 EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS AND ANNUAL REPORT 1992 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution © 1992 International Monetary Fund Price: US$70.00 (US$35.00 to full-time university faculty members and students) Address orders to: International Monetary Fund Publication Services Unit Washington, D.C. 20431 U.S.A. The Library of Congress has cataloged this serial publication as follows: International Monetary Fund. Annual report on exchange arrangements and exchange restrictions. 1979— Continues: International Monetary Fund. Annual report on exchange restrictions, 1950-1978 1. Foreign exchange — Law and legislation — Periodicals. 2. Foreign exchange — Control — Periodicals. I. Title. K4440.A13 157 [date] 341.751 79-644506 ISSN 0250-7366 ISBN 1-55775-308-3 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letter of Transmittal to Members and Governors of the Fund August 10, 1992 Dear Sir: I have the honor to transmit to you a copy of the International Monetary Fund's Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions, 1992, which has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article XIV, Section 3 of the Articles of Agreement. On behalf of the Executive Board, I should like to express our appreciation of the cooperation of the countries in the preparation of the Report. Sincerely yours, /s/ Michel Camdessus Chairman of the Executive Board and Managing Director in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Preface Introduction Afghanistan Albania Algeria Angola Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Aruba Australia Austria Bahamas, The Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belgium and Luxembourg Belize Benin Bhutan Bolivia Botswana Brazil Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia* Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Central African Republic Chad Chile China Colombia Comoros Congo Costa Rica Cote d'lvoire Cyprus Czech and Slovak Federal Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic hcuador Egypt CONTENTS Page vii 1 , El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Ethiopia Fiji Finland France Gabon Gambia, The Germany Ghana Greece Grenada Guatemala Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jordan Kenya Kiribati Korea Kuwait Lao People's Democratic Republic Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Page 154 157 160 163 166 168 173 177 179 182 186 189 192 194 197 200 203 205 208 210 216 220 234 240 243 246 250 254 257 261 265 269 274 275 279 282 284 286 288 290 *The IMF has not received from the Cambodian authorities the information required for a description of the exchange and trade system as of December 31, 1991. Page 3 6 9 14 17 19 23 25 30 32 36 38 45 48 50 52 56 57 60 63 70 73 78 81 85 88 90 94 98 102 Ill 117 119 122 125 129 133 136 139 140 142 145 149 V ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VI CONTENTS Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Mauritania Mauritius Mexico Mongolia Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Norway Oman Pakistan Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Poland Portugal Qatar Romania Rwanda St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Vincent and the Grenadines Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Seychelles Page 293 297 300 304 306 309 313 316 319 322 325 330 333 337 340 344 347 349 352 354 358 362 364 366 373 375 378 381 385 395 401 405 407 411 414 416 418 420 422 424 428 Sierra Leone Singapore Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Tanzania Thailand Togo Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Uganda United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States Uruguay Vanuatu Venezuela Viet Nam Western Samoa Yemen, Republic of Yugoslavia Zaire Zambia Zimbabwe Appendix. EC: Trade Measures Introduced and Eliminated During 1991 Summary Features of Exchange and Trade Systems in Member Countries List of Abbreviations Page 430 433 435 437 440 445 449 456 460 464 466 469 471 477 480 483 487 489 493 500 505 509 511 514 522 524 526 530 533 535 538 542 547 550 557 569 576 Note: The term "country," as used in this publication, does not in all cases refer to a territorial entity that is a state as understood by international law and practice; the term also covers some territorial entities that are not states but for which statistical data are maintained and provided internationally on a separate and independent basis. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PREFACE The Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions has been published annually by the IMF since 1950. It draws on information available to the IMF from a number of sources, including that provided in the course of official visits to member countries, and it has been prepared in close consultation with national authorities. The project is coordinated in the Surveillance Policy Division (formerly the Ex- change Systems Surveillance Division) of the Policy Development and Review De- partment (formerly the Exchange and Trade Relations Department). It draws on the specialized contributions of staff of that Department (for specific countries), with assistance from staff members of the IMF's seven Area Departments, together with staff of other Departments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INTRODUCTION The Report provides a detailed description of the exchange and trade systems of individual member countries, including a nonmetropolitan territory (Hong Kong), for which the United Kingdom has accepted the IMF's Articles of Agreement, and Aruba and the Netherlands Antilles, for which the Kingdom of the Netherlands has accepted the IMF's Articles of Agreement. In general, the description relates to the exchange and trade systems as of the end of 1991, but in appropriate cases reference is made to significant developments that took place in early 1992. A standardized approach has been followed, un- der which the description of each system is broken down into similar headings, and the coverage for each country includes a final section that lists chron- ologically the more significant changes during 1991. The description of the exchange and trade system is not necessarily confined to those aspects involv- ing exchange restrictions or exchange controls. As in previous Reports, questions of definition and ju- risdiction have not been raised, and an attempt has been made to describe exchange and trade systems in their entirety, except for the tariff structure and, in most cases, direct taxes on exports and imports. Thus, the coverage extends to such features as im- port licensing, advance deposit requirements, im- port surcharges, travel taxes, export licensing, and export incentive schemes. Similarly, the section Changes During 1991 includes references to certain developments that may have a direct impact on in- ternational transactions but are not necessarily re- flected in the body of the country descriptions, such as major revisions of import tariffs or developments in regional cooperation. The description given in the section Exchange Ar- rangement is in line with the notification of exchange arrangements that member countries have fur- nished to the IMF under Article IV, Section 2(a). The structure of exchange markets is described, and the official exchange rate is given. The rates quoted are those effective on December 31,1991, unless stated otherwise. Under Administration of Control, some indication is given of the authorities responsible for policy and administration of the controls and of the extent to which their powers are delegated for working purposes. The section on Prescription of Currency describes the requirements affecting the selection of the cur- rency and method of settlement for transactions with other countries. Where a country has con- cluded payments agreements with other countries, the terms of these agreements often lead to pre- scription of the currency for specified categories of payments to and from the countries concerned. The countries with which bilateral payments agree- ments are in force are listed either in the text or in a footnote. Under Resident/Nonresident Accounts, and, in some instances, External Accounts, a description is given of the manner in which the country treats accounts, if any, maintained in its currency by ac- count holders who are not regarded as residents of that country, and the facilities and limitations at- tached to such accounts. Where there is more than one type of nonresident account, the nature and operation of the various types are also described. In the section on Imports and Import Payments, import-licensing requirements are described briefly, and details are given of other requirements im- posed on payments for imports and of any advance deposit requirements. The term "open general li- cense" indicates arrangements whereby certain im- ports or other international transactions are exempt from the restrictive application of licensing require- ments, in contrast to an "individual license," which may be given either freely or restrictively according to administrative decisions. Under Payments for Invisibles, the procedures for permitting payments abroad for current transac- tions in invisibles are described briefly, together with any limitations on the exportation of foreign and domestic bank notes. For some countries that do not impose limitations on payments for invis- ibles, this section is combined with the section on Proceeds from Invisibles (see below). Export-licensing requirements and procedures are described under Exports and Export Proceeds, with an outline of the requirements that may be imposed on the handling of proceeds from exports. The expression "exchange receipts must be surren- dered" indicates that the recipient is required by the regulations to sell any foreign exchange proceeds in return for local currency, usually at the official rate, to the central bank or to a commercial bank or ex- change dealer authorized for this purpose. In some countries, there is a requirement that such ex- change or part thereof be sold in a free market. Under Proceeds from Invisibles, any regulations governing exchange derived from transactions in 1 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 2 INTRODUCTION invisibles are given, and any limitations on the im- portation of foreign and domestic bank notes are described. In the section on Capital, the special arrangements or limitations attached to international capital move- ments are described. Where regulations on foreign capital also cover the income thereon, they are usu- ally dealt with in this section rather than in the sections on Payments for Invisibles and Proceeds from Invisibles. The section on Gold gives a summary of the princi- pal regulations that govern the holding, negotiation, importation, and exportation of gold coins and gold in other forms. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Afghanistan is the Afghani. Da Afghan is tan Bank (the central bank) maintains an official rate, which is defined in terms of the U.S. dollar. The official rate is applied to (1) a few transactions of the Central Government (mainly debt-service payments); and (2) certain foreign currency income earned in Afghan is tan (see sec- tion on Proceeds f rom Invisibles, below). On De- cember 31, 1991, the official exchange rate was Af 50.00 per US$1 buying and Af 51.20 per US$1 selling, respectively. Almost all other official transactions are con- ducted at a commercial rate set by the Government (introduced in July 1988). There also exists a free market in the form of a money bazaar. On Decem- ber 31, 1991, the commercial rate was Af 1,455.00 per US$1 buying and Af 1,450.00 per US$1 selling, respectively. Between May and December 1989, there was a significant simplification of the previously complex multiple exchange rate system. Different mixed rates that had applied to proceeds in convertible currencies for nine principal exports were abol- ished, and proceeds from exports in convertible currencies were shifted to the commercial exchange rate. In December 1989, most public sector transac- tions, with the exception of debt servicing, were also moved to the commercial exchange rate. The com- mercial exchange rate was, however, not closely linked to the free market rate. Between Decem- ber 1989 and February 1991, it was closely linked to the free market rate. However, in February 1991, it was kept at Af 734 per US$1, and subsequently a significant premium developed between the com- mercial and free market exchange rates. The central bank limited sales of foreign exchange to five essen- tial commodities (tea, vegetable oil, medicines, powdered milk, and soap) in March 1991. The offi- cial exchange rate now applies to no more than 10 percent of convertible currency transactions. Ex- change rates for trade under bilateral payments agreements are determined under each agreement (see section on Prescription of Currency, below). The exchange rate applied to transactions of inter- national organizations is set at 80 percent of the level of the commercial exchange rate. Da Afghanistan Bank posts rates for deutsche mark, French francs, Indian rupees, Pakistan rupees, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. It 3 charges commissions ranging from 0.10 percent to 0.375 percent on exchange transactions. There are no arrangements for forward cover against ex- change rate risk operating in the official or the com- mercial banking sector. Administration of Control Foreign exchange transactions are controlled by the Government through Da Afghanistan Bank. No official restrictions are applied to transactions in the free exchange market. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Afghan- istan maintains bilateral payments agreements1 are made in bilateral accounting dollars in accordance with the procedures set forth in these agreements. Some of these have been inactive for several years and others are being phased out. The proceeds from exports of karakul to all countries must be obtained in convertible currencies. There are no other prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports are not subject to license, but import transactions must be registered before orders are placed abroad. The importation of a few items (for example, certain drugs, liquor, arms, and ammuni- tion) are prohibited on grounds of public policy or for security reasons; in some instances, however, special permission to import these goods may be granted. The importation of certain other goods (for example, a few textiles and selected nonessential consumer goods) is also prohibited. There are no quantitative restrictions on other imports. Most bi- lateral agreements, however, specify quantities (and sometimes prices) for commodities to be traded. An annual import program is drawn up by the Ministry of Commerce, covering imports of both the public and private sectors. Adjustments in the public sector import plan are made in the light of changing circumstances. The import plan for the private sector, drawn up on the basis of proposals submitted by the Chamber of Commerce, is indica- tive. The importation of petroleum products is a state monopoly. Bulgaria, China, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, and the former U.S.S.R. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 4 AFGHANISTAN The present customs tariff structure, promul- gated in June 1974, changed little until May 1989. At that time, tariff rates on most consumer items were adjusted upward to 30-50 percent from their former range of about 20-35 percent. Payments for imports through the banking sys- tem to payments agreement countries may usually be made only under letters of credit. Payments to other countries may be made under letters of credit, against bills for collection, or against an undertaking by the importer to import goods at least equivalent to the payment made through the banking system. Except for public sector imports under the govern- ment budget, all importers are required to lodge minimum import deposits with banks when they open letters of credit; in January 1990, the deposit ratios, based on the c . i . f. value of imports, were adjusted downward to 20 percent from 25 percent for essential products and upward to a range of 30- 60 percent from a range of 20-50 percent for other products. Payments for Invisibles The maximum amount that can be taken out of the country for tourist travel abroad is the equiv- alent of $1,000 a trip except for travel to India, for which the limit is the equivalent of $700. On ap- plication, foreign exchange is allocated for business travel and for medical treatment abroad, and the amounts are determined by Da Afghanistan Bank; normally the limits are $15,000 and $2,500, respec- tively. Foreign exchange for other private purposes may be acquired in the bazaar market. The central bank levies a charge of Af 0.75 per US$1 and 1 per- cent of hard currency for permits that approve the exportation of convertible currency by authorized travelers. For medical treatment and business travel, the central bank levies Af 0.75 per US$1. Travelers may take out not more than Af 2,000 in domestic bank notes and Af 50 in coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports (other than gold) are not subject to li- cense, but export transactions must be registered. The exportation of a few products (for example, opium and museum pieces) is prohibited. Other- wise, control is exercised only over exports to bilat- eral agreement countries (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above). Export proceeds from bilateral accounts may be retained in bilateral clearing dollar accounts with Da Afghanistan Bank. These retained proceeds may either be used directly by the original exporter or sold to other importers. In either case, the retained proceeds are converted at the clearing rate applicable to that particular bilat- eral arrangement. In the case of exports to countries trading in con- vertible currencies, export proceeds may be re- tained abroad for 3, 6, or 12 months, depending on the country of destination. During the relevant period, the exporter may use these funds to import any good other than those included on the list of prohibited goods. Alternatively, at the end of the relevant holding period limit, the foreign exchange holdings abroad must be repatriated and held in a foreign currency account with a bank in Afghan- istan or sold at the commercial exchange rate. How- ever, proceeds from seven items (raisins, fresh fruits, animal casings, skins, licorice roots, medici- nal herbs, and wool) have to be surrendered imme- diately at the commercial exchange rate. Proceeds from Invisibles Sixty percent of the foreign currency salaries of foreign employees working in the Afghan public and private sectors must be converted into Afghanis at the official rate. Travelers entering Afghanistan are required to spend a minimum of the equivalent of $26 a day in foreign exchange. They may bring in any amount of foreign currency but must declare it when entering the country if they intend to take out any unspent amount on departure, subject to the above minimum conversion requirement. Travelers may bring in no more than Af 2,000 in domestic bank notes and Af 50 in coins. Capital Foreign investment in Afghanistan requires prior approval and is administered by the Investment Committee. The Foreign and Domestic Private In- vestment Law of 1353 (issued on July 4,1974), which is currently under revision, provides for a number of benefits, which include (1) income tax exemption for four years (six years outside Kabul province), beginning from the date of the first sales of products resulting from the new investment; (2) exemption from import duties on essential imports (mainly of capital goods); (3) exemption from taxes on divi- dends for four years after the first distribution of dividends, but not more than seven years after the approval of the investment; (4) exemption from per- sonal income and corporate taxes on interest on foreign loans that constitute part of an approved investment; (5) exemption from export duties, pro- vided that the products are permitted to be ex- ported; and (6) mandatory purchases by govern- ment agencies and departments of their require- ments from enterprises established under the law ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN 5 as long as prices of such products are not more than 15 percent higher than prices of foreign supplies. The law provides that foreign investment in Afghanistan can take place only through joint ven- tures, with foreign participation not exceeding 49 percent. It also establishes that an investment approved by the Investment Committee shall re- quire no further license in order to operate in Afghanistan. Payments of principal and interest on loans from abroad may be remitted freely to the extent of the legal obligation involved. Profits may be repatriated freely, and capital may be repatriated after five years at an annual rate not exceeding 20 percent of the total registered capital. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell do- mestically gold in any form. Imports and re-exports of gold are permitted, subject to regulations. Ex- ports of gold bullion and silver, as well as of jewelry, require permission from Da Afghanistan Bank and the Ministry of Finance. Commercial exports of gold and silver jewelry and of other articles containing minor quantities of gold or silver do not require a license and may be made freely. Customs duties are payable on imports and exports of silver in any form unless the import or export is made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement February 1. The exchange rate applying to transac- tions of international organizations was depreciated from Af 55 per US$1 to a level that is 80 percent of the commercial exchange rate. February 1. The commercial exchange rate was fixed at Af 734 per US$1. March 1. The central bank limited sales of foreign exchange at the commercial exchange rate to five essential commodities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALBANIA1 (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Albania is the Lek (100 qin- darka = 1 lek). There are two exchange markets: the official and the free market. The official exchange rate of the lek was fixed against the ECU at lek 30 per ECU1 on September 10, 1991, and at lek 62 per ECU1 on January 20,1992. Exchange rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the cross rates between the ECU and the currencies con- cerned in international markets.2 No margins are set between buying and selling rates for the official exchange rate that is applied to official and commer- cial transactions; nor are commissions assessed on these transactions. However, the commercial banks charge a commission of 0.5 percent on purchases or sales of foreign bank notes and traveler's checks. On December 31, 1991, the official buying and selling rate for the U.S. dollar was lek 25 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward exchange cover against exchange risk oper- ating in the official or the commercial banking sector. The sources of foreign exchange for the official exchange market are surrendered foreign exchange, official reserves, and external loans and grants. State enterprises may retain a portion of their for- eign exchange earnings as determined periodically on a case-by-case basis by the Ministries of Finance and Economy in collaboration with the ministry re- sponsible for the enterprise. Foreign exchange at the official exchange rate is allocated to the public sector on a weekly basis by a commission consisting of representatives of the Ministries of Finance, Economy, and Foreign Economic Relations, and the State Bank of Albania.3 All other transactions are channeled through the f ree market, in which the exchange rate is determined by supply and demand. Foreign ex- change earnings retained by private enterprises 1 Albania became a member of the International Monetary Fund on October 15, 1991. 2In practice, the official exchange rate of the lek has been fixed against the U.S. dollar since Janua ry 20,1992 at lek 50 per US$1. Exchange rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the cross rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in international markets. 3Since Janua ry 1, 1992, allocations have been made by the Council of Ministers on a weekly basis. and individuals a f ter paying domestic taxes and expenses, private remittances, and the retained foreign exchange earnings of the state enterprises constitute the source of foreign exchange for the free market. Foreign exchange brought in by visi- tors may also be sold in this market. On Decem- ber 31, 1991, the buying and selling rates in the f ree market were lek 50 per US$1 and lek 53 per US$1, respectively. Since January 1, 1991, the exchange rate of the lek against the U.S.S.R. ruble and for transactions under clearing accounts has been fixed at lek 8 per rub 1, although these agreements have been con- ducted in convertible currencies effective from that date. Administration of Control The authority to amend the exchange control reg- ulations is vested in the Parliament, which approves specific proposals made by the Council of Minis- ters. Exchange controls are administered by the Ministry of Finance, and the authority to change the external value of the currency is vested in the Coun- cil of Ministers. All commercial banks as well as the State Bank of Albania are authorized to conduct foreign exchange transactions and hold accounts abroad. Prescription of Currency Since Janua ry 1,1991, all merchandise trade has been conducted in convertible currencies or, in the case of bilateral payments agreements, through clearing accounts denominated in U.S. dollars, except for trade related to U .S .S .R. ruble balances or contracted in the U.S.S.R. ruble and ou ts tand- ing at the end of 1990. At the end of 1991, Albania maintained bilateral clearing arrangements with 7 countries;4 bilateral trade agreements with 12 countries;5 and agreements on economic, indus- trial, trade, and financial cooperation with 10 countries.6 Since January 1, 1991, prices of all 4Bulgaria, China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Romania, and Viet Nam. 5Algeria, Austria, Belgium, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, Finland, Hungary, Islamic Republic of Iran, Netherlands, Poland, Spain, and Sweden. 6Bulgaria, China, Cuba, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Ro- mania, the former U.S.S.R. and Yugoslavia. 6 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALBANIA 7 products imported and exported under bilateral trade and economic agreements have been based on international prices. Resident and Nonresident Accounts All enterprises are permitted to hold foreign currency accounts with the domestic banking sys- tem and abroad, but individuals are allowed to hold foreign currency accounts only with the banking system. There are no specific restrictions on withdrawals of foreign exchange f rom foreign exchange accounts by residents for t rans fer abroad; in practice, however, the approval f rom the Ministry of Finance is required for with- drawals in excess of $500.7 Nonresidents may hold accounts in Albania in domestic or foreign curren- cies. There are no specific restrictions on with- drawals from these accounts or on transferr ing abroad the balances held in these accounts. Inter- est at international rates is paid on foreign cur- rency accounts. Imports and Exports All state and private enterprises, individuals, and juridical persons are free to engage in foreign trade activities. The lists of products subject to export and import licenses are issued by the Ministry of For- eign Economic Relations. At the end of 1991, private and public sector importers were required to obtain licenses to import 17 broad categories of items. For these items, if importation was not banned, private importers could obtain an import license upon pre- sentation of a contract with a foreign entity or firm. The importation of consumer goods by the private sector did not require a license. Public sector im- porters could obtain a license for goods subject to licensing requirement after presentation of a con- tract with foreign partners, justification of the need to import, and demonstration of ability to pay in foreign currency; in practice, however, these re- quirements were not enforced. Nearly all major cat- egories of exports (42 categories) were subject to licensing requirements. Applicants for import and export licenses must pay a service charge of $5 for each license; in practice, this charge was not collected. Since December 2,1991, customs duties or tariffs have applied equally to public and private sector imports, ranging from 5 percent for imports of raw materials, intermediate goods, and foodstuffs to 7Depending on resource constraints, even smaller with- drawals could be subject to the approval of the State Bank of Albania. 30 percent for imports of industrial and capital goods. Payment for and Proceeds from Invisibles Invisible transactions by individual persons through the free market are not restricted. Pay- ments for invisibles by state enterprises and with balances outstanding in clearing accounts must be approved by the Council of Ministers. Proceeds from invisibles earned by state enterprises are sub- ject to surrender requirements. Persons traveling abroad are required to fill out forms indicating the type of currency and the amount they are taking out and attach a permit from the State Bank that autho- rizes its exportation. Individuals holding foreign currency are obliged to declare it to the Ministry of Finance and to obtain permission from the Ministry before exporting it. The amounts permitted to be exported are determined on a case-by-case basis. The exportation and importation of domestic cur- rency are prohibited. The amount of foreign ex- change that can be purchased for travel or by emi- grants is subject to approval on a case-by-case basis. Capital The "Principal Constitutional Provisions'7 ap- proved by Parliament in April 1991 (pending the completion of a new draft constitution) removed the 1976 constitutional ban on foreign borrowing. At present, there are no laws regulating portfolio or foreign direct investment by residents. While in- ward transfers generally do not require approval, outward transfers generally do. A decree approved by Parliament in July 1990 set out the conditions for establishing joint ventures involving foreign capital. All requests must be ap- proved by the Council of Ministers through the ministry covering the relevant sector, except for those by financial institutions, which are reviewed by the State Bank of Albania. There are no specific restrictions on foreign direct investment by joint ventures in Albania. Joint ventures are required to open a foreign currency account in Albania and are permitted to borrow abroad. Remittances of profits after meeting expenses and taxes in Albania are permitted through the free market. Profits of joint ventures could be subject to tax rates of up to 50 per- cent, depending on the activity of the enterprise; profits are exempted from all taxes during the first two years of operation for long-term (at least ten years) investment projects. Enterprises that rein- vest profits in Albania will be eligible for reduced tax rates. Nonresidents are prohibited from purchasing land or houses but are allowed to rent or lease them ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 8 ALBANIA in Albania. Transfers abroad of proceeds from sales of inherited property are permitted only under spe- cial consular treaties and arrangements. gold holdings. Gold may be exported only by the State Bank of Albania, Gold Changes During 1991 All transactions in gold have to be effected through the State Bank. There are no restrictions on No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Algeria is the Algerian Dinar. Daily buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, and other specified cur- rencies1 are established by the Bank of Algeria partly on the basis of a relationship between the dinar and a composite of currencies. The currencies included in the composite and their weights take into account the relative importance of payments, including capital transactions, that are made in these currencies. The Bank of Algeria frequently adjusts this rate to reflect its domestic economic objectives. A margin of DA 0.015 has been estab- lished between the buying and selling rates of the dinar in terms of the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1991, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were DA 21.3844 per US$1 and DA 21.3994 per US$1, respectively. Foreign exchange reserves are centralized in the Bank of Algeria; authorized banks must clear their foreign currency position with their foreign corre- spondents at the end of each day but, under certain conditions, they are permitted to hold cover for doc- umentary credits outside Algeria. Under Regulation 91/07, residents may obtain from their commercial banks forward cover against exchange rate risk in the form of forward contracts to buy or sell foreign exchange. Payment for future delivery of foreign exchange may be effected either at the date the contract is made, in which case the spot exchange rate applies, or at the time the foreign exchange is delivered, in which case a forward rate quoted by the Bank of Algeria applies. The Bank of Algeria quotes three-month and three-year forward exchange rates for the U.S. dollar and the French franc. Administration of Control The Bank of Algeria has general jurisdiction over exchange control. It formu la tes exchange leg- islation and regulations and is responsible for their application by the authorized banks. Au- thority over many exchange control procedures has been delegated to five commercial banks and the Postal Administration. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which no pay- ments agreements are in force are made in convertible currencies.2 Payments under foreign supply contracts (contrats de fourniture) can be made in either the cur- rency in use at the headquarters of the supplier or that of the country of origin of the merchandise, except that transactions with Morocco can be effected in U.S. dollars through special clearing accounts main- tained at the central banks of the respective countries. Foreign holders of servicing contracts are required to open local nonresident accounts to which payments are made by the Algerian contracting party; such accounts must be closed within six months of the end of the contract, beyond which date outward transfers of the funds or their use for purposes unrelated to the contracts are not permitted. Nonresident Accounts Most nonresident accounts are foreign accounts in convertible dinars or internal nonresident ac- counts. There are at present four types of accounts, as follows: Individual Suspense Accounts may be opened with- out authorization and may be credited with pay- ments from any country. Balances in such accounts opened before January 1,1975 by nonresident natu- ral persons of foreign nationality have been released for transfer abroad. Foreign Accounts in Foreign Currency. Under Reg- ulation 91/02, juridical and natural persons of for- eign nationality may open accounts denominated in the convertible currency of their choice. Such ac- counts may be credited with (1) bank notes and other means of payment denominated in foreign currency and (2) other dinar-denominated funds that meet all requirements for tranfers abroad. They may be debited without restriction (1) to make trans- fers abroad; (2) through withdrawals of foreign bank notes to export; and (3) to make dinar pay- ments in Algeria. These accounts pay interest and may not show a net debit position. Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 2 Specified noncommercial settlements with Morocco and Tunisia are channeled through a dirham account at the Bank of Morocco and an account in Tunisian dinars at the Central Bank of Tunisia. 9 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 10 ALGERIA Final Departure Accounts may be opened, without prior authorization, in the name of any natural per- son residing in Algeria, not of Algerian nationality, who intends to leave Algeria to return to his country of origin. These accounts may be credited freely with an amount equivalent to the holdings on Octo- ber 20,1963 in the account of the person concerned; with the proceeds from sales of real estate of the account holder, provided that the funds are paid directly by a ministerial officer; with the proceeds of the sale of securities through a bank; and with any other payments, up to DA 2,000. These accounts may be debited without prior approval for certain payments in Algeria on behalf of the account holder. Outward transfers require individual approval. Foreign Currency Accounts (comptes devises) may be opened by natural and juridical Algerian nationals resident in Algeria or by nonresident Algerian na- tionals who have resided for more than six months in a foreign country. Such accounts may be freely credited with (1) book transfers of convertible cur- rencies from abroad using either postal or banking facilities, (2) imported convertible foreign curren- cies that have been declared at the time of the ac- count holder's entry into the country, and (3) domestic bank-to-bank book transfers. The ac- counts may be freely debited for book transfers abroad but only through the banking system; they may also be debited for purchases of dinars, for book transfers in dinars, and for purchases of con- vertible foreign currencies to be physically exported by the account holder. The interest rate payable on deposits in these accounts is fixed quarterly by the Bank of Algeria. Since 1990, economic entities have also been able to open foreign currency accounts for receiving and making foreign currency transfers, including the retained proportion of their export proceeds. They may transfer funds in these ac- counts to other foreign currency accounts or use them to make payments in Algeria or to make for- eign payments for goods and services pertaining to their business. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Certain imports are prohibited regardless of origin. All regulations requiring prior authorization to import and those controlling foreign exchange pay- ments for imports have been abolished. Any juridi- cial and natural persons licensed under the Com- mercial Register (including concessionaries and wholesalers) may import goods that are not pro- hibited or restricted without any prior authoriza- tion, provided that the importer is in posession of foreign exchange resources. All these imports are subject to obligatory domiciliation at an authorized intermediary bank, which an importer must estab- lish by submitting a commercial contract or pro forma invoice. Import payments may be made only through the domiciled bank, which effects pay- ments in foreign exchange and debits the importer's account with corresponding amounts in dinars val- ued at the official exchange rate. Before import pay- ments are effected, domiciled banks may require from the importer a deposit in dinars up to the full value of the imports. Importers maintaining foreign currency accounts at authorized intermediary banks may use them to pay for imports. Payments for imports of gold, other precious metals, and pre- cious stones must be made from foreign currency accounts. External borrowing by importers for import fi- nancing purposes must be arranged through the authorized intermediary banks. External borrowing may not exceed the import value. For imports of less than $2 million value, the intermediary bank can combine import orders to seek a combined financ- ing. Imports of food products and other consumer goods (biens courants), raw materials, semifinished goods, and capital goods used by essential indus- tries are encouraged to be financed with official lines of credit. For imports not eligible for official financing, and for those imports that are eligible for official lines of credit but for which the available lines have been totally drawn, banks are instructed to obtain credits with a maturity of at least 3 years for capital goods and equipment and at least 18 months for other inputs. Short-term commercial credits may be obtained for wage goods. Imports with other financing arrangements must be re- ferred to the External Loans Subcommittee of the Bank of Algeria for review. Imports financed from foreign currency accounts are exempted from the above financing requirements, and payments from these accounts do not require prior review or ap- proval by the External Loans Subcommittee of the Bank of Algeria. Except as otherwise indicated by the Bank of Al- geria, down payments may not exceed 15 percent of the total value of an import operation. In accordance with Law No. 80-07 of August 3,1980, imports must be insured by Algerian insurers. When a public agency, public enterprise, or ministry is effecting expenditures for imports deemed to be urgent or exceptional, the bank may effect payments before exchange and trade control formalities have been completed. Special regulations apply to imports that do not require the use of official foreign exchange (importa- tions sans paiements). Capital goods and spare parts, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA 11 and personal effects with values of less than DA 30,000 may be imported without any reporting requirements regarding the source of the foreign exchange used, but applicable taxes must be paid. The list of items that may be imported is prepared periodically by ministerial decree; it excludes finished consumer goods, except for personal effects. During 1990, a system of concessionaries and wholesalers was introduced to increase the avail- ability and standardization of imported goods for resale. These entities are permitted, by the Council for Money and Credit, to import and resell items in Algeria relating to their approved activity without restriction. Profits earned from foreign investment may be freely repatriated. When more than two concessionaries or wholesalers are operating in an activity, all imports must be channeled through these concessionaries or wholesalers, whether or not they use official foreign exchange. The initial list of goods eligible for importation by these entities includes motor vehicles and motorcycles, materials used in agriculture, fishing, electric and electronic household appliances, heating and air conditioning equipment, pharmaceutical and child care prod- ucts, and most spare parts. Payments for Invisibles The Bank of Algeria must approve all payments for invisibles to all countries. When supporting docu- ments are presented, however, approval may be granted by authorized banks, or sometimes by the Postal Administration, either freely or up to specified limits for certain payments, such as (1) those relating to approved trade transactions and maritime con- tracts, (2) business or official travel expenses, (3) transfers of salaries and wages, (4) educational expenses, and (5) advertising expenses. For payments for which the approval authority has not been dele- gated, the Bank of Algeria or the Ministry of Economy must authorize the granting of exchange. Public and private sector national exporters may open EDAC ac- counts (that is, exporters' convertible dinar accounts) denominated in convertible dinars, which can be credited with up to 100 percent of repatriated pro- ceeds and be used for any purpose. Residents of other countries working in Algeria, under technical cooperation programs, for public enterprises and agencies or for certain mixed com- panies may transfer abroad a percentage of their net salaries. Foreign exchange allocations for tourism abroad by Algerian residents were suspended in Octo- ber 1986. Residents requiring medical treatment abroad are entitled to a foreign exchange allowance based on need. Emigrant Algerian workers who take their vacations in Algeria may, when returning abroad, re-export foreign exchange that they brought in and duly declared on their arrival in Algeria. Pilgrims traveling to Saudi Arabia receive an al- lowance in Saudi Arabian riyals; the amount is fixed for each pilgrimage and may be furnished in the form of checks that may be cashed on arrival for those traveling by air or by sea. Resident travelers may take out Algerian dinar bank notes up to DA 200 a person. Foreign nonresident travelers may also re-export any foreign currency they declared upon entry. Travel tickets that are bought by non- residents for travel abroad must be paid for with foreign exchange from abroad. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Certain exports are prohibited regardless of destination. All proceeds from exports of crude and refined hydrocarbons, by-products from gas, and mineral products must be surrendered. Exporters of other products may retain a specified proportion of their export earnings in a foreign currency ac- count, as follows: Algerian tourist operators, 20 per- cent; exporters of other agricultural and fisheries products, 50 percent; and exporters of major ser- vices and exporters of other products, 100 percent. Entities may use these funds for imports or other payments pertaining to their business or they may transfer the funds to another foreign currency ac- count. Nonhydrocarbon exports benefit from cer- tain incentive measures granted by the Govern- ment, including, for example, (1) exemption from the tax on industrial and commercial profits and the flat-rate levy on the wage bill, and (2) export promo- tion assistance (AMPEX). Sales on consignment must be authorized by the Ministry of Economy and must always be reg- istered before customs clearance. Export proceeds must be repa tr ia ted within 120 days of collection. Those petroleum companies that hold mineral rights must repa tr ia te to Algeria the proceeds f rom their exports of hydrocarbons, calculated on the basis of a contractual price for each barrel, which is fixed by agreement with the companies concerned. For the petroleum company that holds mineral rights, however, there are d i f f e r e nt re- patriation requirements. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated and surrendered. There are no restrictions on the impor- tation of foreign bank notes, coins (except gold ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 12 ALGERIA coins), checks, and letters of credit, but nonresi- dents, including those of Algerian nationality, must declare such holdings when they enter Algeria. Res- ident travelers may reimport Algerian dinar bank notes up to DA 200 a person. Nonresident travelers are not permitted to bring in Algerian bank notes. Capital Residents are obliged to repatriate and surrender capital assets (or the sales proceeds thereof) held or acquired outside Algeria. Capital transfers to any destination abroad are subject to individual license. The Committee for External Borrowing admin- istered by the Bank of Algeria must approve in advance all borrowing abroad or from nonresidents. The Law of Money and Credit of April 14, 1990 provides for state guarantees in respect of borrow- ing for investments in accordance with the interna- tional codes and agreements ratified by Algeria in all areas except those expressly reserved for the state. Repatriation in respect of the sale or liquida- tion proceeds from invested foreign capital is guar- anteed. The law also stipulates that profit remit- tances on such investments may be permitted, provided that documentation requirements on tax payments are met. Tax facilities may be granted, and investments of more than DA 5 million may be given exclusive rights in a specified geographic area and may be accorded tariff protection. Remittances of profits and retransfers of capital are permitted only in respect of investments approved under the code. The law on joint ventures with foreign com- panies, which came into effect in April 1982, provides foreign partners with a guarantee of fair return on investment, tax exemptions of up to five years on industrial and commercial profits, reduced taxes on reinvested profits, and the repatriation of earnings and royalties in respect of transfers of technology. Algerian banks offer three-year interest-free bonds in dinars, which entitle the subscriber to exchange 20 percent of the placement value an- nually into a convertible currency at the official ex- change rate. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Algeria for numismatic purposes. Under Ordi- nance No. 70-6 of January 16, 1970, unworked gold for industrial and professional use is distributed by the Agence nationale pour la distribution et la trans- formation de Tor et des autres metaux precieux (AGENOR). This agency is also authorized to pur- chase in Algeria, and to hold, process, and dis- tribute any other precious metal, and, within the exchange control regulations, to import and export any precious metal, including gold. Gold for use by dentists and goldsmiths is imported by AGENOR un- der import licenses issued by the Ministry of Econ- omy and the Bank of Algeria. Gold and other pre- cious metals are included in the list of items importable by concessionaries. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement August 14. Regulation 91/07 was promulgated, permitting residents to obtain from their banks for- ward cover against exchange rate risk in the form of forward contracts to buy or sell foreign exchange. Payment for fu ture delivery of foreign exchange may be effected either at the contract date, in which case the spot exchange rate would apply, or at the date of delivery of the foreign exchange, in which case a forward rate quoted by the Bank of Algeria would apply. December 1. The August 14, 1991 regulation was supplemented with the introduction of three- month and three-year forward exchange rates for the U.S. dollar and the French franc. Nonresident Accounts February 20. Juridical and natural persons of for- eign nationality were authorized to open foreign exchange accounts in a convertible currency of their choice. These accounts might be credited with (1) transfers from accounts in convertible dinars (CEDAC accounts); (2) bank notes and other means of payment denominated in foreign currency; and (3) other dinar-denominated funds that meet all requirements for transfers abroad. They might be debited without restriction (1) to make transfers abroad; (2) to credit foreign exchange or CEDAC accounts; (3) through withdrawals of foreign bank notes to export; and (4) to make dinar payments in Algeria. These accounts pay interest and may not show a net debit position. Imports and Import Payments April 1. All regulations requiring prior authoriza- tion to import and those controlling foreign ex- change payments for imports were abolished. All registered juridical and natural persons were per- mitted to import goods that are not prohibited or restricted, without any prior authorization, pro- vided that the importer possesses foreign exchange resources. All these liberalized imports were sub- jected to obligatory domiciliation at an authorized ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA 13 intermediary bank, which the importer must estab- lish by submitting a commercial contract or pro forma invoice. Import payments must be made only through the domiciled bank, which is to effect pay- ments in foreign exchange and to debit the im- porter's account with corresponding amounts in dinars, valued at the official exchange rate. Before import payments are effected, domiciled banks may require from the importer a deposit in dinars up to the full value of the imports. Importers maintaining foreign currency accounts at authorized foreign in- termediary banks may use them to pay for imports. Payments for imports of gold, other precious met- als, and precious stones must be made from foreign currency accounts. External borrowing by importers for import fi- nancing purposes was required to be arranged through the authorized intermediary banks. Exter- nal borrowing may not exceed the import value. For imports of less than $2 million in value, the inter- mediary bank can combine import orders to seek a combined financing. Imports of food products and other consumer goods (biens coumnts), raw mate- rials, semifinished goods, and capital goods used by essential industries were encouraged to be fi- nanced with official lines of credit. For imports not eligible for official financing, and for those imports that are eligible for official lines of credit but for which the available lines have been totally drawn, banks were instructed to obtain credits with a matu- rity of at least 3 years for capital goods and equip- ment and at least 18 months for other inputs. Short- term commercial credits may be obtained for wage goods. Imports with other financing arrangements must be referred to the External Loans Subcommit- tee of the Bank of Algeria for review. Imports fi- nanced from foreign currency accounts were ex- empted from the above financing requirements, and payments from these accounts would not re- quire prior review or approval by the External Loans Subcommittee of the Bank of Algeria. Proceeds from Invisibles April 1. The requirements that nonresident Al- gerian nationals and foreigners must convert foreign exchange equivalent to at least DA 3,500 or DA 1,000, respectively, on arrival in Algeria were revoked. Capital February 24. Algerian banks began to offer three- year interest-free bonds in dinars, which entitle the subscriber to exchange 20 percent of the placement value annually into a convertible currency at the official exchange rate (the first offering was made on March 30). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANGOLA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Angola is the New Kwanza (plu- ral New Kwanzas), which replaced the Kwanza at par on September 25, 1990. Since May 1976, the external value of the new kwanza has been pegged to the U.S. dollar, and on December 28, 1991, the official exchange rate was set at NKz 180 per US$1. This rate applies to official transactions, transactions of the traditional export sector (oil and diamond sectors), and raw material imports. In addition, the following three multiple exchange rates are in effect resulting from the imposition of surcharges and the operation of the free exchange market: (1) the rate of NKz 550 per US$1 (the official rate plus a surcharge of NKz 370 per US$1) applying to other imports; (2) the rate of NKz 550 per US$1 (the official rate plus a premium of NKz 370 per US$1 paid by the National Bank of Angola (NBA)), which applies to nontraditional exports; and (3) the floating ex- change rate in the free exchange market, which applies to purchases and sales of foreign exchange, checks, traveler's checks, payment orders, and other instruments used in international transactions by single individuals, organizations, firms, and tourist operators, and to sales of foreign exchange for travel and special expenses or transfers abroad. On December 31, 1991, the rates in the free market were NKz 970 per US$1 (buying) and NKz 1,000 per US$1 (selling). Exchange rates for 17 other curren- cies1 are established using the weekly average cross rates of the currencies concerned on the New York, Frankfurt, Paris, London, Brussels, and Zurich mar- kets on the basis of a formula that projects exchange rate changes in the following week. This formula takes into account the changes in rates during the preceding week. Two tables of exchange rates are published weekly, one for transactions between the NBA and the commercial banks and another for transactions between the commercial banks and economic agents. The NBA applies a margin of 0.25 percent to both its buying and selling transactions with eco- nomic agents. Buying and selling margins for cash transactions are set at 3-4 percent, depending on the currency. There are no arrangements for for- 1 Austrian shillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, ECUs, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. ward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The Law of the National Bank of Angola and the Financial Institutions Law promulgated on April 20, 1991 established the central bank, the NBA, and the commercial banks as the financial institutions that are legally authorized to conduct foreign exchange transactions. The NBA has delegated authority to banks to license and execute permitted foreign ex- change invisible transactions. Commercial banks and foreign exchange dealers licensed by the NBA are authorized to deal in foreign exchange at the floating exchange rate. The NBA operates in the floating rate foreign exchange market only in its dealings with financial institutions. All imports and exports are subject to licensing. Foreign exchange transactions are effected through the NBA's foreign exchange department, the Banco de Poupanga e Credito (BPC), and the Banco do Comercio e Industria (BCI), of which the latter two are commercial banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange under the Law of the NBA and the Finan- cial Institutions Law. The NBA's commercial branch is a transitional arrangement established to make possible the transition from the former centralized banking system to the present two-tier banking sys- tem. Accordingly, the NBA serves both as a central bank and as an authorized bank for external transac- tions. Arrears are maintained with respect to exter- nal payments. Prescription of Currency The NBA prescribes the currencies to be used for imports, depending upon the country with which transactions are to be carried out. The currencies are usually those of the exporting countries or the U.S. dollar. Bilateral settlement arrangements, which do not contain bilateral payments features, are maintained with Brazil, Portugal, and Spain. These arrangements utilize single accounts through which monthly balances can be used without re- striction for transactions with third parties. Resident and Nonresident Accounts With the prior authorization of the NBA, resi- dent enterprises in Angola may maintain foreign exchange accounts. Transactions through these 14 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANGOLA 15 accounts are sub ject to the prior authorization of the NBA. Nonresidents may maintain accounts in new kwanzas, provided that the funds are trans- fe r red f rom abroad. Former residents may also hold accounts in new kwanzas, but they may with- draw funds on these accounts only to cover ex- penses during their stay in Angola. Nonresidents with established businesses in Angola may hold foreign exchange accounts subject to the prior au- thorization of the NBA. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to licensing, with limits established under the import plan and subject to the availability of foreign exchange, except imports of spare parts, accessories or similar goods, medicines, equipment, and raw materials, up to a quarterly max- imum of $50,000 (or its equivalent) an importer; li- censes are expeditiously issued by the NBA. Licenses are granted only to registered enterprises of proven technical, commercial, and financial capacity and are issued on the basis of a foreign exchange allocation and restricted to imports of goods for which the enter- prise is registered. To obtain a license, enterprises must present to the sectoral ministries and the Minis- try of Commerce offers of three foreign suppliers. The approved offer may be considered for an import li- cense application, which, in turn, must be approved by the same ministries. Import licenses specify the importer; name(s) of the supplier; the intermediary; the product by its Brussels Tariff Nomenclature classi- fication, volume, and unit price; the transport and insurance companies; costs; method of payment; and currency of payment. Once the importation of mer- chandise is approved, the NBA issues the credit docu- ment, with a copy for the applicant of the import license, stating that the goods are to be examined by international agencies before shipment to Angola for purposes of checking their compliance with interna- tional standards for merchandise transactions. Li- censes for imports of goods are valid for 180 days after issuance and may be extended once for an additional 180 days. If an import transaction is not fully effected during this period, the transaction that was originally considered to be a merchandise transaction is then deemed to have become a capital transaction. A li- cense fee of 0.1 percent of the import value is levied. Import licenses are also required for statistical pur- poses even if foreign exchange is not requested. Im- ports of capital goods must be financed partly by medium-term foreign financing. Payments for Invisibles Service contracts with nonresidents are subject to licensing. Preferential treatment is given to domestic air and sea transportation, and imports not insured domestically are approved only in exceptional cases. Exchange allowances for private travel are granted only in certain cases. A maximum monthly allowance of $2,500 is granted to residents who are abroad for up to 90 days for educational, scientific, or cultural pur- poses. Up to the equivalent of $5,000 may be granted for purposes of medical treatment abroad at the free market exchange rate. Up to the equivalent of $1,500 a month may be granted to Angolans or foreigners residing abroad who are direct ascendants or descen- dants and financially dependent on residents in An- gola, provided (1) they are minor descendants under 18 years old or, if legal age, demonstrate they are students or incapable of working; or (2) they are as- cendants over 60 years old or, if younger, demonstrate they are incapable of working. Education travel ex- penses are normally expected to be covered by schol- arships, but an additional foreign exchange equiv- alent to NKz 16,000 a year at the free market exchange rate may be granted. Resident nationals who wish to travel abroad may purchase foreign exchange at the banks under the following rules: (1) a child up to the age of 16, up to $500 for neighboring countries or up to $1,000 for other countries with the presentation of air ticket and passport containing indication of the amount and date of the sale; and (2) a person older then 16, up to $1,500 for neighboring countries and up to $3,000 for other countries. Firms may purchase foreign exchange to cover expenses of their employees abroad for trips not exceeding 30 days, with the fol- lowing daily limits: (1) chairman or equivalent, $350; (2) vice chairman or equivalent, $300; and (3) director of departments or equivalent, $200. If a person re- turns from his trip before 30 days, the remaining foreign exchange must be resold to a financial institu- tion. All these transactions take place at the free mar- ket exchange rate. When departing from Angola, nonresidents visit- ing the country for tourism or on business are per- mitted to purchase up to 50 percent of foreign ex- change they sold to an institution accredited to deal in foreign exchange on presentation of the corre- sponding sales voucher. The exportation of domes- tic currency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Expor ts of certain goods are prohibited .2 Re- exports of goods other than equipment and 2Arms and ammunition, ethnological collections, ships, os- trich products, cattle, and ivory products. Special export regimes apply to aircraft, animals and animal products, historical objects, minerals and mineral products, toxic substances, cotton, rice, pork meat, coffee, cereals, wood and wood products, tobacco, and oil. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 16 ANGOLA personal belongings are also prohibited. Restric- tions also apply to the exportation of products that are in short domestic supply. All other exports are subject to licensing. Licenses may be obtained by registered enterprises, and proceeds must be col- lected within 30 days of shipment and surrendered to the NBA. Certain foreign enterprises (currently oil companies) are required to surrender only a pro- portion of export receipts and may retain the re- mainder to cover production costs. Proceeds from Invisibles Service contracts with nonresidents are subject to the approval of the NBA. The sectoral ministries supervise the execution of contracts. All proceeds must be surrendered to the NBA within 30 days of receipt. There are no limits on the amount of foreign bank notes or traveler's checks in foreign exchange a person may bring into the country, but the amount exceeding the equivalent of $10,000 must be declared upon ar- rival. Residents are permitted to leave the country with foreign exchange in excess of $5,000 only if they present the documents on purchase of foreign ex- change; nonresidents must present such documents when the amount exceeds $10,000. The importation of domestic currency is prohibited. Capital All capital transfers are subject to licensing and control. The Foreign Investment Law of July 1988 prohibits foreign investment in strategic sectors.3 Direct investments in the oil sector are encouraged. Dividends and capital may be repatriated upon liq- 3Defense, law and order, education, health, utilities, com- munications, and transport infrastructure. uidation, with the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance. Transfers of personal capital, such as in- heritances, dowries, savings from wages and sal- aries, and proceeds from sales of personal property, are permitted only on a case-by-case basis. Gold Imports and exports of gold are the monopoly of the NBA. Residents are permitted to hold gold only in the form of jewelry. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangements March 15. The official exchange rate was devalued from NKz 29.92 per US$1 to NKz 59.24 per US$1. July 20. Commercial banks and licensed foreign exchange dealers were authorized to deal in foreign exchange. November 18. The official exchange rate was de- valued from NKz 59.24 per US$1 to NKz 90 per US$1 and was applied to official transactions and transactions in the traditional export sector (oil and diamonds). In addition, multiple exchange rates were introduced, as follows: (1) the rate of NKz 180 per US$1 (the official rate plus a surcharge of NKz 90 per US$1), which is applied to raw material imports; (2) the rate of NKz 550 per US$1 (the official rate plus a surcharge of NKz 460 per US$1), which is applied to nonpriority imports, nontraditional ex- ports, and some invisibles; and (3) a freely deter- mined market exchange rate, which applies to all other transactions (NKz 780 per US$1 at the close of business on this date). December 28. The official exchange rate was de- valued to NKz 180 per US$1, and the surcharge of NKz 90 per US$1 was eliminated. The surcharge of NKz 460 per US$1 was reduced to NKz 370 per US$1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Accounts The currency of Antigua and Barbuda is the Eastern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eas tern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 per US$1. On December 31, 1991, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the ECCB in its transactions with commercial banks were EC$2.6949 and EC$2.7084, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. There are no arrangemen ts for forward cover against ex- change risk operating in the official or the com- mercial banking sector. Antigua and Barbuda formally accepted the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from November 22, 1983. Administration of Control Exchange control applies to all currencies and is administered by the Ministry of Finance. Export licenses are required for a range of products, par- ticularly those subject to export duties. Import li- censes are issued by the Collector of Customs in the Ministry of Finance and by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Commerce, depending on the type of commodity. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARicoM)2 must be made either in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned or in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Eastern Carib- bean dollars. Settlements involving South African currency are not permitted. irThe Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Anguilla, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Ja- maica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. Exports to Jamaica are settled in U.S. dollars. External accounts may be opened for nonresi- dents with the approval of the Ministry of Finance and may be maintained in any currency. With the approval of the Ministry of Finance, such accounts may also be opened by resident individuals or firms, especially in tourist-oriented industries or in export trades where most receipts are in foreign currency and a large portion of inputs is imported or is financed in foreign currency. External accounts can be credited with receipts from sales of merchan- dise (whether from export-oriented or local produc- tion) or from remittances. Commercial banks are required to report external accounts operations to the Ministry of Finance on a monthly basis. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Most goods may be freely imported under open general licenses granted by the Ministry of Trade. Certain other commodities require individual li- censes, unless imported from CARICOM countries. Antigua and Barbuda follows the CARICOM rules of origin adopted in June 1981. Payments for autho- rized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence. Imports that are exempt from import duties in- clude basic foods and agricultural imports. All other exemptions for machinery, equipment, and raw ma- terials are granted on a case-by-case basis and gen- erally under the Fiscal Incentives Act, 1975 and the Hotel Incentives Act. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized im- ports are not restricted. Upon presentation of sup- porting documents, and with the authorization of the Ministry of Finance, residents may purchase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$750 a trip outside the ECCB area; however, this limit may be exceeded with permission from the Ministry of Finance. In terms of CARICOM traveler's checks (which are denominated in Trinidad and Tobago currency), the basic allowance is TT$500 a trip for holiday travel, TT$2,500 a trip for business, and TT$3,000 a trip for medical reasons. Official authori- zation is required for amounts exceeding these limits. Foreign exchange allowances for education, 17 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 18 ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA family maintenance, medical treatment, and remit- tances of earnings by foreign workers are approved on a case-by-case basis. Profits on foreign direct investment may be remitted in full, subject to con- firmation by the Commission of Inland Revenue of registration for corporate income tax purposes. There are no limits on the amount of local currency that may be taken out of the country. Exports and Export Proceeds No export licenses are required for certain com- modities to any destination. Surrender of export proceeds is not required, and re-exports are not subject to any tax if they take place within the bonded area. Proceeds from Invisibles Travelers to Antigua and Barbuda may freely bring in notes and coins denominated in Eastern Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. For- eign currency coins are not normally exchanged. Checks and drafts in U.S. and Canadian currency can be tendered up to US$1,000 without restriction; for amounts over US$1,000, Ministry of Finance approval must be obtained. Levy exemptions for transfers, especially for charity purposes, are usu- ally granted. Capital There are no legislated restrictions on capital movements. Foreign investment is granted the same incentives as domestic investment under the Fiscal Incentives Law and the Hotel Incentives Act. Large transfers abroad for investment purposes can be phased over time by the Financial Secretary. Gold There are no restrictions on the importation of gold. Changes During 1991 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Argentina is the Austral (plural Australes), the external value of which is pegged to the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1991, the middle rate of the austral in terms of the U.S. dollar was A 9,985 per US$1 (selling). Transactions are allowed in certain other curren- cies,1 with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on markets abroad. Swap transactions and forward exchange opera- tions are permitted under a regime introduced on December 20, 1989. The currency of transactions and rates may be freely negotiated. Argentina formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 14, 1968. Administration of Control All exchange transactions must be carried out through entities authorized expressly for this pur- pose. These authorized entities include banks, ex- change agencies, exchange houses, exchange of- fices, and financial companies; each of these types of institution is subject to separate regulations. Credit institutions and mortgage savings and loan companies may effect certain foreign exchange transactions on the same terms as financial com- panies. Arrears are maintained with respect to ex- ternal payments. tion of Argentina's payments for Bolivia's natural gas exports is made into a non-interest-bearing ac- count at the Central Bank of Argentina; it is used solely for purchases of goods and services of Argen- tine origin for the construction of the Rio Grande- Campo Santa Cruz gas pipeline, the gas treatment plant at Naranjillos, and the Palmar Grande-Camiri highway. Argentina maintains reciprocal credit ar- rangements with Bulgaria, Cuba, Hungary, Poland, and the former U.S.S.R. by means of special ac- counts in each central bank through which transac- tions are settled. Transactions with other countries must be settled in freely usable currencies. The Central Bank of Argentina maintains a special ac- count with Romania under which payments for im- ports of equipment and capital goods from Romania (settled before September 23, 1989 when the agree- ment expired) are offset by receipts from exports of certain products from Argentina. Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may open accounts in australes and in foreign exchange in the name of any nonresi- dent, provided that the accounts are credited with remittances of convertible currencies only. Balances on nonresident accounts may be used freely for any purpose, in Argentina or abroad. Transfers be- tween accounts may be effected freely, except for export payments. Prescription of Currency Imports and Import Payments All payments between Argentina and Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made through accounts maintained by the Central Bank of Argentina and the central banks concerned, under reciprocal credit agree- ments within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Pursuant to the Presidential Declaration and Energy Integration Protocol signed with the Government of Bolivia on December 13, 1989 for the purpose of making joint use of the energy resources of both countries, a fixed propor- 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. Import payments may be effected in convertible currencies. Payments for imports may be freely set- tled by authorized financial entities and, since De- cember 20,1989, have been settled at the rate in the free exchange market with no minimum financing requirement period. Imports and related payments by the public sector require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Consumer goods imports are regu- lated by Decree No. 2657/91, under which customs duties are levied as follows: (1) capital goods not domestically produced, works of art, and bank notes and coins, 0 percent (736 items); (2) goods not domestically manufactured, foods tuffs (depending on comparative advantage) and mineral-based raw materials (locally produced), 5 percent (2,777 items); (3) domestically produced inputs and inter- mediate goods, 13 percent (2,622 items); (4) final products manufactured locally (including capital 19 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 20 ARGENTINA goods and spare parts), 22 percent (2,275 items); and (5) electrical domestic household appliances (audiovisual equipment), 35 percent (36 items). Im- ports of automobiles are subject to a quota. Payments for Invisibles Since December 20, 1989, the sale of foreign ex- change at the market exchange rate has been per- mitted for most invisible payments. Authorized en- tities may carry out most types of transactions without prior authorization from the Central Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Minimum export prices (reference prices) are es- tablished for many agricultural and livestock ex- ports as a basis for the payment of duties. Certain nontraditional exports are eligible for rebates of esti- mated indirect taxes paid in the process of produc- tion. Exports shipped through certain ports are eli- gible for additional rebates ranging from 7 percent to 12 percent. General export taxes are levied on sunflower seeds and soybean exports. Export proceeds are not subject to the surrender requirement. Many exports, particularly nontraditional ex- ports, are eligible for various other export incen- tives, although a number of schemes have been suspended since July 1989. The Central Bank has established prefinancing and financing regimes when credits are obtained using external funds. These regimes are applied to exporters by the par- ticipating banks to promote exports of certain goods and services. The prefinancing regime using U.S. dollar-denominated obligations of the Central Bank (BCRA notes) has been suspended since Jan- uary 1,1990, except for operations already begun by that date, with funds from all the regimes being lent as they are collected from their own portfolios. The financing system for promoted exports re- quires insurance coverage of all operations against extraordinary risks or credit risk; it is provided by the Argentine Export Credit Insurance Company, Inc. (CASCE) for the account of the National Gov- ernment. These credit documents must also be en- dorsed by a highly rated foreign bank, or the opera- tion must be covered by export credit insurance against commercial risk provided by the CASCE or another company. Certain products, mostly non- traditional exports, may be shipped on consignment for 360 days; if not sold within that period, the goods must be returned to Argentina. Various export incentives are provided for pro- moted exports in accordance with the Export Pro- motion Laws of December 16, 1984. These include (1) a deduction from taxable profits, up to 10 percent of the value of certain exports; (2) the creation of export consortia and cooperatives and the granting of an incentive equal to 4 percent of the f .o.b. value of exports over a period of five years; (3) the estab- lishment of international trading companies; (4) permission for firms to engage in countertrade when marketing promoted exports; (5) a tax draw- back scheme under which rebates (equivalent to an average rate of 7 percent of the f.o.b. value of ex- ports in cash) would be allowed for taxes of im- ported inputs and other taxes; (6) the elimination of the 0.5 percent stamp tax for exports from the Federal Capital Area; and (7) the funding of an export promotion fund to finance participation in trade fairs and exhibitions. All these incentives have, however, been formally suspended since Sep- tember 15, 1989 under the Economic Emergency Law (see section on Capital, below). Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency receipts obtained from private sector invisible transactions need not be surren- dered to the Central Bank but may be sold in the exchange market. Domestic and foreign bank notes entering and leaving the country are not subject to any exchange requirement, nor are gold coins, or "good-delivery" gold bars. Capital Since December 20,1989, proceeds from all loans have been transacted in the free exchange market. There are no conditions, on maturity dates or inter- est rates, for financial loans transacted through the free market. Principal and interest payments for loans may only be effected directly through autho- rized entities on the maturity date without prior central bank authorization. Since June 1981, borrowers for loans in foreign currency wishing to obtain an exchange rate guar- antee or a swap agreement from the Central Bank were required to obtain an extension of the original maturities for the terms as necessary. All loans out- standing and covered by a swap agreement with the Central Bank as of December 4, 1982, and all loans for which the domestic borrower had obtained an exchange rate guarantee from the Central Bank and which fell due through the end of 1985, have been extended under minimum terms established by the Central Bank. Loans covered by swap agreements that fell due in 1985 were rescheduled either by means of insurance on BCRA notes with a ten-year maturity, or by a direct refinancing between debtor and creditor for up to five years, followed by the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA 21 issuance of a BCRA note for the remainder of the period. Financial loans that benefited from any of the above-mentioned coverages were rescheduled as of October 1987 by means of the issuance of BCRA notes with a 19-year maturity and a 7-year grace period. The inflow of financial loans undertaken by local foreign-owned enterprises and originating from foreign enterprises that either directly or indirectly control the borrowing enterprises or are their sub- sidiaries requires authorization from the Central Bank. Loans endorsed or guaranteed by the state also require prior authorization from the Central Bank. Banks may accept foreign currency sight or term deposits. Foreign borrowing by the public sec- tor is regulated by Decree-Law No. 19328 of Octo- ber 29, 1971 and Decree No. 3532 of November 24, 1975. Banks may accept sight and term deposits in foreign currency. The foreign investment regime is established by Law No. 23697—the Economic Emergency Law— passed on September 1, 1989 and promulgated by the National Executive Power on September 15, 1989. Chapter VI of the Law modifies the Foreign Investment Law, mainly by repealing (exclusively) the provisions of the law requiring prior approval from the National Executive Power or from the im- plementing authority for foreign capital invest- ments. Decree No. 1225 of November 9, 1989 regu- lates the foreign investment regime. The invest- ments may be made in freely convertible foreign currencies, in capital goods and their spare parts and accessories, in profits or capital in local cur- rency belonging to foreign investors, in capitaliza- tion of external credits in freely convertible foreign currencies, in intangible goods (in accordance with the specific, applicable legislation), and in any other form of contribution acceptable to the implementing authority or within the scope of commercial or pro- motional regimes. Foreign investors may invest in Argentina with- out prior approval, on the same terms as investors who reside in Argentina, subject to the laws govern- ing the field in which they intend to invest. Law No. 23697 of 1989 has established the Register of Foreign Capital Investments, and Decree No. 1225/ 89 provides that investments registered before its entry into force shall automatically be recorded in the new register. Investments carried out using ex- ternal public debt instruments cannot be registered unless they are redeemable. In accordance with Articles 12 and 13 of Law No. 21382 (as amended by Law No. 23697 and De- cree No. 1225), foreign investors are entitled to re- patriate their capital unless the National Executive Branch imposes general restrictions. When such restrictions are imposed, foreign investments may be registered, and registered investments may be repatriated after three years. When the Central Bank limits access to exchange markets through exchange controls, foreign investors may acquire foreign exchange for transfer abroad as profits and repatriation of capital. Without prejudice to the foregoing, enterprises that receive foreign invest- ments may distribute the liquid profits they earn to foreign investors who have registered their invest- ments with foreign exchange from their exports. If the National Executive Power declares an external payments crisis, the Central Bank will deliver exter- nal public debt instruments denominated in foreign currency for the amounts that registered foreign investors wish to remit as profits. Law No. 23760 (on tax reform), passed on Decem- ber 7,1989 and promulgated on December 14,1989, abolished the special tax on additional profits from foreign capital investments that had been imposed by Article 16 of Law No. 21382. Local enterprises based on foreign capital may borrow domestically with the same rights and on the same terms as local enterprises based on domes- tic capital. The Government, through its Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Culture, has entered into investment promotion and protection agreements with the Belgium-Luxembourg Economic Union, and the governments of Germany, Italy, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. The agreements will come into effect when the governments notify each other that their constitutional requirements for entry into force of international agreements have been met. These agreements are intended to promote, and especially to protect, investments in the signatory countries. In October 1987, a debt-conversion scheme was announced that would allow investments to be fi- nanced through conversion of external loan claims into domestic currency at the free foreign exchange market rate. The value of the loan claims would be determined through an auction system. The scheme came into effect on January 1,1988, and the first auction was held in January 1988. Profits on investments under this scheme may not be remitted for at least four years, and capital may not be re- patriated for ten years. No auctions under this scheme were held during 1991. Gold Residents may hold gold coins and gold in any other form in Argentina or abroad. Financial institu- tions, exchange houses, and exchange agencies may ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 22 ARGENTINA buy or sell gold in the form of coins or good-delivery bars among themselves and may buy such gold from their clients. Gold exports must be paid for in convertible currencies. Imports of gold by industrial users are subject to a statistical duty of 0.6 percent, and those by other users are subject in addition to a sales tax. Institutions may carry out arbitrage opera- tions with their clients in gold coins or good- delivery gold against foreign bank notes. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement January 29. A target zone for exchange rate inter- vention was announced, and it was initially set at A 8,000-A 10,000; it was subsequently narrowed to A 9,700-A 10,000 by the end of March. March 19. The unified floating exchange rate sys- tem was replaced by a peg to the U.S. dollar, and the lower end of the intervention band was raised to narrow the band to A 9,700-A 10,000 per US$1. Imports and Import Payments April 1. The tariff regime was modified, as fol- lows: (1) 0 percent for capital goods not domestically produced, works of art, and bank notes and coins; (2) 5 percent for goods not domestically manufac- tured, foods tu f fs (depending on comparative ad- vantage), and mineral-based raw materials (locally produced); (3) 13 percent for domestically produced inputs and for intermediate goods; (4) 22 percent for final products manufactured locally (including capi- tal goods and spare parts); and (5) 35 percent for electrical domestic household appliances (including audiovisual equipment). April 1. The prohibition on the importation of automobiles was lifted and replaced with a quota. Exports and Export Proceeds March 8. The regulations governing prefinancing and financing of "promoted exports7' were tight- ened by Communication "A" 1807. March 22. All export taxes were eliminated, except those on sunflower seeds and soybeans. April 8. The surrender requirements on export proceeds were abolished. May 1. The duty rebate scheme was modified, whereby payments equivalent to an average rate of 7 percent of the f .o .b. value of exports would be made in cash instead of partly in austral- denominated bonds. September 3. An export financing regime was in- troduced on a temporary basis by Communication "A" 1872. The regime provided for guidelines simi- lar to those of Communication "A" 1205 (item 2.3) and established restrictions with regard to the amounts to be used, products to be financed, and acceptable terms. November 1. The 3 percent statistical levy on the f .o .b. value of exports was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARUBA1 (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Accounts The currency of Aruba is the Aruban Florin, which is pegged to the U .S. dollar at Af. 1.7900 per US$1. The Centrale Bank van Aruba (the Bank) deals with local commercial banks within margins of 0.00279 percent on either side of parity. On December 31, 1991, the official buying and selling ra tes for the U.S. dollar were Af. 1.77 and Af. 1.80, respectively, per US$1. (The official sell- ing rate for d r a f ts was Af. 1.78 per US$1.) Official buying and selling rates for other currencies2 are set daily on the basis of ra tes for the U.S. dollar on the international exchange markets. A foreign ex- change commission of 1.3 percent is levied on all payments made by residents to nonresidents. Purchases of foreign exchange by resident com- panies with a nonresident status for foreign ex- change control purposes are exempted f rom the commission. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Foreign exchange controls are administered by the Bank. Import licenses, where required, are is- sued by the Department of Economic Affa irs, Com- merce, and Industry. Prescription of Currency Payments to and receipts from nonresidents may be made in any convertible currency, except in the legal tender of Aruba. For purposes of the compila- tion of the balance of payments, all payments made by residents to nonresidents and receipts through local banks and through banks abroad must be re- ported to the Bank. aOn Janua ry 1, 1986, the island of A ruba, which was for- merly a part of the Netherlands Antilles, became a separate nonmetropolitan terr i tory within the Kingdom of the Netherlands. 2Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Netherlands Antillean guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and European Currency Units. Nonresidents may freely open accounts in any foreign currency, but they are not permitted, in principle, to hold accounts in Aruban florins. Resident Foreign Bank Accounts Residents require a license from the Bank to open and maintain foreign bank accounts. Imports and Import Payments Payments for impor ts may be made free ly. With the exception of eggs, all p roduc ts are per- m i t ted w i thout restriction. The restriction on the impor ta t ion of eggs, however, is adm in is tered liberally in accordance w i th the domes t ic supp ly s i tua t ion. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles exceeding A f. 50,000 a quarter require a license from the Bank. Tourist travel allowances, education allowances, re- mittances for family maintenance, and allowances for medical treatment are granted liberally. Trans- fers of profits and dividends are permitted by the Bank upon application. Nonresidents may take with them on departure any foreign currency that they brought in. The exportation of Aruban bank notes is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Expo r ts do not requ ire a license. Expo rt pro- ceeds must be converted into local cu r rency w i th in eight working days, cred i ted to a fo re ign currency account w i th a local bank, or cred i ted with a fore ign bank with the approval of the Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles The regulations governing export proceeds also apply to proceeds from invisibles. Nonresidents may bring in any amount of checks, traveler's checks, or bank notes denominated in foreign currency. Capital The following transactions require a bank license: (1) purchases from and sales to nonresidents of 23 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 24 ARUBA domestic securities; (2) purchases of officially listed foreign securities with values exceeding Af. 50,000 a year; and (3) purchases from and sales to nonresi- Changes During 1991 Imports and Import Payments T ^ T A T ^U I.T. ^ r n j ± AUSTRALIA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Australia is the Australian Dol- lar.1 The Australian authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions; spot and forward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the ex- change market, but the Reserve Bank of Australia retains discretionary power to intervene in the for- eign exchange market. There is no official exchange rate for the Australian dollar. The Reserve Bank of Australia publishes an indicative rate for the Aus- tralian dollar based on market observation at 4 p.m. daily. On December 31, 1991, the indicative rate in terms of the U.S. dollar was $A 1.3161 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized foreign exchange dealers may deal among themselves and with their customers at mu- tually negotiated rates for both spot and forward transactions in any currency, in respect of trade and non-trade-related transactions. The Reserve Bank sets a limit for each dealer's net open overnight foreign exchange exposure. The procedural requirements applying to certain transactions with residents of designated countries and to emigrants, which had been for taxation- screening purposes, were abolished as of July 1, 1990. Australia formally accepted the obligations of Ar- ticle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from July 1, 1965. Administration of Control The Reserve Bank is responsible for administer- ing the few requirements imposed under Aus- tralia's current foreign exchange arrangements. (Most exchange controls were abolished on Decem- ber 12, 1983.) On April 5, 1991, restrictions on payments and transfers to persons within the territory of Kuwait, which were introduced on August 9, 1990, were lifted. Prescription of Currency Both outward and inward payments may be set- tled in Australian currency or in any foreign cur- rency,2 but purchases and sales of foreign currency by persons in Australia must be undertaken with an authorized foreign exchange dealer. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may establish and operate accounts without formality; funds may also be repatriated without restriction. Accounts may be denominated in foreign currency, but purchases and sales of for- eign currency in Australia must be handled through authorized dealers. Special requirements apply in the case of interest-bearing investments by foreign government monetary authorities (see section on Capital, below). Imports and Import Payments There are no import-licensing requirements or quotas on imports other than tariff quotas, which apply to textiles, clothing, footwear, and cheese and curd. Australia is not a signatory of the Multifiber Arrangement. For many products, imports are al- lowed only if written authorization is obtained from the relevant authorities or if certain regulations are complied with. Among the goods subject to control are narcotic, psychotropic, and therapeutic sub- stances, firearms and certain weapons, particular chemicals, certain primary commodities, some glazed ceramic ware, and various dangerous goods. These controls are maintained mainly to meet health and safety requirements; to meet certain re- quirements for labeling, packaging, or technical specifications; and to satisfy certain obligations aris- ing from Australia's membership in international commodity agreements. Almost all tariff rates are subject to some tariff- reduction program. In 1990-91, the import- weighted average tariff rate (that is, total duty paid divided by the f .o .b. value of all imports) was 7.1 percent. The tariff-reduction program an- nounced in May 1988 envisaged that tar iff rates above 15 percent would be gradually reduced to 15 percent by July 1992. Tariff rates higher than 10 percent but lower than 15 percent would be phased down to 10 percent over the same period. Proportional reductions were to have been made to those tariffs not expressed in ad valorem terms. The irThe Australian dollar also circulates in several other coun- tries, including Kiribati, Nauru, and Tuvalu. 2Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Australian dollar. 25 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 26 AUSTRALIA March 1991 economic statement calls for most tar iffs to be reduced fu r ther to a maximum level of 5 per- cent by July 1996. The exceptions in these two tariff - reduction programs are for passenger motor vehi- cles and the textile, clothing, and footwear sectors, where tar iffs have been relatively high, especially in effective terms. Under the 1988 program, tar iffs on passenger motor vehicles were to be reduced to 35 percent by July 1992 and tariff quotas in the textile, clothing, and footwear sectors were to be eliminated by the middle of 1995. The March 1991 announcement calls for fu r ther phased tariff reduc- tions to 15 percent in the passenger motor vehicle industry and to 25 percent in the textile, footwear, and clothing sectors by the year 2000. Tariffs on textiles, clothing, and footwear that are not subject to tariff quotas were to be halved on March 1, 1992 and eliminated on March 1, 1993. The tariff quota system for cheese and curd will lapse on June 30, 1992. Australia's antidumping procedures were sim- plified under the revised Customs Tariff (Anti- dumping) Act of 1988. They provide for stricter conditions for demonstrating the causal link be- tween dumping and material injury to domestic industries. Industries that use imported products and other interested parties may also make submis- sions to the inquiry. Antidumping duties and un- dertakings will lapse automatically after five years, although domestic industries may renew the anti- dumping petition. In special circumstances, anti- dumping actions may be introduced retrospectively or in anticipation of the arrival of dumped or subsi- dized goods. The Antidumping Authority was es- tablished to advise the Government on these ac- tions, although the Australian Customs Service remains responsible for the preliminary investiga- tion of a complaint. In March 1991, the Government announced plans to strengthen the antidumping procedures, including accelerating the complaint process and extending the injury test to cover up- stream agricultural industry. In December 1991, the Government announced it would reduce the time taken to process complaints and change the way in which dumping duties are levied. Under the terms of the Australia-New Zealand Closer Economic Relations and Trade Agreement (ANZCERTA), trade in goods across the Taswan be- came free from July 1, 1990 (five years ahead of schedule). Imports of motor vehicles from New Zea- land were subject to a customs tariff until January 1, 1990. Antidumping actions against imports from New Zealand will not be taken after July 1, 1990, with existing antidumping actions against New Zealand firms being terminated on this date. Ac- tions will be taken under domestic trade practices legislation if it is considered necessary to redress unfair competition. The South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement (SPARTECA) provides for duty-free and unrestricted access to Australian and New Zealand markets on a nonreciprocal basis for most of the products exported by the member coun- tries. In the case of Papua New Guinea, while it obtains trade concessions from New Zealand under SPARTECA, its trade and commercial relations with Australia are covered by the Agreement on Trade and Commercial Relations between Australia and Papua New Guinea.3 Developing countries obtain tariff preferences on their exports to Australia under the Australian Sys- tem of Tariff Preference. Since 1986, a uniform pref- erential margin of 5 percentage points on dutiable goods has applied to all developing countries; if the general tariff rate is below 5 percent, imports from developing countries enter duty free. The scheme was fully implemented during 1990. For Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea, Singapore, and Tai- wan Province of China, tariffs will be fixed at July 1, 1992 levels until the preference is phased out through general tariff reductions. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are unrestricted, except for transactions involving Iraqi nationals. Travelers may take out of Australia unlimited amounts of Australian and foreign currency purchased from authorized dealers. Travelers who are not residents of Australia may also take out without restriction any amount in foreign currency they brought into Australia. Persons leaving Australia with Aus- tralian or foreign bank notes and coins totaling $A 5,000 or more are required under the Cash Transaction Reports Act to complete a report form; these forms are available at ports or airports from Australian customs. The ANZCERTA also provides, through a protocol, for the liberalization of the trade in services between Australia and New Zealand, subject to the foreign investment policies of both countries. In addition, certain service activities are excluded from the agreement. Among Australia's exclusions are tele- communications, banking, airport services and avi- ation, coastal shipping, media, and postal services. The operation of the trade-in-services protocol was 3The areas covered by this agreement are those constituting the South Pacific Forum (in addition to Australia and New Zealand) —Cook Islands, Fiji, Kiribati, Nauru, Niue, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu, and Western Samoa. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA 27 reviewed in December 1990 at the technical level and is expected to be reviewed again in the course of 1992. Exports and Export Proceeds The export regime is designed to encourage the relatively unrestricted exportation of Australian products. Bounties are paid to producers of a lim- ited number of products, some of which may be exported. Export prohibitions and restrictions in effect are designed to ensure quality control over specified goods; administer trade embargoes and meet obligations under international arrangements; restrict the exportation of certain defense goods; regulate the exportation of goods that contain high technology and have dual civilian/military applica- tion;4 and maintain adequate measures of control over designated cultural property, resources, and flora and fauna. There are no formalities regulating the disposal of export proceeds. The Government also exercises export controls to secure national conservation objectives and to re- spond to specific market distortions abroad that have an impact on the export prices of certain prod- ucts. The Government abolished or amended export controls on many mineral and petroleum products in 1987-88. Remaining controls on primary prod- ucts apply mainly to food and agricultural products. In order to address distortions in the bauxite and alumina, coal, and iron sectors, the Government monitors trade in these products and retains the authority to withhold export approval for shipments at prices not in line with market conditions. Export controls apply to uranium to ensure compliance with the Government's commercial and non- proliferation policy obligations. Restrictions also ap- ply on the exportation of certain other nuclear and related materials. Export restrictions on copper scrap and copper alloy scrap were lifted in 1990. The exportation of crude oil and petroleum products to South Africa is banned. Licenses are required for the exportation of un- processed wood, including wood chips. Licensing requirements are intended to ensure compliance with the Government's policy regarding environ- mental protection, elimination of market distor- tions, and the promotion of fur ther processing in Australia. Australia participates in several voluntary re- straint agreements (VRAs) or similar restraint 4Australia became a participant in the Coordinating Commit- tee for Multilateral Export Controls (COCOM), effective May 1989. agreements affecting its exports. These comprise limits on exports of the meat of sheep and goats as well as high-quality "Hilton" beef to the EC, and bovine meat and a VRA on steel products to the United States. The Australian Dairy Corporation administers export control powers in relation to pre- scribed dairy products under the provisions of the Dairy Produce Act. All exporters of controlled dairy products must be licensed. This system allows the control of exports to markets where quantitative restrictions apply and ensures that export prices do not fall below minimum prices agreed to under the GATT for these products. Exports of red meat and livestock can only be made by persons or firms licensed by the Australian Meat and Livestock Cor- poration (AMLC). The AMLC has the power to en- gage in export trading in its own right and may introduce arrangements to control Australian ex- ports to that market to observe quantitative restric- tions in any particular market. Other Common- wealth statutory marketing authorities that have export control powers are the Australian Hor- ticultural Corporation, the Australian Wool Corpor- ation, the Australian Honey Board, the Australian Wheat Board, and the Australian Wine and Brandy Corporation. The Australian Wheat Board's powers make it the sole exporter of Australian wheat. The remaining authorities' export control powers are used to ensure the quality of exports. Proceeds from Invisibles Earnings from invisibles in foreign currencies may be retained or sold for Australian dollars. Trav- elers may bring in any amount in Australian or foreign bank notes and coins, subject to completion of a report form for amounts exceeding $A 5,000. (See section on Payments for Invisibles, above.) Capital The vast majority of transactions involving trans- fers of interest-bearing capital from Australia and nonresident investments in Australia may be un- dertaken without formality. The only exceptions are that foreign governments, their agencies, and inter- national organizations are subject to certain modest restrictions on borrowing in Australia. These en- tities are barred from issuing bearer bonds and must consult with the Treasury or Reserve Bank on planned individual borrowings in excess of $A 100 million. While there are no limits on the interest- bearing investments of international organizations or of foreign central banks and other monetary au- thorities, the Reserve Bank may determine an ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 28 AUSTRALIA amount up to which the investment of foreign gov- ernment monetary institutions (which also under- take commercial investments) will be regarded as having been undertaken for official foreign reserve management purposes. All investing agencies are expected to be stable holders of Australian dollar assets and to keep the Reserve Bank informed of their Australian dollar portfolios. Interest-bearing investments of a foreign government's official for- eign reserves are exempt from taxation consistent with the principle of sovereign immunity. Income derived by a foreign government from the conduct of commercial operations is not exempt from Aus- tralian taxation. The Government recognizes the substantial con- tribution foreign investment makes to the develop- ment of Australia's industries and resources and has framed its policies so as to encourage direct investment in line consistent with the needs of the community. Under Australia's foreign investment policy, certain types of proposals by foreign inves- tors are subject to examination.5 These include (1) acquisitions of substantial interests in exist- ing Australian businesses with total assets of $A 5 million or more ($A 3 million or more for rural properties); (2) proposals for the establishment of new businesses involving total investments of $A 10 million or more; (3) proposals for investment in the media irrespective of size; (4) direct invest- ment by foreign governments or their agencies irre- spective of size; (5) acquisitions of nonresidential commercial real estate valued at $A 5 million or more; and (6) proposals to acquire residential real estate irrespective of size (unless exempt under the regulations). Foreign investors may acquire residen- tial estates within a designated integrated tourism resort (ITR) without obtaining approval under the foreign investment guidelines. In most industry sectors, the Government ap- proves proposals to establish new businesses in- volving total investments of $A 10 million or more and those to acquire existing businesses with total assets valued at $ A 5 million or more ($ A 3 million or more if more than half of the assets of the business are attributable to rural land) unless judged to be contrary to the national interest. Certain restrictions apply to proposed acquisi- tions of real estate but approval is normally granted to (1) acquisitions of real estate for development; (2) purchases of vacant residential land (on condi- tion that development occurs within 12 months) and home units and townhouses that are ''off the plan" or under construction (on condition that no more than half of the units in any one development are sold to foreign interests); and (3) acquisitions of developed nonresidential commercial real estate, subject to 50 percent Australian equity participation (unless not available). In applying the policy, the authorities make every effort to avoid unnecessary interference in normal commercial processes and recognize the special characteristics and circumstances that may arise in individual cases. The policy is nondiscriminatory as to the country of origin of investors, and the Foreign Investment Review Board, which acts as an inde- pendent advisor to the Government on foreign in- vestment matters, stands ready to assist and advise foreign investors in formulating their proposals. Gold Australia has no restrictions applying to owning, buying, selling, importing, or exporting gold and gold coins, with the exception of the importing and exporting of Krugerrand. If the exportation or im- portation of coins (together with any notes) exceeds $ A 5,000, it must be reported under the Cash Trans- action Reports Act of 1988. Changes During 1991 Administration of Control April 5. Restrictions on payments and transfers to persons within the territory of Kuwait were lifted. Payments and transfers to the Government of Iraq, its agencies, or nationals remain prohibited without the specific approval of the Reserve Bank of Aus- tralia. Imports and Import Payments March 12. The Government announced a broad- based program of tariff reductions and other trade measures to be phased in by the year 2000. December 5. The Government announced changes in antidumping legislation, extending the sunset period for antidumping actions to five years and changing the way in which dumping duties are levied. Australia's foreign investment policy was modified, effective February 26, 1992. While foreign investors are still required to notify the Australian authorities if they acquire or establish a domestic business, only those proposals that involve acquisitions or investments of more than $ A 50 million are subject to examina- tion. Special requirements continue to apply to certain restricted sectors. Capital April 19. The Government announced the relaxa- tion of restrictions on borrowings in the Australian capital market by foreign governments, their agen- cies, and international organizations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA 29 July 25. The Government announced that for- eign investors may acquire any residential real estate within a designated ITR w i thout obtaining approval under the fore ign investment guide- lines. Foreign investment regulations were amended accordingly. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Austria is the Austrian Schilling. Without assuming any formal obligations, the au- thorities aim at maintaining a stable relationship with the currencies participating in the European Monetary System (EMS). Forward transactions are permitted. Forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces, and the Aus- trian National Bank does not intervene in the for- ward market or provide cover for commercial banks7 forward positions. On December 31, 1991, the au- thorized banks' buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were S 10.649 and S 10.729 respectively, per US$1. There are no exchange taxes or subsidies. Austria formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from August 1, 1962. Administration of Control Most exchange transactions are effected through Austrian banks authorized by the Austrian National Bank. Certain restrictions on payments and trans- fers for current international transactions to the Government of Iraq are still in force. Export and import licenses required for goods by the Foreign Trade Act of 1984, as amended in 1988, have to be issued by the Federal Ministry for Eco- nomic Affa irs with respect to industrial products and by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and For- estry with respect to agricultural products. In in- stances where the customs authorities are autho- rized to issue import and export licenses on behalf of the ministries mentioned above, these are granted without delay or formal application (auto- matic licensing) at the time of the clearance of goods through customs. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries may be made either in foreign currencies or through free schilling accounts. Nonresident Accounts There is only one category of nonresident account in schillings, namely, free schilling accounts. These accounts may be freely opened by Austrian banks on behalf of nonresidents and are not subject to restrictions. Balances may be freely converted into any foreign currency. Transfers between these ac- counts are free. Nonresidents may also maintain nonresident ac- counts in foreign currencies. They are subject to the same conditions as free schilling accounts. Imports and Import Payments All commodities not included in the Annexes to the Foreign Trade Law are free of import licensing and may be imported from any country without quantitative restriction. For many goods, licenses are granted by customs at the time of clearance, irrespective of the country from which they are im- ported.1 Nearly all imports from General Agree- ment on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) countries, their associated territories, and certain other countries2 have been liberalized. Austria's GATT liberalization is applied worldwide, except in respect of certain textiles and clothing as defined in Article XII, Sec- tion 1 of the Arrangement Regarding International Trade in Textiles. Nonliberalized imports may be obtained under various procedures, namely, state trading, global quotas, bilateral quotas, and discre- tionary licensing. State trading covers tobacco in any form, ethyl alcohol, and salt. Global quotas apply to specified imports from GATT countries; 1 Goods liberalized for importation from a given group of coun- tries may be freely imported from any country in the group, provided that the country of exportation and the country of production of the goods involved are in the same group. 2These countries are Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Australia, The Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangla- desh, Barbados, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, Bra- zil, Brunei, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Can- ada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Denmark (in- cluding Faeroe Islands and Greenland), Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Estonia, Fiji, Fin- land, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Hong Kong, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Kenya, Kiribati, Republic of Korea, Kuwait, Latvia, Lesotho, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mozambique, Myanmar, Nether- lands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Qatar, Rwanda, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sol- omon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Swazi- land, Sweden, Switzerland, Tanzania, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Tuvalu, Uganda, states of the for- mer U.S.S.R., United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, United States, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Republic of Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. 30 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA 31 such quotas apply only to potatoes, wheat, corn- starch, preserved meat, and wine. Discretionary individual licensing is applicable to all other private imports not covered by the procedures listed above, including imports of certain textiles from specified countries. Licenses are usually granted if the im- ports concerned do not adversely affect domestic industries. Grains, milk and butter, and cattle, pigs, sheep, goats, and horses for slaughter and products from these animals for human consumption are imported in accordance with a special system of controls and regulations maintained under the Agricultural Mar- keting Law and the law governing livestock farming and trading, and the marketing of livestock pro- duce. Certain agricultural products are subject to import levies. In some cases, import licenses are issued only to importers who have received export certificates from the countries of their trading partners. Import licenses are not transferable and are valid for six months, but this period may be extended for peri- ods of three months at a time. Payments for imports from, and originating in, countries with which Aus- tria makes settlements in convertible currencies do not require exchange licenses. Under the 1982 Customs Preference Act, which covers the second ten-year period of the Austrian Scheme of Gener- alized Preferences, special treatment is provided for imports from developing countries, and in particu- lar, 31 least-developed countries as defined by the UN General Assembly; the list of products eligible for preferential treatment has also been extended under the act. Payments for Invisibles Residents are permitted to conclude transactions with nonresidents involving invisible payments without restriction. Residents traveling abroad for tourism purposes may purchase foreign exchange from authorized banks or obtain short-term advances f rom nonresi- dents without limitation. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses for exports regulated under the Foreign Trade Law have to be obtained from the relevant ministry or, at the time of clearance, from the customs authorities. For most exports, licenses are not required. Export licenses are issued with due consideration for the provisions of relevant bilateral trade agreements and the fulfillment of quotas es- tablished in accordance with such agreements, and for the needs of the Austrian economy. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles may be deposited with- out restriction. Persons entering Austria may import Austrian or foreign bank notes and coins without limitation. Capital The acquisition by nonresidents of Austrian se- curities and shares and participation by nonresi- dents in Austrian companies are unrestricted. The acquisition of real estate is subject to approval by local authorities. Nonresidents are permitted to is- sue bonds on the domestic market. Foreign banks cannot establish branches in Aus- tria, except through an enterprise incorporated in Austria. Nonresidents are also not permitted to in- vest in the auditing, mining, energy, transport, or legal sectors, nor are they permitted to acquire a share of 25 percent or more in ships registered in Austria. Residents and nonresidents may export capital freely without a license. Nonresidents' direct in- vestments in Austria and the purchases of Austrian or foreign equities do not require approval. The transfer of funds owned by emigrants and payments due to nonresidents on account of dow- ries, inheritances, and settlements under certain agreements between heirs are permitted. Residents may also grant loans to nonresidents as well as to foreign banks and financial institutions. Residents are allowed to acquire participation rights in foreign companies, associations, and other enterprises, and to establish, acquire, or extend for- eign agencies or individually owned firms; earnings accruing from such investment may be freely used. Residents are permitted to acquire real estate abroad, and to purchase from nonresidents se- curities denominated in Austrian and foreign cur- rencies without restriction. Residents are also per- mitted to open bank accounts abroad and to issue bonds abroad. Gold The Foreign Trade Law prescribes import licenses for certain gold imports (for example, gold sheets). The licenses are issued either by the Ministry for Economic Affairs to industrial users or by the customs office. Changes During 1991 Capital November 4. All foreign exchange controls were abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of The Bahamas is the Bahamian Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the inter- vention currency, at B$l per US$1. The U.S. dollar circulates concurrently with the Bahamian dollar. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dol- lar are B$1.0025 and B$1.0040, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for the pound ster- ling are also officially quoted, the buying rate being based on the New York market midrate; the selling rate is 0.5 percent above the buying rate. The Cen- tral Bank of The Bahamas deals only with commer- cial banks. For transactions with the public, com- mercial banks are authorized to charge a commission of 0.50 percent buying and 0.75 percent selling per US$1, and 0.50 percent buying or selling per £ stg. 1. These charges are additional to the Central Bank's charges. A stamp tax of B$0.25 per- cent is applied to all outward remittances. There is also a market in which "investment cur- rency"1 may be negotiated between residents through the Central Bank at freely determined rates, usually attracting a premium over the official market rate. Commercial banks may provide forward cover for residents of The Bahamas where the resident is due to receive or has to pay foreign currency under a firm contractual commitment. Commercial banks may not, however, sell foreign currency spot to be held on account in cover of fu ture requirements unless the Central Bank's permission has been given. Authorized dealers may deal in foreign cur- rency forward with nonresidents without prior ap- proval from the Central Bank. Commercial banks may deal among themselves forward at market rates and must ensure when carrying out all forward cover arrangements that their open position carried either spot or forward does not exceed the equiv- alent of B$500,000 long or short. There are no for- ward cover arrangements in the official sector. irThis is foreign currency in respect of which there is general or specific central bank permission that it may be retained and used or disposed of as investment currency. Such permission may exist in respect of foreign currency accruing to residents of The Bahamas from the sale or redemption of foreign currency se- curities or the sale, liquidation, redemption, or realization of property, or of direct investments outside The Bahamas. The use of investment currency is prescribed for the purchase from non- residents of foreign currency securities and the making of direct investments outside The Bahamas. In 1991, the volume of trans- actions in this market amounted to about B$l million. The Bahamas formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from December 5, 1973. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank, which delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve allocations of foreign exchange for certain current payments; the approval authority for import payments, travel facilities, and cash gifts is not delegated, except in the Family Islands.2 Im- port and export licenses are not required except for crawfish, conch, arms and ammunition, and, in cer- tain cases, industrial gold. The Department of Agri- culture and Fisheries issues export licenses for crawfish and conch, and the Police Department is- sues import and export licenses for arms and ammunition. Prescription of Currency The exchange control system of The Bahamas makes no distinction between foreign territories. Settlements with residents of foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency3 or in Bahamian dollars through an external account. Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may freely open external ac- counts denominated in Bahamian dollars for winter residents and for persons with residency permits who are not gainfully employed in The Bahamas. With the prior approval of the Central Bank, authorized banks may also open external accounts in Bahamian dollars for nonresident companies that have local expenses in The Bahamas and for nonresident investors. External accounts in Bahamian dollars are normally funded entirely from foreign currency originating outside The Bahamas, but income on registered investments may also be credited to these accounts with the Cen- tral Bank's approval. Balances may be converted freely into foreign currency and transferred abroad.4 2Beginning in June 1988, the Central Bank established a branch of its Exchange Control Department in Grand Bahama to serve the foreign exchange needs of residents in that area. 3Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Bahamian dollar. 4Persons of foreign nationality who have been granted "tem- porary resident" status are treated in some respects as nonresi- dents but are not permitted to hold external accounts in Baha- mian dollars. 32 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS 33 Accounts that are credited with funds that may not be placed at the free disposal of nonresidents are designated blocked accounts. These are held mainly by emigrants. Where the value of an emi- grant's assets exceeds B$25,000, the excess is cred- ited to a blocked account. Balances on blocked ac- counts are transferable through the official exchange market after four years or through the investment currency market at any time; they may also be invested, with the Central Bank's approval, in certain resident-held assets or be spent locally for any other purpose. Imports and Import Payments The importation of certain commodities is pro- hibited or controlled for health, social, or human- itarian reasons. All other goods may be imported without a license. The prior approval of the Central Bank is required for making payments for imports, irrespective of origin;5 this approval is normally given automatically upon submission of pro forma invoices or other relevant documents proving the existence of a purchase contract. Import duties vary from zero to 200 percent, depending on the type of good. Customs entries are subject to a stamp tax at a rate of 1.5 percent. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on current payments. Authorized dealers can make payments to nonresi- dents on behalf of residents for certain services and other invisibles within specified limits. Such pay- ments include freight, ships' disbursements, com- missions, royalties, education, and insurance pay- ments. Residents are entitled, on application to the Central Bank, to a foreign currency travel allowance equivalent to B$l,000 a person a year for tourist travel and to B$5,000 a person a year for genuine business or professional travel. The allowance for tourist travel excludes the cost of fares and travel services, which are normally obtained against pay- ment in Bahamian dollars to a travel agent in The Bahamas. Applications for foreign exchange in ex- cess of these amounts must be referred to the Cen- tral Bank, which approves bona fide applications. Foreign exchange facilities obtained for travel may not be retained abroad or be used abroad for pur- poses other than travel; any unused balance must be surrendered within a week of issue or, if the traveler is still abroad, within one week of his return to The Bahamas. Subject to adequate documentary evidence, an education allowance of up to B$10,000 a person an academic year is normally granted upon applica- tion. Applications for facilities in excess of this amount are referred to the Central Bank. Tempo- rary residents may, with the approval of the Central Bank, remit up to 50 percent of their wages and salaries, but where commitments outside The Bahamas are larger than 50 percent of wages and salaries, additional amounts may be remitted. Tem- porary residents may also repatriate all of their ac- cumulated savings resulting from their employ- ment in The Bahamas. A traveler may take out Bahamian bank notes not exceeding B$70 in value; Bahamian travelers may not take out notes of any other country, except with the specific approval of the Central Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required except for crawfish, conch, and arms and ammunition. The proceeds of exports must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer as soon as the goods have reached their destination or within six months of shipment; alternatively, export proceeds may be used in any manner acceptable to the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents are obliged to collect without delay all amounts due to them from nonresidents and to offer the foreign currency proceeds for sale to an authorized dealer without delay, but these require- ments are seldom enforced. There are no restric- tions on the importation of foreign bank notes. The importation of domestic bank notes is subject to the approval of the Central Bank. Capital All capital transfers to countries outside The Bahamas require exchange control approval, and outflows of resident-owned capital are restricted. Inward transfers by nonresidents do not require exchange control approval, although the subse- quent utilization of the funds in The Bahamas may require authorization. The permission of the Central Bank is required in respect of any action whereby nonresidents acquire control of or participate in an incorporated company controlled by residents. Res- ident individuals and companies require the spe- cific permission of the Central Bank to maintain foreign currency bank accounts abroad.6 5Except in the Family Islands, where this authority is dele- gated to clearing bank branches. 6Banks and trusts established in The Bahamas are exempt f rom certain exchange control regulations, particularly with regard to their offshore operations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 34 THE BAHAMAS The use of official exchange for direct investment abroad is limited to B$100,000 or 30 percent of the total cost of the investment, whichever is greater, for investments from which the additional benefits expected to accrue to the balance of payments from export receipts, profits, or other earnings within 18 months of the investment will at least equal the total amount of investment and will continue thereafter. Investments abroad that do not meet the above criteria may be financed by foreign currency bor- rowed on suitable terms subject to individual ap- proval by the Central Bank, the purchase of foreign currency in the investment currency market, or the use of retained profits of foreign subsidiary com- panies. Permission is not given for investments that are likely to have adverse effects on the balance of payments. In principle, inward investment by nonresidents is unrestricted. However, the consent of the Central Bank is required for the issue or transfer of shares in a Bahamian company to a nonresident and for the transfer of control of a Bahamian company to a nonresident. Special procedures apply to invest- ments in the form of purchase of real property, as specified under the Immovable Property (Acquisi- tion by Foreign Persons) Act, 1981, which came into effect on November 1, 1983: foreigners intending to purchase land must apply to the Foreign Invest- ments Board, a group of designated ministers of the Government. If such application is approved, pay- ment for the purchase may be made either in Baha- mian dollars from an external account or in foreign currency. For all investments with approved status, permis- sion is given upon application for the transfer of profits and dividends representing earned trading profits and investment income. In the event of a sale or liquidation, nonresident investors are permitted to repatriate the proceeds, including any capital appreciation, through the official foreign exchange market. Residents require the specific approval of the Central Bank to buy property outside The Bahamas; such purchases, if for personal use, can be made only with investment currency, and ap- proval is limited to one property for each family. Incidental expenses connected with the purchase of property for personal use may normally be met with investment currency; expenditures necessary for the maintenance of the property or arising directly from its ownership may, with permission, be met with foreign currency bought at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market. The transfer of legacies and inheritances due to nonresident beneficiaries under wills or intestacies of persons who were Bahamian residents at the time of their death is permitted. However, permission is not normally given for Bahamian residents to settle any property, other than by will, for the benefit of nonresidents, in line with the provisions of the Im- movable Property (Acquisition by Foreign Persons) Act, 1981. Residents may make cash gifts to nonresidents not exceeding a total of B$l,000 a donor each year. This amount may be exceeded, with permission, in special circumstances. Foreign nationals domiciled in The Bahamas, even if considered residents for exchange control purposes, may be eligible for a measure of exemp- tion from certain exchange control obligations, nota- bly with respect to the mandatory deposit of foreign currency securities and the surrender of certain other foreign capital assets. Nonresident buyers of Bahamian securities must pay for such purchases in Bahamian dollars from an external account, in funds eligible for credit to an external account, or in Bahamian dollars arising from the sale of foreign currency in the official for- eign exchange market; interest, dividends, and cap- ital payments on such securities may not be remit- ted outside The Bahamas unless the holdings have been properly acquired by nonresidents. Bahamian residents are not permitted to purchase foreign cur- rency securities with official exchange or out of ex- port proceeds or other current earnings; payment must be made with investment currency. All pur- chases, sales, and switches of foreign currency se- curities in The Bahamas and all switches in foreign currency securities by Bahamian residents, wher- ever the switch takes place, require permission from the Central Bank, and all transactions must take place through authorized agents.7 All foreign se- curities purchased by residents of The Bahamas must be held by or to the order of an authorized agent. Securities of other former Sterling Area countries are considered foreign currency se- curities, and sales proceeds of such securities held by residents, if registered at the Central Bank by De- cember 31, 1972, are eligible for sale in the invest- ment currency market; securities not so registered may be offered for sale at the official rate of exchange. Residents leaving the country with the intention of residing permanently outside The Bahamas are redesignated upon departure as nonresidents. Un- der normal rules persons leaving The Bahamas to take up residence elsewhere may transfer, at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange 7Thirteen banks and trust companies are authorized to deal in Bahamian and foreign currency securities and to receive se- curities as deposits. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS 35 market, up to B$25,000 of their Bahamian dollar assets to the new country of residence and may also take normal household and personal effects with them. When the total value of their Bahamian dollar assets is over B$25,000, the excess is transferable through the official exchange market after four years, or through the investment currency market at any time. After a person has been redesignated a nonresident, income accruing from his assets re- maining in The Bahamas is normally remittable at the current market rate in the official foreign ex- change market. Residents other than authorized banks require permission to borrow foreign currency from non- residents, and authorized dealers are subject to ex- change control directions with regard to their lend- ing of foreign currency to residents. Residents also require permission to pay interest on, and to repay the principal of, foreign currency loans by conver- sion of Bahamian dollars. When permission is granted for residents to accept foreign currency loans, such permission is normally conditional upon the currency being offered for sale without delay to an authorized dealer, unless the funds are required to meet payments to nonresidents for which per- mission has been specifically given. A resident company that is wholly owned by nonresidents is not normally allowed to raise work- ing capital in Bahamian dollars unless such funds are a small proportion of the total investment. If the company is partly owned by residents, the amount of such local currency borrowing is normally deter- mined in relation to the resident interest in the equity of the company. Banks and other lenders resident in The Bahamas require permission to ex- tend loans in domestic currency to any corporate body (other than a bank) that is resident in The Bahamas and is controlled by any means, whether directly or indirectly, by nonresidents. However, companies that are set up by nonresidents primarily to import and distribute products manufactured outside The Bahamas are not normally allowed to borrow Bahamian dollars from residents either for fixed or working capital but must provide all their financing in foreign currency; foreign currency loans are normally permitted on application. Gold Residents of The Bahamas other than authorized dealers are not permitted to hold or deal in gold bullion. However, residents who are known users of gold for industrial purposes may, with the approval of the Central Bank, meet their current industrial requirements. Authorized dealers are not required to obtain licenses for bullion or coins. Commercial imports of gold jewelry do not require a license. There is no import duty on gold bullion or gold coins; however, an import duty of 35 percent is imposed on imports of gold jewelry from all sources. A 1.5 percent stamp tax payable to customs is also payable on commercial shipments of gold jewelry from any source. There is no restriction on residents' acquisition or retention of gold coins. The Bahamas has issued commemorative coins in de- nominations of B$10, B$20, B$50, B$100, B$150, B$200, B$250, B$l,000, and B$2,500 in gold, and B$10 and B$25 in silver; these are legal tender but do not circulate. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement October 7. The Second Schedule to the Stamp Act was amended, and the stamp tax was changed to a uniform rate of 1.5 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHRAIN (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bahrain is the Bahrain Dinar, which is pegged to the SDR at the rate of BD 0.476190 per SDR 1. The exchange rate for the Bahrain dinar in terms of the SDR may be set within margins of ± 7.25 percent of this fixed relationship. In practice, however, the Bahrain dinar has main- tained a relatively stable relationship with the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, and since De- cember 1980, the exchange rate has remained un- changed at BD 1 = US$2.6596. The middle rate of the Bahrain dinar for the U.S. dollar is quoted by the Bahrain Monetary Agency (BMA) and has re- mained unchanged since December 1980. The BMA provides daily recommended rates for banks dealing with the public for amounts up to BD 1,000 in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, and deut- sche mark, based on the latest available U.S. dollar rates against those currencies. On December 31, 1991, the BMA's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were BD 0.375 and BD 0.377, respec- tively, per US$1. The BMA does not deal with the public. In their dealings with the public, commer- cial banks are required to use the BMA's rates for U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, and deutsche mark, but they are authorized to charge an exchange com- mission of 2 per mill (special rates of commission apply for transactions up to BD 1,000). The banks7 rates for other currencies are based on the BMA's U.S. dollar rates and on the New York market rate for the currency concerned against the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official sector, while the BMA moni- tors forward exchange transactions of commercial banks through the open position of commercial banks' monthly returns. Bahrain formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from March 20, 1973. Administration of Control The BMA is the exchange control authority, but there is no exchange control legislation in Bahrain. No import or export licenses are required (except for arms and ammunition, and alcoholic beverages). However, importers and exporters must be regis- tered with the commercial registry maintained by the Ministry of Commerce and Agriculture and must be members of the Bahrain Chamber of Com- merce and Industry. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel are prohibited. Other- wise, no requirements are imposed on exchange payments or receipts. Nonresident Accounts A distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Offshore banking units are not normally permitted to hold resident accounts. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel are prohibited, as are products manufactured by foreign companies that are blacklisted by the League of Arab States. Im- ports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for reasons of health, public policy, or se- curity. Imports of cultured pearls are also pro- hibited. Import licenses are required for arms and ammunition and alcoholic beverages. Rice and sugar are, in practice, imported only by the Bahrain Import-Export Company. The rates of customs tar- i f fs range between 5 percent and 10 percent on most commodities; the customs tariffs on vehicles, to- bacco, and alcoholic beverages are 20 percent, 50 percent, and 125 percent, respectively. Govern- ment procurements are required to give preference to goods produced in Bahrain and within the mem- ber countries of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC), provided that the prices of these goods are within specified margins of the prices of imported substitutes; the margins are 10 percent for goods produced in Bahrain and 5 percent for goods produced within the member countries of the GCC. Foreign exchange for pay- ments in respect of permitted imports may be ob- tained freely. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel are prohibited, and exports of certain refined petroleum products to South Africa have been suspended. Otherwise, all commodities may be exported freely. No requirements are at- tached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the 36 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHRAIN 37 proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted, except that payments must not be made to or received from Israel. Travelers may bring in or take out of Bahrain any amount in domestic or foreign bank notes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents, but payments may not be made to or received from Israel. Profits from foreign invest- ments in Bahrain may be transferred abroad freely, except that, under Article 72 of the Monetary Agency Law, the banks are subject to special rules regarding the payment of dividends and the remit- tance of their profits. Licensed offshore banking units may freely engage in transactions with non- residents; transactions with residents are not nor- mally permitted. The stock exchange began opera- tions on January 2,1989, and trading on the floor of the exchange began on June 17, 1989. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are freely permitted and do not require a license. Imports of gold jewelry are subject to a 10 percent customs duty, but gold ingots are exempt. Brokerage business in gold (as well as in other commodities) requires approval from the BMA before registering with the Ministry of Com- merce and Agriculture; such business is subject to a minimum deposit requirement equivalent in the case of gold to BD 3,000 or 10 percent of the contract value, whichever is higher. Changes During 1991 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bangladesh is the Bangladesh Taka. The value of the taka in terms of the U.S. dol- lar, the intervention currency, is determined with reference to a weighted basket consisting of the currencies of the country's major trading partners. On December 31, 1991, the official (spot) middle rate of the taka in terms of the U.S. dollar was Tk 38.58 per US$1, and the spot buying and selling rates of Bangladesh Bank (the central bank) for au- thorized dealers were Tk 38.53 and Tk 38.63, respec- tively, per US$1. On the same date, the spot buying and selling rates (telegraphic transfers) of autho- rized dealers were Tk 38.2165 and Tk 38.6713, re- spectively, per US$1. Exchange rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are based on the daily closing rates of the U.S. dollar in New York for the currencies concerned. Different effective exchange rates arise f rom the operation of the Secondary Exchange Market (SEM), which comprises the Wage Earners7 Scheme (WES), and the Export Performance Benefit (XPB) scheme. Under the WES, foreign exchange earn- ings remitted by workers abroad, tourist receipts, and most service receipts are sold at a rate deter- mined by a committee of authorized foreign ex- change dealers (mainly banks) constituted by Ban- gladesh Bank. Under the XPB scheme, exporters and certain indirect exporters of nontraditional items are eligible to receive an exchange rate pre- mium, which is set to equal the difference between the WES rate (in taka per U.S. dollar) and the official rate. Each eligible item receives a coefficient of ei- ther 40 percent, 70 percent, or 100 percent of the XPB, depending on that item's domestic value added and the priority that the Government places on encouraging its exportation. At the end of 1991, 71 items were eligible for 100 percent of the XPB, covering domestic value added of 70 percent and higher. A coefficient of 70 percent was given to 40 items with a value added of between 50 percent and 69 percent. However, light engineering products, machine tools and equipment, cast-iron products, household electrical appliances, and electric cables with a value added of 60 percent and above, be- tween 40 percent and 59 percent, and less than 40 percent were given coefficients of 100 percent, 70 percent, and 40 percent, respectively. Exports of garments and leather were subject to a schedule of coefficients. Garments received 70 percent XPB if they were made from imported raw materials, and 100 percent XPB if domestic materials were used. For leather items, the coefficients were 40 percent for products using imported raw materials and 100 percent for products using domestic materials. Seventy percent XPB was given to exports of inter- mediate textile products (that is, fabric) and to do- mestic sales of intermediate products that were finished locally and then exported. All other non- traditional exports, except wet-blue leather, re- ceived 40 percent XPB. On December 31, 1991, the middle exchange rate in the secondary market was Tk 36.505 per US$1. Forward facilities at authorized banks are avail- able in all approved foreign currencies and in cur- rencies of the member countries of the Asian Clear- ing Union (ACU),1 covering periods of up to six months for export proceeds and import payments and covering up to three months for remittances of surplus collection of foreign shipping companies and airlines. The authorized banks may in their turn take forward cover in the interbank market or from Bangladesh Bank against transactions for which they have entered into forward contracts with their customers. Authorized banks may also take for- ward cover for one month from Bangladesh Bank against sight export bills negotiated by them, and enter into forward contracts with their overseas branches/correspondents against underlying ex- port or import transactions. Authorized banks are permitted to retain relatively small working bal- ances with their foreign correspondents, and cur- rency swaps are not permitted unless they are against underlying approved commercial transac- tions. Forward transactions of Bangladesh Bank are confined to purchases and sales of deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, U.S. dollars, and all currencies of the member coun- tries of the ACU. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by Bangla- desh Bank in accordance w i th general policy for- mu la ted in consultation with the Ministry of Fi- nance. The 7 foreign and 11 domestic commercial banks (of which 3 are nationalized), together with 1 Members of the Asian C lear ing Union are Bangladesh, In- dia, the Islamic Republic of I ran, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. 38 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH 39 3 jo in t -ven tu re banks and 4 specialized f inanc ial institutions, have been appointed au thor ized dealers (au thor ized banks) in fore ign exchange. The Chief Controller of Imports and Expor ts of the Ministry of Commerce is responsible for register- ing exporters and impor ters and for issuing the Import Policy Order (IPO). Registered impor ters can make their imports in terms of the IPO against letters of cred i t. Le t ters of credit authorization fo rms are issued by au thor ized dealers and do not require a separate import license. Certain trade transactions are conducted through state trad ing agencies, including the Trading Corporation of Bang ladesh (TCB). Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries are subject to ex- change control. Settlements with countries with which Bangladesh has commodity exchange agree- ments2 normally must be effected through noncon- vertible U.S. dollar or pound sterling accounts for goods and services specified in the agreements up to agreed value limits; settlement with these coun- tries can be made in convertible currencies for goods and services not specified in the agreements or beyond the value ceilings specified in the agree- ments. Payments to, and receipts from, the other member countries of the ACU in respect of current transactions must be effected through the ACU in terms of the Asian Monetary Unit (AMU).3 Settle- ments with other countries normally take place in convertible currencies and, in a few cases, through nonresident taka accounts. Payments for imports may be made to the country of origin of the goods or to any other country (with the exception of those countries from which importation is prohibited); they may be made (1) in taka for credit to a nonresi- dent bank account in Bangladesh of the country concerned; (2) in the currency of the country con- cerned; or (3) in any freely convertible currency. Export proceeds must be received in freely convert- ible foreign exchange or in taka from a nonresident taka account. All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Resident and Nonresident Accounts The accounts of individuals, firms, or companies resident in countries outside Bangladesh are desig- nated nonresident accounts. All such accounts are 2Bulgaria, China, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Myanmar, Po- land, Romania, and the former U.S.S.R. 3The AMU is equivalent in value to the SDR and is used for recording transactions through the ACU. regarded for exchange control purposes as accounts related to the country in which the account holder is a permanent resident.4 Nonresident foreign cur- rency accounts may be opened by authorized dealers without the prior approval of Bangladesh Bank in respect of Bangladesh nationals/foreign na- tionals who reside abroad and in respect of foreign firms operating abroad. Specified debits and credits to these accounts may be made by authorized dealers without the prior approval of Bangladesh Bank during the absence of the account holder f rom Bangladesh. Certain other debits and credits may be made without the prior approval of Bangladesh Bank but are subject to reporting ex post. Convertible Taka Accounts. All diplomatic missions operating in Bangladesh, their diplomatic officers, home-based members of the mission s taffs, interna- tional nonprofit human i tar ian organizations func- tioning in Bangladesh and their expatriate em- ployees, foreign contractors and consultants engaged in specific projects, and foreign nationals residing in Bangladesh regardless of their status are allowed to maintain convertible taka accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with the pro- ceeds of inward remittances in convertible foreign exchange and may be debited freely at any time for local disbursements in taka, as well as for remit- tances abroad in convertible currencies. Transfers between convertible taka accounts are freely per- mitted. Foreign missions and embassies, their ex- patriate personnel, foreign airline/shipping com- panies, and international nonprofit organizations in Bangladesh may open interest-bearing accounts, but the interest earned thereon can be disbursed only in local currency. Wage Earners' Scheme (WES). Under the WES, Bangladesh nationals and persons of Bangladesh origin who are working abroad are permitted to open foreign currency accounts denominated in pounds sterling or U.S. dollars. These accounts may be credited with (1) remittances in convertible cur- rencies received from abroad through normal bank- ing and postal channels; (2) proceeds of convertible currencies (currency notes, traveler's checks, drafts, etc.) brought into Bangladesh by the account holders, provided they were declared to customs upon arrival in Bangladesh; (3) transfers from other foreign currency accounts opened under the WES; and (4) transfers from nonresident foreign currency deposit accounts. The accounts may be debited, without restriction, but must be reported to Bangla- desh Bank, for the following purposes: (1) all local 4The accounts of the United Nations and its agencies are treated as resident accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 40 BANGLADESH disbursements; (2) transfers to other foreign cur- rency accounts opened under the WES; (3) payment for imports of specified goods against letters of credit; (4) payment of bank commissions and other bank charges connected with imports; and (5) travel expenditures abroad for business or private pur- poses up to prescribed limits. For travel on private purposes, the upper limit is the equivalent of $400 a person a year (regardless of the number of visits annually) for air travel to Bhutan, India, Maldives, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka (but up to $150 for overland travel to India); and $1,800 a per- son a year and a maximum of $1,200 a trip for travel to other countries. Nonresident Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts. Bangladesh nationals residing abroad; foreign na- tionals, and foreign companies/firms registered and/or incorporated abroad; banks; and other finan- cial institutions, including institutional investors, may open interest-bearing nonresident foreign cur- rency deposit accounts denominated in pounds sterling or U.S. dollars. These accounts, whose terms range from one month to one year, may be credited, in initial minimum amounts of $1,000 or £500 ($25,000 for foreigners), with (1) remittances in convertible currencies, and (2) transfers from exist- ing foreign currency deposit accounts maintained under the WES. The banks pay interest on balances in these accounts at rates that are 1 percentage point higher than Eurocurrency deposit rates. The bal- ance, including interest earned, may be transferred in foreign exchange by the account holder to his country of residence or anywhere he chooses; the account holder, if not otherwise ineligible under the WES, may also transfer the balance to any foreign currency deposit account maintained under the WES. The balances in the accounts, which are freely convertible into taka at the SEM rate (the official rate for foreigners), must be reported by banks monthly to Bangladesh Bank, and the accounts may be re- tained up to five years from the date of the account holder's return to take up permanent residence in Bangladesh; Bangladesh Bank may consider re- quests for fu r ther extension of the time limit. Nonresident Bangladeshis who do not maintain or open a foreign currency deposit account while abroad may also open a nonresident foreign cur- rency deposit with foreign exchange brought in from abroad within six months from the date of their return to take up permanent residence in Ban- gladesh. These accounts may also be maintained up to five years from the date of return to Bangladesh, and Bangladesh Bank may consider requests of fu r- ther extension in cases of necessity. Resident Foreign Currency Deposit (RFCD) Ac- counts. Resident Bangladeshis, at the time of their return from travel abroad, may bring in any amount of foreign currency with declaration and up to $2,500 or the equivalent without declaration and may maintain an RFCD account with the foreign exchange so brought in. However, proceeds of ex- ports of goods and services from Bangladesh or commissions arising from business deals in Bangla- desh are not allowed to be credited to such ac- counts. Balances in these accounts are freely trans- ferable abroad and can be used for fu tu re travels in the usual manner. These accounts may be opened in U.S. dollars and pounds sterling up to five years from the date of last deposit or until the balance is exhausted, whichever is earlier. Payments of inter- est in foreign exchange at rates determined by Ban- gladesh Bank are allowed on balances of not less than $1,000 or £500 if the deposits are for a term of not less than one month. Imports and Import Payments Imports are financed either from Bangladesh's own resources or from foreign aid, loans, and barter arrangements. Imports are guided by an annual IPO announced by the Government. The IPO for the fiscal years 1991/92 and 1992/93 (July to June) was, however, announced in July 1991. It is based on a list of controlled items described according to the Harmonized System of Nomenclature and the Im- port Trade Control (ITC) schedule. The controlled list contains 284 items in the 1,239 categories at the four-digit level of the Harmonized System Codes, following the announcement of liberalization of 70 categories of the list in July 1990. The importation of these items is restricted or prohibited either for so- cial or religious reasons or because similar items are locally produced. Quantitative restrictions on 59 categories of imports were eliminated, and the "right of refusal" provisions on 51 items were re- moved. The IPO prohibits or restricts imports of some raw materials or inputs, certain textiles, fac- tory rejects, goods of substandard quality, used items, and materials inimical to public order or re- ligious beliefs. Items not on these lists are freely importable through the SEM, provided that the im- porter has a valid import registration certificate. Im- ports at the official exchange rate are subject to allocation on the basis of foreign exchange avail- ability. Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. All importers (including all government depart- ments with the exception of the Ministry of De- fense) are required to obtain letter of credit authori- zation forms (LCAFs) for all imports. Under the authority of the IPO issued by the Chief Controller, registered commercial importers are allowed to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH 41 effect imports against LCAFs issued by authorized dealer banks without an import license. For imports under the SEM scheme, an importer is required to have a valid import registration certificate either as a commercial importer or industrial consumer or un- der the SEM scheme. These documents are issued by a licensing office of the Chief Controller of Im- ports and Exports. Single-country LCAFs are issued for imports under bilateral trade or payments agree- ments and for imports under tied aid programs. LCAFs are otherwise valid worldwide, except that imports from Israel and South Africa and imports transported on the flag vessels of Israel and South Africa are prohibited. For shipment of imports in cash and under the SEM scheme, the validity of LCAFs is as follows: (1) 11 months from the date of issuance/registration of an LCAF for commercial items and industrial raw and packing materials; and (2) 17 months from the date of issuance/registration of an LCAF for the importation of capital machinery and spare parts. If these documents lapse for rea- sons beyond the control of the importer, they may be revalidated by the licensing authority. Authorized dealers may e f fect remittances within 12 months of the date of registration of an LCAF for the importa- tion of commercial items and industrial raw mate- rials and packing materials and within 18 months of the date of registration of an LCAF for the importa- tion of capital machinery and spare parts. If the importers require additional time to make remit- tances, then authorized dealers may allow such re- mittances only under the SEM scheme. Payment against imports is generally permissible only under cover of irrevocable letters of credit. Under the SEM scheme, a provision exists for the importation of machinery and equipment against letters of credit opened on a deferred-payment basis for up to 360 days. Raw materials may be imported under letters of credit on a deferred-payment basis up to 180 days. Recognized export-oriented ready- made garments and specialized textile and hosiery units operating under the bonded warehouse sys- tem may effect imports of their raw and packing materials by opening letters of credit on a deferred- payment basis up to 180 days against export letters of credit received by them. Public sector importers may import on a cash-against-documents basis, subject to authorization from Bangladesh Bank. Imports of specified raw materials and packing materials by industrial consumers are governed by an entitlement system, based on the requirements for various industries during each import program period established by the Board of Investment. Firms in the industrial sector are given an entitle- ment to import specified raw materials and packing materials, and letter of credit authorization forms are issued on the basis of the entitlement. The en- titlement system does not apply to raw materials and packing materials that are freely importable— but does apply to items appearing on the controlled list —under the SEM scheme. Separately, industrial consumers may be issued with LCAFs for parts and accessories of machinery. Goods imported against LCAFs issued to industrial consumers must be used in the industry concerned and must not be sold or transferred without prior approval. Authorized dealers may establish letters of credit on an f .o .b. basis without the approval of Bangla- desh Bank, subject to the following conditions: (1) cost of goods, cost of freight, and insurance will be accommodated within the amount recorded in the LCAF issued in favor of the importer; (2) cost of freight will be paid out of the LCAF value locally in local currency; and (3) other directives of the IPO will be duly complied with. Foreign exchange for authorized imports is provided automatically by au- thorized dealers when payments are due. Advance payments for imports require approval from Ban- gladesh Bank, which is normally given only for specialized or capital goods. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles connected with autho- rized trade transactions are generally not re- stricted. Payments for most other invisibles re- quire prior approval and are restricted. Applications for foreign exchange for business travel, medical t rea tmen t, and education abroad are considered on an individual basis. The al- lowance for personal travel by resident Bangla- desh nationals to countries other than Bhu tan, India, Maldives, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka is $1,800 a year, subject to a max imum of $1,200 a visit; the allowance for travel to these seven countries is $400 a person a year. Exporters with export earnings exceeding Tk 100 million during the preceding year are entitled to a maximum business travel allowance of $40,000 a year. Exporters with export earnings exceeding Tk 50 million but not exceeding Tk 100 million in the preceding year are entitled to an allowance equiv- alent to 2 percent of the f .o .b. value of their exports, subject to a maximum of $30,000 a year. Those with export earnings exceeding Tk 2.5 million but not exceeding Tk 50 million in the preceding year are also entitled to an allowance equivalent to 2 percent of the f .o .b. value of their exports, subject to a minimum of $6,000 and a maximum of $20,000 a year; exporters with a performance of up to Tk 2.5 million in the preceding year are allowed up to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 42 BANGLADESH $6,000 a year. New exporters are allowed up to a maximum of $4,000 a year. Export houses are en- titled to business travel allowances equivalent to 2.5 percent of their preceding year's export earn- ings, subject to a minimum of $40,000 and a max- imum of $150,000. All business travel allowances must be purchased at the SEM rate. For medical treatment, the amount granted is the actual require- ment, which must be purchased at the SEM rate, subject to the approval of Bangladesh Bank. A Ban- gladesh national flying abroad is allowed to pur- chase foreign exchange from a foreign currency ac- count under the WES, subject to certain limits (see section on Resident and Nonresident Accounts, above). Foreign nationals working in Bangladesh must obtain approval before making remittances abroad for family maintenance; such approval is usually granted for up to 50 percent of net salaries if the Government has approved the terms of employment. Nonresident travelers may take out the foreign currency and traveler's checks they declared on en- try less the amount sold to authorized dealers or money changers; they may also, without obtaining the approval of Bangladesh Bank, reconvert taka notes up to Tk 6,000 into convertible foreign curren- cies at the time of their departure; if they made no declaration, they may reconvert up to $150. Resi- dent travelers may take out foreign currency and traveler's checks up to the amount of any travel allocation they have been granted. A Bangladeshi or a foreign national may take out Tk 100 in domestic currency; otherwise, the exportation of Bangladesh currency notes and coins is prohibited. Authorized dealers are allowed to remit divi- dends to nonresident shareholders without the prior approval of Bangladesh Bank, on receipt of applications from the companies concerned, which are supported by an audited balance sheet and profit and loss account, a board resolution declaring dividends out of profit derived from the normal business activities of the company, and an auditor's certificate that deduction/provision sufficient to cover tax liabilities has been made. Authorized dealers may remit profits of foreign firms operating in Bangladesh other than banks, insurance com- panies, financial institutions, shipping companies, and airlines to their head office on receipt of applica- tions supported by documentation. These remit- tances are, however, subject to ex post checking by Bangladesh Bank. Applications for remittances of profits to head offices by the latter group of foreign firms are, however, subject to prior approval from Bangladesh Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. The proceeds from exports must be received within four months of shipment. Exports of ju te and ju te goods must be registered with Bangladesh Bank. Since July 1,1989, cash assistance in lieu of XPB has been granted for exports of ju te goods at the follow- ing rates (based on f .o .b. value): (1) 10 percent for sacking; (2) 15 percent for hessian and yarn; and (3) 20 percent for carpet backing and other nontradi- tional ju te goods. For shipments made between July 1989 and June 1990, cash assistance was granted (1) at 5-20 percent of the net f .o .b. value of exports for frozen fish and leather products; (2) at 10 percent of gross value added of exports for non- quota items of garments; and (3) at 10-20 percent of net value added of local sales to exporters of gar- ments for sales of locally produced yarn, hosiery, and handloom fabrics. Cash assistance on exports effected after March 5, 1990 is calculated on the basis of the exchange rate prevailing on March 4, 1990. (See section on Exchange Arrangement, above, regarding the XPB scheme.) Joint ventures, other than in the garment indus- try, located in export processing zones (EPZs) are allowed to retain 70 percent of their export earnings in a foreign currency deposit account and convert the remaining 30 percent at the SEM rate and keep them in a bank account in domestic currency. Bal- ances on domestic currency bank accounts may be converted into foreign exchange at the SEM rate for payments of imported goods. The retention rate for the garment industry is 75 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds from invisibles must be surren- dered, but Bangladesh nationals working abroad may retain their earnings in foreign currency ac- counts or in nonresident foreign currency deposit accounts. Unless specifically exempted by Bangla- desh Bank, all Bangladesh nationals who are resi- dent in Bangladesh must surrender any foreign ex- change coming into their possession, whether held in Bangladesh or abroad, to an authorized dealer within one month of the date of acquisition. Foreign nationals residing in Bangladesh continu- ously for more than six months are required to surrender within one month of the date of acquisi- tion any foreign exchange representing their earn- ings in respect of business conducted in Bangladesh or services rendered while in Bangladesh. Foreign exchange held abroad or in Bangladesh by foreign diplomats and by foreign nationals employed in embassies and missions of foreign countries in Ban- gladesh is, however, exempt from this requirement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH 43 The importation of Bangladesh currency notes and coins exceeding Tk 100 is prohibited. Foreign currency traveler's checks and foreign currency notes may be brought in by nonresident travelers without limit, provided that the total amount brought in is declared to the customs authorities upon arrival. Foreign currency notes may be brought in without limit by any person, provided that the total amount brought in is declared upon arrival. No declaration is required for the importa- tion of foreign exchange not exceeding $2,500 by any person. Capital All outward transfers of capital require approval, which is not normally granted in respect of resident-owned capital. Inward capital transfers also require approval. Movable and immovable as- sets, including foreign exchange, owned in any country other than Bangladesh must be declared to Bangladesh Bank by resident Bangladesh nationals. There is no restriction on the importation of se- curities into Bangladesh. The issuing and transfer of shares in favor of nonresidents against foreign investment are allowed without the prior permis- sion of Bangladesh Bank subject to fulfillment of prescribed procedures. The transfer of Bangladesh shares and securities f rom one nonresident holder to another nonresident holder also does not require prior approval from Bangladesh Bank. Nonresident persons/institutions, including nonresident Bangla- deshis, may buy Bangladesh shares and securities through stock exchanges in Bangladesh against freely convertible foreign currency remitted from abroad through the banking channels. Proceeds from sales and dividends earned on the shares/ securities bought in this manner may be remitted abroad in freely convertible currency. Authorized dealers may obtain short-term loans and overdrafts from overseas branches and corre- spondents for a period not exceeding seven days at a time. Private sector industrial units in Bangladesh may borrow funds from abroad with the approval of the Board of Investment. Borrowing by non- resident-owned or controlled enterprises and lend- ing by authorized dealers in local currency against overseas guarantees or collateral outside Bangla- desh also require approval. They may grant, with- out reference to Bangladesh Bank, an unlimited amount of loans in domestic currency to foreign- owned manufacturing companies located in Ban- gladesh according to the banking norms. Autho- rized dealers may also approve loans, overdrafts, or credit facilities against goods intended for exporta- tion from Bangladesh to companies controlled by persons resident outside Bangladesh. Authorized dealers must obtain approval before making any loans in foreign currencies to residents or nonresi- dents, whether secured or unsecured. They are not normally permitted to hold short-term foreign as- sets other than small working balances. Foreign private investment is governed by the Foreign Private Investment (Promotion and Protec- tion) Act of 1980, and is permitted in collaboration with both the Government and private en- trepreneurs. The act provides for the protection and equitable treatment of foreign private investment, indemnification, protection against expropriation and nationalization, and guarantee for repatriation of investment. In the private sector, however, for- eign participation is limited to those industries where technical know-how is not locally available, where the technology involved is very complicated, or where capital outlay is high, and to industries that are either based on local raw materials or that are wholly export-oriented. For a new investment, foreign investors are gen- erally required to provide as equity capital the entire amount of the project's foreign exchange compo- nent. There is no ceiling on private investment, but investments above Tk 100 million need special ap- proval. Tax holidays are granted for periods of up to nine years, depending on location. All investments in which the foreign equity portion exceeds 49 per- cent require the approval of the Investment Board. Nonresidents must also obtain the permission of Bangladesh Bank to continue to operate or to estab- lish an office or branch in Bangladesh for the pur- pose of trading, or for commercial or industrial ac- tivities. Dividends on foreign capital may be remitted freely after payment of taxes. Gold The importation and exportation of gold and sil- ver in any form are prohibited without special per- mission, which is not normally granted. Exports of gold are allowed only in jewelry form under the Jewelry Export Scheme. There are no restrictions on the internal sale, purchase, or possession of gold or silver ornaments (including coins) and jewelry, but there is a prohibition on the holding of gold and silver in all other forms except by licensed indus- trialists or dentists. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement February 27. The external value of the taka has been ad ju s ted on several occasions since early Ju ly 1991, f rom Tk 35.79 per US$1 at the end of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 44 BANGLADESH June 1991 to Tk 38.58 per US$1 on December 31, 1991; the secondary exchange market ra te (SEM) changed f rom Tk 36.505 per US$1 to Tk 38.725 per US$1. As a result, the d i f fe rence between the o f f i- cial and the SEM rates declined to 0.38 percent f rom 2 percen t. Prescription of Currency January 3. A special trading agreement between Elite International Bangladesh and Eisner, Austria was signed. The agreement would be effective until January 2, 1992. March 27. A special trading agreement between the Trading Corporation of Bangladesh (TCB) and Unitrac, Switzerland was signed. The agreement would be effective until March 26, 1992. Resident and Nonresident Accounts June 15. The time limit for maintaining NFCD accounts by Bangladesh nationals on their perma- nent return to Bangladesh was increased to five years from one year; Bangladesh Bank may consider requests for fur ther extension of the time limit in cases of necessity. These returning Bangladesh na- tionals may maintain foreign currency accounts/ NFCD accounts/education foreign currency ac- counts within six months from the date of their return with foreign exchange they brought in with them provided they did not maintain foreign cur- rency accounts during their stay abroad. June 15. Resident Bangladeshis were allowed to open and maintain foreign currency accounts with foreign exchange brought into Bangladesh at the time of their return from travel abroad. Amounts that are declared and amounts up to $2,500 that are not declared to the Customs Authority would be allowed to be credited to these accounts. Crediting of proceeds f rom exports of goods and services or commissions earned on businesses in Bangladesh to these accounts would not be allowed. These ac- counts may be maintained for up to five years from the date of deposit. Interest payments would be allowed on a prescribed minimum balance. Imports and Import Payments February 19. The advance deposit requirement for commercial imports was lowered to 25 percent from 50 percent. April 12. The advance deposit requirement for commercial imports was lowered to 20 percent from 25 percent. October 2. The advance deposit requirement for commercial imports was lowered to 10 percent f rom 20 percent. November 30. The 10 percent advance deposit requirement for commercial imports was abolished. Payments for Invisibles June 15. The foreign exchange allowance for travel by Bangladesh nationals to countries other than Bhutan, India, Maldives, Myanmar, Nepal, Pak- istan, and Sri Lanka was increased to $1,800 a per- son a year, subject to a maximum of $1,200 a visit. The allowance for travel to the above seven countries was increased to $400 a person a year (the same levels as those that existed before August 20, 1990, when the respective limits were reduced to $1,200, $500, and $300). Proceeds from Invisibles June 15. The upper limit on foreign exchange that may be brought into Bangladesh without declara- tion at the time of arrival was increased to $2,500 a person, irrespective of the resident status of the person. Capital February 26. The upper limit on borrowing by foreign-owned and -controlled manufacturing com- panies incorporated in Bangladesh on the domestic capital market was removed. June 15. (I) The requirement to obtain prior per- mission from Bangladesh Bank to issue and transfer shares in favor of nonresidents against foreign in- vestment in industrial ventures in Bangladesh was waived, except for the requirement to meet certain procedural formalities; (2) the requirement to ob- tain prior permission from Bangladesh Bank to transfer Bangladesh shares and securities from one nonresident holder to another nonresident was waived; (3) purchases of Bangladesh shares and securities by nonresidents, including nonresident Bangladeshis, in stock exchange in Bangladesh were allowed, subject to meeting certain procedural requirements (transfers abroad of dividends from such shares and securities were also permitted); (4) industrial units in the private sector were permit- ted to borrow abroad on commercial terms with the approval of the Board of Investment; and (5) the requirement to obtain prior permission from Ban- gladesh Bank to remit profits earned by nonbank and nonfinancial foreign firms operating in Bangla- desh was waived, subject to ex post checking of remittance records. October 26. The restrictions on remittances of profits by tea companies were removed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Barbados is the Barbados Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at BDS$2 per US$1. On December 31,1991, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were BDS$1.9975 and BDS$2.0350, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for the Canadian dol- lar, the deutsche mark, and the pound sterling are also officially quoted. These rates include commission charges of 0.125 percent buying and 1.75 percent selling, against the U.S. dollar, and 0.1875 percent buying and 1.8125 percent selling, against the Cana- dian dollar, the deutsche mark, and the pound ster- ling. On December 31, 1991, the buying and selling rates of the Central Bank of Barbados for the Cana- dian dollar were BDS$1.7236 and BDS$1.7582, respec- tively, per Can$l; those for the deutsche mark were BDS$1.3137 and BDS$1.3400, respectively, per DM 1; and those for the pound sterling were BDS$3.7265 and BDS$3.8012, respectively, per £ stg. 1. Under clearing arrangements with regional mon- etary authorities, the Central Bank sells currencies of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM) coun- tries1 at fixed rates (including a commission of 0.1875 percent) but purchases only Eastern Carib- bean dollar notes. The rate applied mutually for the purchase of currency notes is the parity rate be- tween each pair of currencies determined on the basis of the U.S. dollar rate. The Central Bank regu- lates the commission that the commercial banks may charge in dealings with their customers in CAR- ICOM currencies. Purchases of foreign exchange for private sector remittances abroad (except for remit- tances for payment of imports, travel allowances, education, and nontrade payments up to BDS$500 and certain other specified items) are subject to a levy collected in the approval process by the Central Bank at the rate of 1 percent of the value of the transaction. The Central Bank periodically obtains forward cover in the international foreign exchange market to cover or hedge its own or the Central Govern- ment's exchange risks associated with foreign ex- change loans that are not denominated in U.S. dol- lars. Commercial banks are allowed to obtain for- aThe CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Ja- maica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. ward cover in the international markets. The Central Bank and commercial banks enter into swap trans- actions in U.S. dollars, while commercial banks may freely switch between nonregional currencies. Administration of Control Exchange control applies to all countries and is administered by the Central Bank. The Central Bank delegates to authorized dealers the authority to ap- prove normal import payments and the allocation of foreign exchange for certain other current payments and for cash gifts. The exchange control system stipu- lates that foreign exchange should normally be sur- rendered to an authorized dealer. The normal ex- change control directives do not apply to transactions between residents and persons who are residents of South Africa. Trade controls are administered by the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Commerce. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of countries outside the CARICOM area other than South Africa may be made in any foreign currency,2 or through an external ac- count in Barbados dollars. Settlements with residents of CARICOM countries, other than Jamaica, must be made either through external accounts (in Barbados dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned, except that commercial banks may issue CARICOM traveler's checks denominated in Trinidad and Tobago dollars to Barbadian residents traveling to other CARICOM countries, within the approved limits for travel allowances. With effect from September 21, 1991, the Bank of Jamaica abolished exchange control in Jamaica; as a result, settlements with residents of Jamaica are made in U.S. dollars. Resident and Nonresident Accounts With the permission of the Central Bank, autho- rized dealers may maintain in foreign currencies foreign currency accounts in the names of residents of Barbados and of other countries. Approval for opening these accounts is given on the basis of the anticipated frequency of receipts and payments in foreign currency. Certain receipts and payments may be credited and debited to foreign currency 2Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Barbados dollar. 45 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 46 BARBADOS accounts under the conditions of approval estab- lished at the time the account was opened. Other credits and debits require individual approval. Authorized dealers may open external accounts for nonresidents without reference to the Central Bank. These accounts are maintained in Barbados dollars. They may be credited with proceeds from the sale of foreign currencies, with transfers from other external accounts, with bank interest (payable on external accounts or blocked accounts), and with payments by residents for which the Central Bank has given general or specific permission. They may be debited for payments to residents of Barbados, for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel or business purposes, and for any other payments covered by delegated authority to authorized dealers. Other debits and any overdrafts require individual approval. The Exchange Control Act of 1967 (as amended) empowers the Central Bank to require certain pay- ments in favor of nonresidents that are ineligible for transfer to be credited to blocked accounts. Balances in blocked accounts may not be withdrawn without approval, other than for the purchase of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited, and certain imports originating in non-CARicoM countries require individual licenses. Import-licensing require- ments and quantitative restrictions are the chief tools of Barbadian external commercial policy. The list of products subject to licensing is extensive. However, not all goods that are subject to import licensing are subject to quantitative restriction. Some items on the import-licensing list may be freely imported through- out the year, while some others are subject to tempo- rary restriction (particularly agricultural products, which tend to be subject to seasonal restriction). Cer- tain imports are prohibited; these include various foodstuffs, blue jeans, and beer not produced within the CARICOM area. There is also a "negative list" of certain garments, whose importation is prohibited if the product has less than a minimum c.i.f. value. Individual licenses are also required for imports of commodities that are subject to the provisions of the Oils and Fats Agreement between the governments of Barbados, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and To- bago, whether the goods are being imported from CARICOM countries or from elsewhere. Special licens- ing arrangements have been made for the regulation of trade between Barbados and other CARICOM coun- tries in 22 agricultural commodities. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence (invoices and customs warrants) to autho- rized dealers; payments for imports of crude oil and its derivatives are subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank. Authorized dealers may release for- eign currency for advance payments for imports into Barbados up to the equivalent of BD$20,000 (c . i . f . ). Payments over BD$20,000 require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange control approval. Except for transactions involving residents of South Africa, payments for all commercial transac- tions are permitted freely when the application is supported by appropriate documentary evidence. Authority has been delegated to authorized dealers to provide basic allocations of foreign exchange for certain payments of a personal nature and for sundry payments. These include foreign travel (for which up to BDS$2,000 a person a calendar year may be allo- cated for private travel inside or outside the CARICOM area; and BDS$500 a day, up to BDS$10,000 a person a calendar year, for business travel inside the CARICOM area, and BDS$15,000 outside the CARICOM area), expenses for education abroad (BDS$20,000 a person a year), remittances of cash gifts not exceeding BDS$500 a donor a year, subscriptions to newspapers and magazines (BD$500 a person a year), income tax refunds, official payments, and life insurance pre- miums. Applications for additional amounts or for purposes for which there is no basic allocation are approved by the authorities, provided that no unau- thorized transfer of capital appears to be involved. The cost of transportation to any destination may be settled in domestic currency and is not deducted from the travel allocation. Any person traveling to a destination outside Bar- bados may take out foreign currency notes and coins up to the value of BDS$500 and Barbados notes up to BDS$200. Nonresident visitors may freely export any foreign currency they previously brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. Specific licenses are required for the exportation of certain goods to any country; these include rice, cane sugar, rum, molasses, and certain other food prod- ucts, sewing machines, portland cement, and pe- troleum products. All other goods may be exported without license. The collection of export proceeds is supervised by the Central Bank to ensure that pro- ceeds in foreign currencies are surrendered within ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS 47 six months of the date of shipment. Exports of sugar to the United Kingdom and the United States are subject to bilateral export quotas, as are exports of rum to the European Community. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from invisibles must be sold to authorized dealers. Travelers to Barbados may freely bring in notes and coins denominated in Bar- bados dollars or in any foreign currency. Residents are required to sell their holdings of foreign currencies to an authorized dealer upon return to Barbados. Capital All outward capital transfers, including direct in- vestments by residents and the purchase by resi- dents of foreign currency securities and of real es- tate abroad, require exchange control approval. Certificates of title to foreign currency securities held by residents must be lodged with an autho- rized depository in Barbados, and earnings on these securities must be repatriated and surrendered to an authorized dealer. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances due to nonresidents, require exchange control approval. Transfers in respect of inheritances are restricted to BDS$20,000 a year for each nonresident beneficiary. Dowries in the form of settlements and cash gifts may be transferred to nonresidents under delegated au- thority, normally up to BDS$500 a donor a year. Emi- grating Barbadian nationals are granted settling-in allowances from their declared assets at the rate of BDS$20,000 a family unit a year. The Central Bank also considers applications from foreign nationals who have resided in Barbados and are proceeding to take up permanent residence abroad, provided that they declare their assets held in Barbados. Direct investment by nonresidents may be made with exchange control approval. The remittance of earnings on, and liquidation of proceeds from, such investment is permitted, subject to the submission of documentary evidence as to the validity of the remittance, the discharge of any liabilities related to the investment, and the registration of the original investment with the Central Bank. The issuance and transfer to nonresidents of se- curities registered in Barbados require exchange control approval, which is freely given provided that an adequate amount of foreign currency is brought in for their purchase. Proceeds from the realization of these securities may be remitted when it is established that the original investment was financed from foreign currency sources. Nonresi- dents may acquire real estate in Barbados for private purposes with funds f rom foreign currency sources; local currency financing is not ordinarily permitted. Proceeds f rom the realization of such investments equivalent to the amount of foreign currency brought in may be repatriated freely. Capi- tal sums realized in excess of this amount may be repatriated freely on the basis of a calculated rate of return on the original foreign investment, as fol- lows: for the last five years, at 8 percent a year; for the five years immediately preceding the last five years, at 5 percent; and for any period preceding the last ten years, at 4 percent. Amounts in excess of the sum so derived are restricted to the remittance of BDS$24,000 a year. The approval of the Central Bank is required for residents to borrow abroad or for nonresidents to borrow in Barbados. Authorized dealers may as- sume short-term liability positions in foreign cur- rencies for the financing of approved transfers in respect of both trade and nontrade transactions. They may also freely accept deposits f rom nonresi- dents. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the Central Bank. A 6 percent tax is levied on portfolio investments of pension funds with foreign companies unregistered with the Barbados Supervisor of Insurance. Gold Gold coins with face values of BDS$100, BDS$150, BDS$200, and BDS$500 are legal tender and are in limited circulation. Residents who are private persons are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Otherwise, any gold ac- quired in Barbados must be surrendered to an autho- rized dealer, unless exchange control approval is ob- tained for its retention. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, and indus- trial users are not permitted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes. The importation of gold by residents is permitted for industrial purposes and is subject to customs duties and charges. Licenses to import gold are issued by the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Commerce; no license is required to export gold, but exchange control permission is required to do so. Changes During 1991 Imports and Import Payments July 3. The list of merchandise imports for which authorized dealers are allowed to sell foreign ex- change for advance payments was shortened. The limit of BDS$20,000 (c . i . f. basis), however, remained unchanged. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Belgium is the Belgian Franc, and the currency of Luxembourg is the Luxembourg Franc. Belgium and Luxembourg are linked in a monetary association, and the Luxembourg franc is at par with the Belgian franc. Belgium and Lux- embourg participate with Denmark, France, Ger- many, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, and the United Kingdom in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism (ERM) of the Eu- ropean Monetary System (EMS).1 In accordance with this agreement, Belgium and Luxembourg maintain the spot exchange rates between their cur- rencies and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 2.25 percent (in the case of the Portuguese escudo, the pound sterling, and the Spanish peseta, 6 percent) above or below the cross rates derived from the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the National Bank of Belgium stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1991, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates per: 100 Danish kroner 100 deutsche mark 100 French francs 1 Irish pound 1,000 Italian lire 100 Netherlands guilders 1,000 Portuguese escudos1 1 pound sterling 100 Spanish pesetas 1 Effective April 6, 1992. Belgian Francs or L,UAC111L>UL ng i i a i i ca Upper limit Lower limit 553.000 2,109.500 628.970 56.5115 28.1930 528.700 2,016.550 601.295 54.0250 26.9530 1,872.150 1,789.850 251.900 64.6050 33.6930 223.435 57.3035 29.8850 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper func- tioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the inter- aW i th effect from April 6, 1992, Portugal participates in the ERM of the EMS. vention currencies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On December 31, 1991, the indicative middle rate for the U.S. dollar was BF 31.27 per US$1. Banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currency, and they may deal among themselves and with residents and nonresidents in foreign notes and coins. Belgium and Luxembourg formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control There are no exchange controls. The Belgium- Luxembourg Administrative Commission has the authority to license trade transactions; it determines import and export policy but has delegated au- thority to issue import and export licenses to the licensing offices of the Belgium-Luxembourg Eco- nomic Union (BLEU), one of which is located in each country. Bank supervision in Belgium is exercised by the Banking and Finance Commission, and in Luxembourg, by the Luxembourg Monetary In- stitute (LMI). For purposes of compiling balance of payments statistics, residents are required to transmit to the Belgium-Luxembourg Exchange Institute (BLEI) the following information on all of their professional transactions with foreign countries: amount, cur- rency, economic nature, and country of residence of the foreign party in the transaction. For foreign pay- ments executed or received through a bank in Belgium or Luxembourg, residents provide this in- formation to the BLEI through their banks; for all other professional foreign transactions, residents report to the BLEI directly on a monthly basis. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports may be made freely. Indi- vidual licenses are required for (1) certain imports from Albania, Bulgaria, China, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the former 48 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG 49 U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam;2 and (2) certain specified imports from all other countries.3 Products for which individual licenses are required include many textile and steel products, certain agricultural products and foodstuffs, coal and petroleum prod- ucts, diamonds, semiprocessed gold, and weapons. All other commodities are free of license. Many commodities subject to individual licensing are also admitted without quantitative restriction. Along with other European Community (EC) countries, the BLEU applies quotas on a number of textile products from non-EC countries; the BLEU also applies a system of minimum import prices to for- eign steel products. Imports from non-EC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) of the EC are subject to import levies, which have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely. Domestic and foreign bank notes and coins and other means of payment may be exported freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Individual licenses are required for exports of specified products, such as weapons, strategic products, and agricultural products. Individual li- censes are also required for steel products exported to the United States.4 All other exports are free of license. Foreign ex- change proceeds from exports do not have to be surrendered and may be used for all payments. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on the receipt of pay- ments for services rendered to nonresidents. Do- 2Import licenses are issued freely for a large number of prod- ucts when originating in and shipped from these countries. 3Most imports do not require an import license when imported from the member countries of the EC. 4Most exports do not require an export license when exported to the member countries of the EC. mestic and foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be imported freely. Capital Residents and nonresidents may export capital freely. Investments, whether direct or portfolio, may be freely made in the BLEU by nonresidents or abroad by residents. There are no restrictions on transactions in Belgian or Luxembourg franc or for- eign currency securities, which may be exported or imported without formality. Banks may freely ac- cept foreign currency deposits f rom residents or nonresidents. The prior approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for issues of securities on the Belgian capi- tal market by nonresidents and for public bids by nonresidents for the purchase or exchange of shares issued by Belgian companies.5 Franc-denominated bonds may be issued freely on the Luxembourg capital market. They are re- ported ex post to the Luxembourg Monetary In- stitute, mainly for statistical purposes. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in coins or bars, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in these forms by residents and non- residents are unrestricted and free of license; licenses are required for imports of semiprocessed gold. Set- tlements of gold may be made freely. Imports and transactions in monetary gold are subject to a value- added tax in Belgium at a rate of 1 percent. Changes During 1991 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EC-wide basis during 1991, page 557.) 5Since January 1,1991, this approval is no longer needed if the foreign company or individual involved is a resident of an EC country. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELIZE (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Accounts The currency of Belize is the Belize Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at a rate of BZ$1 = US$0.50. The buying and selling rates for transactions between the Central Bank of Belize and the commercial banks are BZ$1.9937 and BZ$2.0063 per US$1, respectively. On December 31,1991, the buying and selling rates in transactions between the banks and members of the public were BZ$1.9825 and BZ$2.0175 per US$1, respectively. The Central Bank quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar, the pound sterling, and a num- ber of currencies of member countries of CARICOM.1 A stamp duty of 1.25 percent is levied on all conver- sions from the Belize dollar to a foreign currency. Belize accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on June 14, 1983. Administration of Control The Central Bank is responsible for administering exchange control, which is applicable to all coun- tries. Authority covering a wide range of operations is delegated to the commercial banks in their capac- ity as authorized dealers. Only in exceptional cases or in applications involving substantial amounts is reference made directly to the Central Bank. How- ever, all applications for foreign exchange processed by authorized dealers are regularly forwarded to the Central Bank for audit and record keeping. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry administers trade controls. Prescription of Currency The only prescription of currency requirement relates to a specified list of currencies2 in which authorized intermediaries are permitted to deal with the public. Payments to a CARICOM member country must be made in the currency of that country. aThe CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Ja- maica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. The Central Bank quotes exchange rates for Barbados dollars, Eastern Caribbean dollars, Guyana dollars, Jamaica dollars, and Trinidad and To- bago dollars. 2Barbados dollars, Canadian dollars, Eastern Caribbean dol- lars, Guyana dollars, Jamaica dollars, pounds sterling, Trinidad and Tobago dollars, and U.S. dollars. The permission of the Central Bank is needed for banks to open external or foreign currency ac- counts. The Central Bank may also stipulate that sums to be credited or paid to foreign residents be credited to a blocked account. Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports require authorization from the Central Bank; in most cases such authorization is delegated to the commercial banks. For reasons of health, standardization, and protection of domestic industries, import licenses from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry are required for a number of goods —mostly food and agricultural products, and certain household and construction products; such licenses are liberally administered. There are no quota limits or other quantitative restrictions for balance of payments reasons. Most imports are sub- ject to a stamp duty of 12 percent of the c . i . f. value; the rate of stamp duty on citrus is 25 percent. Im- ports by most of the public sector and certain non- profit entities, imports of an emergency or human- itarian nature, and goods for re-export are exempt from import duties; goods originating from the CARICOM area are also exempt. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invis- ibles. Authorized dealers have the power to provide foreign exchange for such payments within certain limits. The following limits are applied to purchases of foreign exchange: (1) nonbusiness travel by resi- dents, up to BZ$2,500 a person a calendar year; (2) business travel by residents, BZ$500 a day a person, up to BZ$10,000 a year; (3) business or non- business travel by nonresidents, BZ$500 a person a year, except where payment is made from an exter- nal account or from proceeds of foreign currency; and (4) gifts, BZ$100 a donor. Requests in excess of these amounts are referred to the Central Bank, which grants all bona fide requests. Foreign ex- change is provided for payment of correspondence courses by the authorized dealers when applica- tions are properly documented. Exports of foreign and domestic bank notes and currency are subject to limits as follows: each trav- eler may carry domestic bank notes up to BZ$100 and the equivalent of BZ$400 in foreign currency, 50 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELIZE 51 except that a visitor may take out such notes up to the amount imported. Amounts beyond these limits require the approval of the Central Bank, which is liberally granted when jus t if ied. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for most export prod- ucts. Export proceeds must be surrendered to au- thorized dealers not later than six months af ter the date of shipment, unless directed otherwise by the Central Bank. A small number of items3 are subject to an ad valorem export duty of 5 percent. Re- exports and transshipments are subject to a 3 per- cent customs administration fee. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from invisibles must be sold to an authorized dealer. Travelers to Belize are free to bring in notes and coins denominated in Belize dollars up to BZ$100 a person, but there are no restrictions on imports of foreign currency. Resi- 3Lobster, shrimp, conch, fish, turtles, mahogany, and wild animals. For sugar, the export du ty is 2 percent. dent travelers are required to sell their excess hold- ings of foreign currencies to an authorized dealer upon their return to Belize. Capital All capital transfers require the approval of the Central Bank, but control is liberally administered. Direct foreign investment is encouraged and inves- tors benefit from a number of fiscal incentives. Gold Residents may not hold gold except with specific authorization from the Central Bank. Gold may be neither imported nor exported without the approval of the Central Bank. Changes During 1991 Payments for Invisibles November 1. The limit on foreign exchange educa- tion allowance abroad was abolished, and autho- rized dealers were permitted to provide foreign ex- change for correspondence courses when appli- cations are properly documented. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Benin is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.02. The official buying and selling rate is CFAF 50 per F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. They include a bank commission of 2.5 per mill on transfers to all non-West African Monetary Union (WAMU) coun- tries, which must be surrendered in its entirety to the Treasury. Banks may levy a f lat commission of CFAF 100 on intra-WAMU transfers, which they may retain. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Forward ex- change contracts may be arranged, with the prior authorization of the Minister of Finance, for pay- ments for specified imports. The maturity period cannot be extended. With the exception of those relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, Benin's ex- change control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Oper- ations Account (Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries but, for purposes of certain controls relating to capital flows, the coun- tries specified in this paragraph are also regarded as foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate of Monetary and Banking Affairs in the Ministry of Finance, in conjunction with the Directorate of External Commerce in the Ministry of Commerce, Handicrafts, and Tourism. The Ministry of Finance, however, has the main responsibility for drawing up the exchange control regulations, in collaboration with the BCEAO. The BCEAO is authorized to col- JThe CFA franc is issued by the Banque centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. lect, either directly or through banks, financial in- stitutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public, any information necessary to compile bal- ance of payments statistics. All exchange transac- tions relating to foreign countries must be carried out by authorized intermediaries. Import licenses for goods from Africa, the Caribbean, and Pacific (ACP) group countries under the Lome Convention and from member countries of European Com- munity (EC) and Operations Account countries have been abolished. Only imports from countries other than the above-mentioned countries are sub- ject to an import license issued by the Directorate in charge of External Commerce. Exports of diamonds and other precious or semiprecious metals require authorization from the Directorate of External Com- merce, upon recommendation by the Directorate of Monetary and Banking A f fa i rs of the Minister of Finance. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since Benin is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and other coun- tries linked to the French Treasury through an Op- erations Account are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Ac- count country. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Certain settlements with China and specified socialist coun- tries, however, are made through special accounts.2 All settlements with South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may hold foreign accounts in francs with authorized intermediary banks. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA bank notes, French 2There is an inoperative payments agreement with Hungary. 52 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN 53 bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other in- stitute of issue that maintains an Operations Ac- count with the French Treasury is not permitted, except for BCEAO bank notes mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Cotonou by an authorized inter- mediary bank's foreign correspondent for credit to a foreign account in francs opened by the latter with an authorized intermediary bank. Foreign accounts in francs may be debited, without prior authoriza- tion, with the value of BCEAO bank notes mailed by authorized intermediaries direct to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in or proceeding from South Africa are prohibited. Certain imports, such as narcotics, are prohibited from all sources. Cer- tain agencies have an import monopoly for specified commodities. Imports of goods originating from the EC, the Operations Account countries, and countries be- longing to the ACP group are free of import- licensing requirements. All merchandise imports originating from the other countries are subject to prior authorization from the Directorate of Foreign Trade. Before shipment, goods from all sources are subject to inspection for quality and price. All imports originating in foreign countries, when valued at more than CFAF 500,000, must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary bank. The import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened, or on the due date of payment if the commodities have already been im- ported. Import licenses are subject to a tax equiv- alent to 0.85 percent of the c . i .f. value of corre- sponding imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments to South Africa are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries linked to the French Trea- sury through an Operations Account are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Directorate of External Commerce, but for many types of invisibles the approval au- thority has been delegated to authorized intermedi- ary banks. Authorized banks and the Postal Admin- istration have been empowered to make payments abroad freely on behalf of residents, up to CFAF 50,000 a transfer. Payments for invisibles re- lated to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also subject to prior authorization. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a trip for each person (CFAF 87,500 for children under 10 years) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 remaining after return to Benin must be surrendered. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. How- ever, with the special authorization of the Minister of Finance, larger allocations may be obtained up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000 a person a trip for tourist travel and up to the equivalent of CFAF 1,750,000 for business travel. The transfer of one half of the net salary of a foreigner working in Benin is permitted, subject to authorization from the Directorate of Monetary and Banking Affairs upon presentation of the appropri- ate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Resi- dents traveling to Operations Account countries may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes, but if proceeding to a country that is not a member of the WAMU, they must declare to customs the amount they take out if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may take out any unused foreign bank notes and coins up to the amount they declared on entry, subject to adjustment for amounts exchanged for CFA francs or obtained by exchange of foreign currency. Nonresident travelers may take out freely the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by the countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account; a max- imum amount equivalent to CFAF 25,000 in foreign bank notes; and any amount in other foreign means of payment (traveler's checks, etc.) established abroad and in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Ex- ports to all foreign countries, including the Opera- tions Account Area, must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary bank when valued at more than CFAF 500,000. Exports are permitted on the basis of a simple authorization from the Directorate of Foreign Trade. Exports of gold, diamonds, and all other precious metals, however, are subject to prior authorization from the Ministry of Finance, with the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 54 BENIN exception of articles made of gold with a small gold content, travelers' personal effects weighing less than 500 grams, and coins (fewer than ten pieces, irrespective of their face value and denomination). Prior authorization for exports of these three prod- uct categories is granted by the Directorate of Mone- tary and Banking Affa irs of the Ministry of Finance. Receipts from exports must be collected within 180 days of the arrival of the shipment at its destination. Proceeds must be repatriated to Benin through the BCEAO, and they must be sold to authorized banks within 30 days of the contractual due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries maintaining Operations Accounts with the French Treasury may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from for- eign assets must be collected and surrendered. Res- ident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of coun- tries outside the Operations Account Area; resi- dents bringing in foreign bank notes and foreign currency traveler's checks in excess of CFAF 5,000 must declare them to customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized intermediary bank within eight days. Capital Transfers of capital between Benin and South Af- rica are prohibited. Capital movements between Be- nin and France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account are free of exchange control; most capital transfers to all other countries require prior approval from the Minister of Finance and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable) are main- tained over borrowing abroad, over inward foreign direct investment and all outward investment in foreign countries, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Benin. Such operations require prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Beninese Govern- ment, and (2) shares that are similar to or may be substituted for securities whose issuance or sale in Benin has already been authorized. With the excep- tion of controls over foreign securities, these mea- sures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the WAMU, and the countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account. Special controls are also main- tained over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit or investment with foreign private persons and foreign firms and in- stitutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries maintaining Operations Accounts. All investments abroad by residents of Benin re- quire prior authorization from the Minister of Fi- nance; at least 75 percent of such investments must be financed from foreign borrowing.3 Foreign direct investments in Benin4 must be declared to the Min- ister before they are made. The Minister may re- quest the postponement of the operations within a period of two months. The full or partial liquidation of either type of investment also requires declara- tion. Both the making and the liquidation of invest- ments, whether these are Beninese investments abroad or foreign investments in Benin, must be reported to the Minister and to the BCEAO within 20 days of each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a com- pany or enterprise. Mere participation is not consid- ered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Borrowing by residents f rom nonresidents re- quires prior authorization from the Minister of Fi- nance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct in- vestment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance operations abroad, by international merchanting and export-import firms (approved by the Minister of Finance) to finance transit trade, or by any type of firm to finance imports and exports; (3) loans contracted by authorized intermediary banks; and (4) subject to certain conditions, loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Benin and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Benin. including those made by companies in Benin that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Benin. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN 55 new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The repayment of loans not con- stituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the Minister of Finance if the loan itself was subject to such approval but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject to prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The Investment Code (Law No. 90-002 of May 9, 1990) provides for preferential status that may be granted to foreign and domestic investments in in- dustry, mining, fisheries, agriculture, and tourism, when such investments are deemed to contribute to national development. Fiscal benefits are extended to approved investors under two regimes: the pref- erential and the special regimes. The preferential regime consists of three categories: A, B, and C. Category A applies to small and medium-size enter- prises; Category B, to large enterprises; and Category C, to very large enterprises. Enterprises falling under Category A must have investments valued at between CFAF 20 million and CFAF 500 million and employ at least five perma- nent Beninese workers. These enterprises are en- titled to customs duties and levy exemptions on equipment and materials during the investment period (excluding the local roads and statistical taxes) and exemption from income tax for five to nine years depending on the geographic location of their investment in Benin. Enterprises qualifying for Category B must undertake investments valued in excess of CFAF 500 million (but less than CFAF 3 billion) and employ at least twenty Beninese workers. These enterprises are exempt from vir- tually all border taxes on imports of equipment and materials for the period the investment is being undertaken, and, for the duration of the invest- ment, they are exempt from export taxes and from taxes on profits. Enterprises qualifying for Category C benefits must undertake investments in excess of CFAF 3 billion. They enjoy the same tax and duty privileges as Category B enterprises. In addition, enterprises in this category are guaran- teed stability of tax status for the duration of the agreement. Enterprises qualifying under the special regime are those with investments valued at between CFAF 5 million and CFAF 20 million and provide services in the health, education, or public works areas. These enterprises benefit from a 75 percent reduction in the applicable border taxes (excluding the local roads and statistical taxes) on imported equipment and materials related to their opera- tions. The modalities of implementing this legisla- tion are set out in Decree No. 91-2 of January 4, 1991. Gold An authorization by the Directorate of External Commerce, issued after a favorable ruling by the Directorate of Monetary and Banking Affairs of the Minister of Finance, is required to hold, sell, import, export, or deal in raw diamonds and precious and semiprecious materials. In practice, residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Benin. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization from the Minister of Commerce, Handicrafts, and Tourism, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCE AO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold- plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by trav- elers of gold articles up to a maximum weight to be determined by an Order of the Minister. Both li- censed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1991 Imports and Import Payments February 1. A system of inspection of goods im- ported into Benin was introduced (Decree No. 91-23). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BHUTAN (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bhutan is the Ngultrum. Since its introduction in 1974, it has been pegged to the In- dian rupee, which also circulates in Bhutan, at a rate of Nu 1 per Rs 1. The rates for currencies other than the Indian rupee are determined on the basis of the prevailing quotations by the Reserve Bank of India for those currencies. If no large transactions are involved, exchange rates for other currencies may be determined on the basis of the most recent quota- tions by the Reserve Bank of India. No other ex- change rates apply to international transactions, and there are no subsidies or taxes on exchange transactions. On December 31, 1991, the buying and selling rates of the ngultrum for the U.S. dollar were Nu 25.515 and Nu 26.230 per US$1, respec- tively. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance controls external transac- tions and provides foreign exchange for most cur- rent and capital transactions. Beginning from July 26, 1985, substantial powers are delegated by the Ministry of Finance to the Royal Monetary Au- thority to release foreign exchange (other than In- dian rupees) for current transactions. The Royal Monetary Authority is in charge of implementing the surrender requirements for proceeds from mer- chandise exports and approving the use of foreign exchange for imports. Prescription of Currency There are no regulations prescribing the use of specific currencies in external receipts and payments. Imports and Import Payments All import payments other than those made in Indian rupees are subject to prior permission from the Royal Monetary Authority, which has discre- tionary authority to deny foreign exchange for the payment of luxury imports. Customs duties are levied on imports other than those from India. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no export taxes. Exports to countries other than India receive a rebate at one of four rates ranging from 5 percent to 20 percent of the c . i . f. value, with the lowest rate applying to unprocessed primary products and the highest rate applying to processed products. Exports of antiques of Bhutanese origin require approval by the Govern- ment. Proceeds of exports in currencies other than the Indian rupee must be surrendered to the Royal Monetary Authority either directly or through the Bank of Bhutan. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Most invisible payments other than those made in Indian rupees are subject to approval by the Royal Monetary Authority. All receipts from invisible trans- actions in currencies other than the Indian rupee must be surrendered to the Royal Monetary Authority. Capital All capital transactions are subject to approval by the Ministry of Finance. Gold There are no specific regulations on transactions in gold. Changes During 1991 Exports and Export Proceeds July 1. The cash subsidy for exports to countries other than India was reduced from 30 percent to four rates ranging from 5 percent to 20 percent, with the lowest rate applying to unprocessed primary products and the highest rate applying to processed products. 56 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bolivia is the Boliviano (Bs). The official selling rate is determined at an auction held daily by the Central Bank of Bolivia. On Decem- ber 31, 1991, the official selling rate was Bs 3.75 per US$1. The official exchange rate applies to all for- eign exchange operations in Bolivia. The auctions are conducted by the Committee for Exchange and Reserves (Comite de Cambio y Reservas) in the Cen- tral Bank. Before each auction, the Committee de- cides on the amount of foreign exchange to be auc- tioned and a floor price below which the Central Bank will not accept any bids. This floor price is the official exchange rate. The Central Bank is required to offer in all auctions unitary lots of $5,000 or multi- ples of this amount; the minimum allowable bid is $5,000. Successful bidders are charged the ex- change rate specified in their bid. In general, the spreads between the maximum and minimum bids have been less than 2 percent. Sales of foreign exchange by the Central Bank to the public are subject to a commission of Bs 0.01 per US$1 over its buying rate. Except for the requirement to surrender the net proceeds from the exportation of goods and services, all banks, exchange houses, com- panies, and individuals can buy and sell foreign ex- change freely. Successful bids channeled through the banking system are voided if the banking institution submitting the bid is not complying with the legal reserve requirement on deposits at the time of the auction. However, banks must maintain a balanced spot position in foreign exchange at all times and sell to the Central Bank any excess balance at the end of each day. All public sector institutions, including the public enterprises, must purchase foreign exchange for imports of goods and services through the Central Bank auction market. There is a parallel but tolerated exchange market, in which the exchange rate on December 31, 1991 was Bs 3.74 per US$1 buying and Bs 3.76 per US$1 selling. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Bolivia formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from June 5, 1967. Administration of Control The Central Bank is in charge of operating the auction market for foreign exchange. It is also the enforcing agency for export surrender requirements as well as for other exchange control regulations. The Ministry of Finance, together with the Central Bank, is in charge of approving public sector pur- chases of foreign exchange for debt-service pay- ments. Arrears are maintained with respect to ex- ternal payments. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Settlements are usually made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Payments between Bolivia and Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ec- uador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Vene- zuela must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Bolivia and the central bank of the country concerned, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Imports and Import Payments All goods may be freely imported, with the excep- tion of sugar, edible oil, and wheat flour, which are temporarily subject to licensing requirements, and those controlled for reasons of public health or na- tional security. Since January 11, 1990, capital goods have been subject to an import tariff of 5 percent.l The customs tariff rate on all other goods (except books and printed materials on which the rate of 2 percent applies) was lowered on March 28, 1990 to 16 per- cent from 17 percent. On August 20, 1990, it was fu r ther lowered to 10 percent. Licenses with a valid- ity period of 120 days are required for the importa- tion of edible oil. Importers are required to pay an inspection charge of 1.85 percent of the f .o .b. value of imports. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invis- ibles. Since Ju ly 26,1990, residents traveling by air to neighboring countries have been required to pay a travel tax of Bs 100; the travel tax on travel to other fore ign destinations is Bs 150. Public sector purchases of foreign exchange for debt service must be approved by the Ministry of Finance and i rThe t a r i ff ra te was raised to 10 percent on J anu a ry 10, 1992. 57 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 58 BOLIVIA the Central Bank. Ou tward remittances of p ro f it are governed by the provisions of Decision Nos. 24 and 80 of the Car tagena Ag reemen t. Exports and Export Proceeds All goods may be free ly exported. All proceeds f rom exports of the public and private sectors must be sold to the Central Bank at the off ic ial exchange ra te within three days of receipt, with the exception of reasonable amoun ts deducted for foreign exchange expenditures under taken to e f f e ct the export. Exports, other than hydrocar- bons, are sub ject to inspection fees at the follow- ing d i f fe ren t ia ted rates: nontraditional produc ts, 1.55 percent and traditional products, 1.60 per- cent. Prior to March 15, 1991, exporters of non- traditional produc ts received, at the time of the surrender of foreign exchange receipts, a cus toms du ty rebate certificate (certificado de reintegro aran- celario (CRA)) equ iva lent to 6 percent of the net value of exports as determined by the Central Bank. E f fec t ive March 15, 1991, the CRA was re- placed by a du ty drawback system, under which exporters may apply for re imbursement of actual du t ies paid by providing all per t inent documen ta- tion, or opt for a simplified procedure under which re imbursement is made at the ra te of 2 per- cent or 4 percent of export value, depend ing on the degree of processing of the produc ts exported. All exports of goods and services must be e f fec ted through documen tary letters of credit drawn on domestic banks. Proceeds from Invisibles Banks, exchange houses, hotels, and travel agen- cies may retain the proceeds from their foreign ex- change purchases from invisible transactions, in- cluding those from tourism. They are required, however, to report daily their purchases on account of these transactions. Capital Foreign exchange for ou tward capital t ran s fe rs by residents or nonresidents can be purchased only f rom the commercial banks or f rom the Cen- tral Bank. Inward capital t ran s fe rs may be made freely, but government receipts of t ran s fe rs and gran ts and all proceeds of borrowings f rom for- eign public sector agencies must be su r rende red to the Central Bank. All fore ign credits, including suppliers7 credits, to government agencies and autonomous entities and credits to the private sec- tor w i th off ic ial gua ran tees are sub ject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance and to control by the Central Bank. Under Supreme De- cree No. 19732 of August 11, 1983, f inanc ial in- stitutions in Bolivia may make loans in the fo rm of credits denominated in foreign currency for im- ports of capital goods and inpu ts for the external sector with resources f rom international f inanc ial institutions, fore ign government agencies, or ex- ternal lines of credit. Under Supreme Decree No. 21060 of August 29, 1985, banks are au tho- rized to conduct foreign trade operations, such as letters of credit, bonds and guaran tees, advances and acceptances, loans for required f inanc ing with their correspondents abroad, and other op- erations generally accepted in international bank- ing, in favor of the country's exporters and impor ters. Foreign investments in Bolivia, except those in- volving petroleum and mining, are governed by the provisions of the Investment Law. In Septem- ber 1990, the Investment Law of December 14, 1981 was replaced by another investment law, under which domestic and foreign investors are treated equally (Law No. 1182 on Investment). The law is administered by the National Investment Institute. Investments in petroleum and mining are governed by the Hydrocarbons Law and the Mining Law. Certain foreign investments are subject to Decision Nos. 24 and 103 of the Cartagena Agreement. Gold Under Supreme Decree No. 21060 of August 29, 1985, gold may be traded freely, subject to a tax of 1.5 percent. Changes During 1991 Imports and Import Payments July 9. The Andean Group Regional Tariff Prefer- ence (Preferencia Arancelaria Regional (PAR)) was con- cluded. The agreement provided for reductions in customs duties applicable to imports from develop- ing countries to the basic rates of 11, 10, and 4 per- cent, depending on the level of development of the member countries. Some 2,400 items covered by NALADI (Nomenclatura de la Asociacion Latino- americana de Integration) were excluded. Exports and Export Proceeds March 15. The customs duty rebate certificate for exporters of nontraditional products, equivalent to 6 percent of the net value of exports, was abolished and replaced by a customs duty reimbursement (Gravamen Aduanero Consolidado) at the rates of 4 percent and 2 percent. The system would apply to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA 59 all products that are subject to customs duties, with certain exceptions (Supreme Decree No. 22753, March 15, 1991). December 17. Export procedures were simplified with the establishment of SIVEX (Sistema de Yen- tanilla Unica de Exportation). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Botswana is the Botswana Pula, which is pegged to a basket of currencies consisting of a weight of approximately 60 percent for the South African rand, approximately 30 percent for the SDR, and 10 percent for the Zimbabwe dollar. On December 31, 1991, the closing middle rate for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, was P 2.0725 per US$1; on the same date, the rate for the SDR was P 2.9656 per SDR 1. Buying and selling rates for certain other dealing currencies1 are quoted on the basis of their rates against the U.S. dollar in international markets. For information only, middle rates are quoted for certain other cur- rencies.2 There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. External borrowings by parastatals are protected from exchange rate movements under a Foreign Exchange Risk Sharing Scheme. Effective Octo- ber 1, 1990, however, the scheme ceased to apply to new borrowings undertaken by parastatals after that date. Under the scheme, risks associated with exchange rate fluctuations up to 4 percent are fully borne by the borrower, while risks associated with fluctuations between 4 percent and 15 percent are borne by the borrower and the Government on a 50:50 and 25:75 ratio, respectively. Risk associated with exchange rate fluctuations in excess of 15 per- cent is fully borne by the Government. The scheme is symmetrical in that the borrower and the Govern- ment share any gains from an appreciation in the external value of the pula on the same basis. For- ward exchange cover is also offered by the commer- cial banks. The period for which forward cover may be given in respect of the foreign currency proceeds from the exportation of goods is up to six months, but not less than three months. Administration of Control Exchange control is applicable to transactions with all countries. The Minister of Finance and De- velopment Planning has delegated most of the ad- ministration of exchange controls to the Bank of Botswana (the central bank). The latter, in turn, has delegated considerable powers to banks appointed as authorized dealers. Prescription of Currency Payments to or from residents of foreign coun- tries must normally be made or received in a foreign currency or through a nonresident-held pula ac- count in Botswana. Botswana does not maintain any bilateral payments agreements. Imports and Import Payments Botswana is a member of the Southern African Customs Union (SACU) with Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland, and there are gener- ally no import restrictions on goods moving be- tween the five countries. Import permits are re- quired, however, for most goods imported directly into Botswana from outside the SACU. Certain im- ported goods, including firearms, ammunition, fresh meat, and some agricultural and horticultural products, require permits regardless of the country of supply. There are no restrictions on payments for authorized imports. Goods of domestic origin may move freely between Botswana and Zimbabwe by virtue of a customs agreement of 1956, provided they meet certain local value-added requirements and are not intended for re-export. Import ship- ments of less than P 2,500 are exempt from ex- change controls. Applications in respect of forward purchases of foreign currency to cover payment for imports when the contract covers a period exceeding six months must be referred to the Bank of Botswana. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licensing, mainly for revenue reasons. Proceeds from exports must be received in a foreign currency or from a nonresident pula account within six months from the date of exportation. Retention of export proceeds for up to one year to finance certain transactions may be per- mitted by the Bank of Botswana. A few items, such as precious and semiprecious stones, require per- mits before they can be exported. Deutsche mark, pounds sterling, South African rand, Swiss francs, and Zimbabwe dollars. 2Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, French francs, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kroner, European Currency Units, and SDKs. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transac- tions, although subject to control, are not restricted. 60 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA 61 Authority to approve a range of current payments within limits (that is, basic exchange allowances) is delegated to commercial banks; applications for amounts exceeding basic exchange allowances must be referred to the Bank of Botswana for prior ap- proval. When the bona fide nature of applications has been established and all other requirements have been met by the applicant, payments are ap- proved. The basic exchange allowance for tourist travel by permanent residents is the equivalent of P 12,000 a calendar year for an adult (P 6,000 for a child). The allowance for business travel by perma- nent residents is P 600 a day, up to a maximum of P 35,000 a calendar year. The amount of unused foreign currency for travel that a resident can retain for fu ture travel use is the equivalent of P 1,000 in currency or traveler's checks; any excess amount must be surrendered within two months of the date of return in the case of currency notes and coins, and six months in the case of traveler's checks. The basic foreign study allowance for permanent resi- dents for incidental expenses other than tuition is P 3,000 a month a person and P 5,000 a family, with a vacation travel allowance of P 2,000 a year. A tempo- rary resident employed on a contractual basis may remit abroad annually, without reference to the Bank of Botswana, P 25,000 or 65 percent of total eligible earnings, whichever is greater; the limit ap- plicable to a self-employed temporary resident is P 50,000. The period during which temporary resi- dents are allowed to remit their earnings abroad is a block of 36 months, or the period of employment, whichever is shorter. Separately, travelers residing in Botswana may take out domestic bank notes and foreign currency in amounts of P 500 and P 1,000, respectively, and may freely bring in any amount of domestic bank notes and coins. Visitors may take our any foreign currency that they brought in with them in addition to a maximum of P 500 in domestic currency. The Bank of Botswana may authorize the mainte- nance by residents of foreign currency accounts with banks abroad in cases where there is a proven commercial need for such a facility. The delegated limit up to which authorized dealers may approve transfers of dividends and profits to nonresidents without reference to the Bank of Botswana is P 75,000 a year for each company. Payments in ex- cess of this limit may be authorized by the Bank of Botswana, which grants approval for all bona fide applications for foreign exchange. Capital Pension and life assurance funds may invest up to one half of their funds abroad. Applications for in- vestment abroad of other funds are treated on their merits and in light of possible benefits to Botswana. Foreign inward investment in new or existing busi- nesses is generally encouraged. Nonresident- controlled companies (including branches of for- eign companies) are permitted to borrow locally to finance working capital requirements only, up to P 300,000. Applications for local finance in excess of P 300,000 by nonresident-controlled companies may be considered by the Bank of Botswana, pro- vided that the resulting debt-equity ratio will not exceed 4:1. Equity is defined as paid-up capital, reserves, and retained earnings. The 4:1 limit may be exceeded if there is evidence that the project will provide a specialist skill to Botswana or will create significant employment. Any external borrowing by a local business must have at least a three-month grace period. Departing temporary residents are entitled to a basic remittable terminal allowance of up to P 25,000. Permanent residents are eligible for an emigration allowance of up to P 150,000 in addition to house- hold and personal effects whose value does not exceed P 75,000. Applications for remittances in excess of these amounts are dealt with by the Bank of Botswana. Such remittances are normally autho- rized if the amount is not too large; if the amount is excessive, remittances may be permitted in install- ments over three years. Nonresident companies are allowed to invest do- mestically generated funds in pula as well as those from external sources in any securities issued by the Bank of Botswana. Changes During 1991 Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles December 1. The following changes were intro- duced: (1) authorized dealers were empowered to approve the temporary residential status of non- citizens who would be employed on a full-time basis by any organization established in Botswana, pro- vided that such persons have not engaged in business in Botswana (previously, this authority was limited to noncitizens to be employed by the Government or parastatal bodies); (2) the period during which tem- porary residents were allowed to remit their earnings abroad was extended from 1 calendar year to a block of 36 months, or the period of employment, which- ever is shorter; (3) the maximum amount of foreign exchange that authorized dealers are allowed to sell to temporary resident contractual workers without ref- erence to the Bank of Botswana was increased from P 25,000, or 50 percent of the total eligible earnings, to P 25,000, or 65 percent of total eligible earnings, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 62 BOTSWANA whichever is greater, during one remittance period; (4) the amount of foreign exchange that authorized dealers are permitted to sell to self-employed tempo- rary residents as part of their annual remittable al- lowance out of eligible income without reference to the Bank of Botswana was increased from a maximum of P 25,000 to P 50,000 a year; and (5) authorized dealers were empowered to approve, without refer- ence to the Bank of Botswana, applications for remit- tance of unutilized balances of remittable allowance of self-employed temporary residents or temporary resi- dent contractual workers provided that applications are submitted within the first two months following the remittance period. Capital December 1. Nonresident-controlled companies in Botswana were allowed to invest their funds in pula that were generated in the country as well as those from external sources in any securities issued by the Bank of Botswana. Changes During 1992 Payments for Invisibles January 3. The limit of P 75,000 that authorized dealers are allowed to provide for remittances of dividends was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Brazil is the Cruzeiro (Cr$). Since March 16, 1990, Brazil has followed a flexible ex- change rate policy under which the cruzeiro floats independently with respect to the U.S. dollar in an interbank exchange market. Transactions in the exchange market are carried out by the Central Bank of Brazil and by banks, dealers, brokers, and tourist agencies authorized to deal in foreign exchange; the tourist agencies deal only in bank notes and traveler's checks in a "man- ual market." On December 31,1991, the buying and selling rates quoted by the Central Bank to the pub- lic for approved exchange transactions in the inter- bank exchange market were Cr$l,068.70 and Cr$l,068.80, respectively, per US$1. The same ex- change rates apply to "agreement dollars" used for settlements with bilateral agreement countries. Rates for other currencies are based on the U.S. dol- lar rates in Brazil and the rates for the respective currencies in New York and Europe. Foreign ex- change transactions for amounts exceeding US$100,000 are subject to brokerage fees. These fees, which are freely negotiated between parties, are calculated on a sliding scale and result in effec- tive rates of up to 3/16 of 1 percent on either side of the rates. A different effective rate arises, on the selling side, from the application of a financial transactions tax (imposto sobre operagoes de credito, cambio e seguro, e sobre operagoes relativas a titulos e valores mobiliarios (IOF)) of 25 percent to purchases of foreign ex- change for imports of selected services. Different effective rates arise, on the buying side, from the operation of the manual market in which the ex- change rate for receipts from tourism is freely deter- mined by participants in the market. Global limits are fixed for the authorized banks' sold positions in foreign exchange up to US$5 mil- lion; there is no limit on bought positions. Banks that are authorized to operate exclusively in the manual market and tourist agencies are permitted to maintain a bought position but may not maintain a sold position. Authorized banks are required to deposit foreign exchange at the Central Bank over- night in amounts that are needed to eliminate an overbought position exceeding $2 million. The banks are permitted to sell foreign exchange to each other without restriction; such transactions may be carried out either on a spot basis by cable or on a forward basis, and must be executed within 2 work- ing days for spot transactions or not later than 180 days for forward transactions. The commercial banks are permitted to provide forward exchange facilities to exporters, usually for a period of up to 180 days. The banks provide daily forward quota- tions for foreign currencies, with forward premiums reflecting corresponding interest differentials be- tween the countries concerned. Commercial banks are not subject to daily limits on bought positions in foreign exchange. Administration of Control The National Monetary Council (CMN) is respon- sible for formulating overall foreign exchange pol- icy. In accordance with the guidelines established by the Council, exchange controls, regulations af- fecting foreign capital, and the management of in- ternational reserves are under the jurisdiction of the Central Bank. The Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Planning enforces limits on foreign borrowing by the public sector. The Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Planning formulates foreign trade policy, and its Department of Foreign Trade (DECEX) implements this policy. The DECEX issues export and import certificates (guias de exportagdo or declaragoes de exportagdo and guias de importagdo). The Customs Policy Commission (CPA), estab- lished within the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Planning, is responsible for formulating guide- lines for tariff policy. The CPA also decides on changes in customs duties under the provisions of existing legislation. The Ministry of Economy, Fi- nance, and Planning coordinates public sector im- port policy. Prescription of Currency In principle, prescription of currency is related to the coun try of origin of imports or the coun try of f inal destination of exports, unless otherwise prescribed or authorized. Settlements with bilat- eral payments agreement countries1 are made in 1A bilateral payments agreement is maintained with Bulgaria. Negotiations were concluded with the former German Demo- cratic Republic to terminate a bilateral payments agreement on December 31, 1993. Bilateral accounts are also maintained with Hungary and Romania, but settlements are made in third- country currencies every 90 days, and interest rates payable on balances are based on those in the international capital market. 63 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 64 BRAZIL clearing dollars th rough the relevant agreement account. Payments between Brazil and Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Re- public, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, U ru- guay, and Venezuela must be made through ac- counts maintained with each other by the Central Bank and the other central banks concerned, within the f ramewo rk of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Associa- tion (LAIA). Settlements with countries with which Brazil has no payments agreements or spe- cial payments a r rangemen ts are made in U.S. dol- lars or other free ly usable currencies. Foreign Exchange Accounts Since October 30, 1986, exporters, importers, na- tional companies with foreign capital participation, and official institutions in the field of education and technological research have been authorized to open foreign exchange accounts in U.S. dollars at the Central Bank. On June 29, 1988, foreign ex- change accounts held by exporters and importers began to be gradually abolished, and were abol- ished in February 1989; however, effective Novem- ber 16,1989, they have been allowed to operate such accounts again, although funds on these accounts must be transferred to the Central Bank. The Cen- tral Bank is permitted to receive foreign currency deposits from abroad, provided that the holders of such deposits are national or foreign financial in- stitutions. Companies whose foreign capital par- ticipation is registered at the Central Bank continue to be authorized to open foreign exchange accounts. These accounts can be credited with funds from new foreign direct investments and reinvestments, reserve profits, consolidated surplus, profit remit- tances, and returns and gains from capital remit- tances. Deposits are remunerated at LIBOR, and withdrawals require 90 days' prior notice, or 30 days in cases of deposits from profits or dividends and sales of investments and participating capital stocks. Imports and Import Payments All importers must be registered with DECEX, and goods can be imported only by registered firms or persons. Imports may be grouped into the follow- ing three broad categories: (1) imports that are free of requirements to secure prior administrative doc- umentation, including samples without commer- cial value and certain educational materials; (2) imports that require an import certificate, which is issued by DECEX; and (3) imports that are pro- hibited (luxury boats with an original sale price of US$3,500 or more, agrochemical products not au- thorized under Brazilian regulations, certain drugs that are not licensed for security, health, or moral reasons, as well as for reasons of industrial policy). There is also a limit on the direct importation of consumer goods (and on the purchase on the do- mestic market of any imported consumer goods) by the public sector (the Government, autonomous agencies, and public enterprises).2 Most imports require the prior approval of DE- CEX, which is given automatically to registered im- porters of nonprohibited items.3 DECEX is autho- rized to levy a processing fee of up to 0.9 percent on the value of import certificates; as a rule, certificates are valid for 60 days, 90 days, or 180 days, depend- ing on the product. For special bonded warehouse importers, DECEX issues clearance certificates for certain groups of commodities. For a number of specified imports, the import certificate may be ob- tained after the commodity has been landed but before customs clearance. Certain p roduc ts require the approval of the Special Secretariat for Informa t ion. For some com- modities, eligibility for exemption f rom import duties may be precluded by the existence of satis- fac to ry domestic equivalents (similares naciohais). Goods imported into the Manaus and Tabatinga free zones are subject to an annual quota. Foreign goods imported into the Manaus free trade zone up to the equivalent of $600 can be transferred to other parts of Brazil (as a passenger's baggage) free of import taxes. As a general rule, imports may be cleared through customs before an exchange contract is closed. DECEX may approve applications for the payment of imports of any goods at terms of up to 720 days from the date of shipment without authori- zation from the Central Bank. External financing at terms in excess of 720 days for imports must be authorized by the Central Bank, which will evaluate them in the light of foreign debt policy. Payment of the amount financed, and the interest thereon, may be made only upon presentation of a certificate of authorization and of the related scheme of pay- ments issued by the Department of Foreign Capital (FIRCE) of the Central Bank. 2Under instructions issued by the Economic Development Council, federal ministries and subordinate agencies and public enterprises are required to submit, for approval by the President, an annual investment program incorporating their expected im- port requirements. 3Selected imports are exempted from the requirement of prior approval by DECEX, including imports to the free trade zone of Manaus, wheat and petroleum imports, imports under the draw- back scheme, and imports of goods included in trade agreements negotiated with LAI A member countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 65 Spot exchange contracts can be closed if the con- tract is intended to settle drafts, at sight or on matu- rity, and once the appropriate shipping documents are presented. Spot exchange contracts must be set- tled on maturity of the draft; settlement may take place two working days before the maturity date. Exchange contracts for imports financed under let- ters of credit must be closed on the date of settle- ment or two working days before the maturity date of the letters of credit. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles related to income from foreign capital, royalties, and technical assis- tance are governed by the provisions of the Foreign Investment Law. In addition to certain restrictions on remittances stipulated in that law, limits are placed on remittances of all royalties and technical assistance fees (see below). Brazilian residents tem- porarily staying abroad may purchase foreign ex- change up to the equivalent of $1,000 a month in the foreign exchange market. The limit for educational expenses is $4,000, and that for health care expenses is $100,000 plus $150 a day for incidental expenses for the patient and attendants, up to a total number of three. Payments for other current invisibles re- quire approval from the Central Bank's Exchange Department (DECAM) or FIRCE, which authorize remittances freely, subject to the presentation of supporting documents as evidence that a bona fide current transaction is involved. Personal expenses connected with travel abroad may be obtained up to $4,000 a person, irrespective of age or destination, in the foreign exchange mar- ket, of which $100 is available in cash and the re- mainder in traveler's checks. In addition, the use of credit cards up to the limit of $8,000 a month is permitted. A special daily allowance, ranging from $250 to $400, is available for business travel and representation expenses abroad. Applications for purchases of foreign exchange for travel in excess of these limits must be submitted to the Central Bank, which considers each case on its merits. Brazilian officials traveling abroad in the interest of the Gov- ernment are granted allowances at a rate deter- mined by the Central Bank. Remittances abroad of income from foreign direct investments and reinvestments and remittances in respect of royalties and technical assistance are gov- erned by Decree No. 55762 of February 17, 1965, which contains the regulations implementing the Foreign Investment Law. Remittances are allowed only when the foreign capital concerned, including reinvestments, and the contracts for patents and trademarks, and for technical, scientific, and ad- ministrative assistance are registered at FIRCE in accordance with the established rules (see section on Capital, below). The registration of contracts or deeds for technical assistance or the use of patents or trademarks is subject to approval by the National Institute of Industrial Property. Remittances are normally authorized in the currency of the country of domicile or of the head office of the beneficiaries. Remittances of interest on loans and credits and of related amortization payments are permitted freely in accordance with the terms stipulated in the re- spective contract and recorded in the certificate of registration. Profit remittances are subject to with- holding tax on income at a rate of 25 percent or another rate determined under agreements be- tween Brazil and other countries for the purpose of avoiding double taxation. A supplementary income tax applies when profits paid to a foreign investor during a three-year period exceed an average of 12 percent of the foreign currency value of regis- tered capital, at the rates of 40 percent, 50 percent, and 60 percent if the average profit paid is in the ranges of 12-15 percent, 16-25 percent, and above 25 percent, respectively. Remittances of royalties by a branch or subsidiary established in Brazil to its head office abroad are not permitted when 50 percent or more of the local firm's voting capital is directly or indirectly held by the foreign principal firm or when the majority of the firm's capital in Brazil belongs to the recipients of the royalties abroad. Amounts due as royalties for patents or for the use of trademarks, as well as for technical, scientific, and administrative assis- tance, and the like, may be deducted from the in- come tax liability to determine the taxable income, up to the limit of 5 percent of gross receipts; amounts exceeding this limit are considered profits. The percentages are the same as those established in Brazil's tax laws for determining the maximum permissible deductions for such expenses. Purchasers of foreign exchange for a number of current invisibles are subject to the financial trans- actions tax (IOF) of 25 percent. Travelers may freely take out domestic and for- eign bank notes. Repurchases of foreign exchange by a foreign traveler are limited to US$100 a trip or to the U.S. dollar equivalent of the amount exchanged into domestic currency during the visit, whichever is smaller. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are free of licensing requirements but require an export certificate issued by DECEX to ensure compliance with exchange and trade regula- tions. Some exports are free of controls, but exports ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 66 BRAZIL of several commodities require the prior approval of DECEX, while exports of specified commodities are suspended. Exports requiring approval include those effected through bilateral accounts, exports without exchange cover, exports on consignment, re-exports, commodities for which minimum export prices are fixed by DECEX, and exports requiring prior authorization from government agencies. The foreign exchange proceeds from all exports may be sold in the foreign exchange market. Foreign exchange contracts covering transactions may be closed either before the shipment of goods or within 10 working days of shipment. Export proceeds must be surrendered to the Central Bank within 45 days of shipment. The exportation of hides of wild ani- mals in any form is suspended. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from current invisibles must be sold through the authorized banks at the prevail- ing market rate. Traveler's checks and foreign bank notes are sold in the manual market. Travelers may freely bring in domestic and foreign currency notes. Capital Capital inflows in the form of financial loans un- der National Monetary Council Resolution No. 63, as amended, or under the provision of the Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 4131) require prior ap- proval from the Central Bank. Prior approval from the Central Bank is required for borrowing by the private or public sector when the foreign funds orig- inate from official financial institutions abroad, when the transaction is to be guaranteed by the National Treasury or, on its behalf, by any official credit institution, and for other foreign borrowing by the public sector (that is, the Government, auton- omous agencies, and public enterprises). In addi- tion, prior approval from the Central Bank is re- quired for borrowing by the private sector when the foreign funds originate in financial institutions abroad. Otherwise, inward transfers are unre- stricted and free of control, although the subse- quent utilization of the proceeds for the acquisition of certain domestic assets may be subject to control. There is a separate regime for inward portfolio in- vestment. For the purposes of repatriation and the remittance of income, however, inward transfers of foreign capital and the reinvestment of profits on foreign capital must be registered with FIRCE. For- eign capital is defined for this purpose as (1) goods, machinery, and equipment to be used to produce goods or to render services that have entered the country without an initial corresponding expendi- ture of foreign exchange; and (2) financial and mon- etary resources brought into the country for invest- ment in economic pursuits, provided that, in either case, the owner is a person or firm resident or domiciled abroad or with headquarters abroad. Foreign capital other than capital invested in Bra- zilian securities is classified, for purposes of regis- tration, as direct investments or loans, whether im- ported in the form of money or of goods, and it includes reinvested profits from foreign capital. Di- rect investment is defined as that foreign capital that constitutes part of the corporate capital and participates directly in the risk inherent in an eco- nomic undertaking. Foreign capital that is not part of the corporate capital of any enterprise is consid- ered to be a loan. Any loan obtained to purchase capital goods abroad, whether contracted by the manufacturer himself or by a third party, is consid- ered to be financing (mostly suppliers' credit). Persons residing abroad may make portfolio in- vestments in Brazilian commercial and industrial securities indirectly by acquiring shares in a Bra- zilian "investment company" quoted on Brazilian stock exchanges. Such capital is subject to registra- tion with the Central Bank and must remain in the country for at least three months. The minimum participation in investment companies by foreign firms or individuals is $1,000. Portfolio investments are exempt from the capital gains tax. Portfolio in- vestments may also be made through the purchase of quotas of the "Investment Fund —Foreign Capi- tal." The minimum participation in this fund is $5,000, and the money must stay in the country for at least three months. Funds and other collective investment entities established abroad may main- tain, in Brazil, portfolios of bonds and other se- curities, once their constitution and administration have been approved by the Central Bank and the securities and exchange commission. On May 31, the Government liberalized the stock markets to foreign institutional investors by exempting profits from the income taxes but subjecting them to a 15 percent tax that would be collected at the time of remittance abroad. On June 6, the issuance of de- bentures that are convertible into stocks in domestic enterprises was authorized. On July 1, a facility for externally funded nonprofit organizations to under- take debt-for-nature swaps was introduced, with an initial limit on the total amount of $100 million. For financial imports and for investments made in the form of goods, the registration is in the currency of the country of domicile of the creditor or investor (or of its head office) or, in special circumstances, in the currency of the country of origin of the goods or of the credit. To register loans that are made in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 67 foreign currency, it is necessary to certify that the interest rate corresponds to that prevailing in the original market of the loan, that the amortization schedule is not disproportionately heavy in the early stages of repayment, and, in the case of import-financing loans, that the prices of the im- ported goods correspond to the prices of compar- able goods in the country of origin. Capital entering Brazil is registered in foreign currency. Reinvestments are defined as profits of companies established in Brazil and accruing to per- sons or companies resident abroad when they have been reinvested in the same companies that pro- duced them or in another sector of the Brazilian economy. The registration of reinvested profits is made simultaneously in Brazilian currency and in the currency of the country to which the profits could have been remitted. The conversion is calcu- lated at the average exchange rate prevailing be- tween the date on which the profits appeared on the balance sheet of a company and the date of their reinvestment. A progressive supplementary in- come tax is levied on distributions of profits and dividends to nonresidents in excess of 12 percent of registered capital and reinvestments over a three- year period; the tax is applied whether or not the profits are remitted abroad, but reinvested earnings are exempt. Special regulations govern borrowing abroad. Under National Monetary Council Resolution No. 63, as amended, private, commercial, invest- ment, and development banks, and the Banco Na- cional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social may be authorized to take up foreign currency credits abroad for domestic relending for purposes of fi- nancing working capital. Safeguards against exces- sive use of such credits include limitations on the foreign obligations that each bank may assume (re- lated to the terms of the credit and the size of the bank) and the provision that the ultimate borrower must agree to bear the exchange risk. Effective July 31, 1990, certain financial institutions are au- thorized to obtain resources from abroad through the issue of commercial papers. On March 1, Bra- zilian banks located abroad were allowed to issue medium- and long-term certificates of deposit. On June 1, exporters were allowed to issue medium- term debt instruments that are secured with fu tu re export receipts. All other financial loans in foreign currency are effec ted under the general provisions of the Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 4131). Loans under this law also require prior central bank authorization, but the Central Bank does not under- take to provide specific exchange cover for them. Loans under Resolution No. 63, as well as those under Law No. 4131, must have a minimum term of one year, but no maximum term is set. Foreign loans are subject to mandatory deposit at the Central Bank. In the case of private enterprises, the deposit applies to 75 percent of the loan proceeds converted into cruzeiros, and it is released as follows: one third af ter 60 days from the deposit date, one third af ter 90 days, and the balance af ter 120 days; for public enterprises, the deposit applies to 100 percent of the loan proceeds converted into cruzeiros and is re- leased as follows: 20 percent af ter 150 days from the deposit date, 40 percent after 180 days, and the balance af ter 210 days. In addition to these mandatory deposit regula- tions, the Central Bank authorizes voluntary de- posits at the Central Bank by financial and nonfi- nancial institutions of the outstanding balances of their foreign loans; these deposits may be released only on the maturity dates for payment of principal, interest, and commissions. For as long as the de- posit remains with the Central Bank, the Central Bank covers all costs on these loans, including the exchange cost. Under a program for the management of external debt, the National Monetary Council imposes quan- titative limits on the amount of financial loans for which authorization may be given by the Central Bank. Loans are authorized only if maturities con- form to minimum requirements established from time to time by the Central Bank, which permits the total of loans outstanding to rise only to the extent that the servicing commitments on Brazil's total ex- ternal indebtedness do not depart from the guide- lines set by the National Monetary Council. As of the end of 1989, the Central Bank's minimum ac- ceptable maturity was set at seven years. However, provided that the full amount of the foreign ex- change remains committed to Brazil for the mini- mum specified maturity, loans to the final borrower in Brazil, as well as loans to banks under Resolution No. 63, may be made on terms shorter than the final maturity of the debt abroad, and these funds may subsequently be re-lent to the same or to a second borrower. Under the provisions of debt-resche- duling agreements, a similar mechanism applies to the foreign exchange equivalent of affected princi- pal rescheduled with foreign commercial banks in 1989, subject to yearly quantitative limits. Transfers of proceeds from sales of property and inheritance are permitted up to the limit of $300,000 or its equivalent in other currencies, provided that they are made through authorized dealers with sup- porting documentation. Outward capital transfers not mentioned above require authorization from DECAM and FIRCE, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 68 BRAZIL which consider applications on their merits. Ap- proved exchange transactions involving outward transfers of private capital are effected through au- thorized banks at the prevailing official market rate. On January 1, 1991, upon reconciliation of debt statistics, the Central Bank allowed the private sec- tor and the nonfinancial public sector access to for- eign exchange for the purpose of servicing their debts, including those owed to nonresident banks. With effect on the same date, the Central Bank began making payment equivalent to 30 percent of contractual interest obligations on external public debt covered in the negotiations with bank credi- tors. On April 1, Brazil reached preliminary agree- ment with its nonresident credit banks for the elim- ination of arrears outstanding at the end of 1990. The agreement provided for payments of $2 billion in 1991 and conversion of the remaining amounts to bearer bonds once an agreement is reached on me- dium- and long-term debt. On April 5, debt-service payments of certain public enterprises falling due on April 1, 1991 were allowed. Gold Firms authorized by the Government may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in Brazil. The first domestic negotiation of newly mined gold is subject to a mining tax of 1 percent, plus FINSOCIAL fees (an income tax surcharge and a sales tax) (0.6 percent) and PIS/PASEP (Programa de Integragao Assistencia Social de Empregados Publicos) contributions (a levy on the wage bill payable by employers) (0.75 per- cent), due on each transaction unless the operation takes place in the financial market when the FINSO- CIAL fees are due on the profits of the firm. The Central Bank is empowered to buy and sell gold on the domestic and international markets (CMN Reso- lution 1182 of April 4, 1986). Purchases of gold are made at current domestic and international prices; the international price is considered a target price. Imports of gold are subject to the issuance of an import certificate by DECEX and authorization from the Central Bank. Exports of gold are subject to the same procedures as those that are applied through DECEX in respect of other products, but the Central Bank is always the alternative buyer. Changes During 1991 Imports and Import Payments January 1. Two hundred f i f ty products used for data processing equipment that were on the re- stricted imports were liberalized. February 16. The first stage of the Government's multiyear tariff reform went into effect, reducing the average tariff rate on non-oil products to 25 per- cent from 32 percent. February 22. Official institutions in the field of education and technological research as well as the Ministry of Health were authorized to buy foreign exchange up to 360 days before the due date of payments abroad (Circular 1900 of February 22, 1991). February 27. The m in imum f inanc ing require- ment for all imports was abolished, and imports with financing terms f rom 361 to 720 days were exempted f rom prior authorization f rom the Cen- tral Bank. Payments for Invisibles January 1. Upon reconciliation of debt statistics, the Central Bank allowed the private sector and the nonfinancial public sector access to foreign ex- change for the purpose of servicing their debts, including those owed to nonresident banks. January 1. The Central Bank began making pay- ment equivalent to 30 percent of contractual interest obligations on external public debt covered in the negotiations with bank creditors. April 18. The remittance abroad of profits/ dividends on investments that are still in the pro- cess of registration in the Central Bank was allowed (Carta-Circular 2161 of April 18, 1991). Exports and Export Proceeds March 1. The tax on exports of three-phase en- gines to Canada, which was imposed to avoid coun- tervailing duties, was eliminated. June 1. An export financing program (PROEX) to be financed from repayment of credits under the Government's previous export financing program was established. It would be operated by the Bank of Brazil and would cover exports of capital goods and manufactured consumer goods, and interest on financing would vary according to the level of de- velopment of the country to which exports are destined. Capital January 24. The criteria for absorption or rebate of accumulated losses of foreign capital enterprises were defined (Circulares 1884 and 1885 of Jan- uary 14, 1991). February 8. The criteria for the conversion of debt into equity for private sector debt with ma tu- rities beginning 1991 were announced (Cartas- Circulares 2143 of August 2, 1991 and 2170 of May 20, 1991). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 69 March 2. The conversion of external debt instru- ments of the fede ral public sector, bonds, and deposits denominated in foreign currency for use in the National Privatization Program was authorized. March 27. The minimum term for exemptions of income tax on external loans was reduced to five years from ten years (Resolugao 1803 of March 27, 1991). April 1. A preliminary agreement was reached with nonresident creditor banks for the elimination of arrears outstanding at the end of 1990. The agree- ment provided for payments of US$2 billion in 1991 and conversion of remaining amounts to bearer bonds when an agreement is reached on medium- and long-term debt. April 5. Debt-service payments on certain public enterprises falling due from April 1, 1991 were allowed. May 31. The Government liberalized the stock markets to foreign institutional investors, by ex- empting profits from the income taxes. These in- vestments would be exempt from the capital gains tax, but they would be subject to a 15 percent tax from the income that would be collected at the time of remittance abroad. June 1. Exporters were allowed to issue medium- term debt instruments that are secured with fu tu re export receipts. June 6. The issuance of debentures that are con- vertible into stocks in domestic enterprises was authorized. July 16. A facility for externally funded nonprofit organizations to undertake debt-for-nature swaps was introduced, with an initial limit on the total amount of $100 million. July 23. The remittance abroad of late interest was exempted from specific authorization (Cartas- Circulares 2188 of July 23, 1991 and 2205 of Au- gust 23, 1991). July 31. Rules for borrowing external resources through the ADR/IDR mechanism were adopted (Resolugao 1848 of January 31, 1991). September 25. Borrowing abroad for the financing of agricultural development was permitted. December 30. The supplementary income tax re- lated to remittances of profits abroad was abolished, effective January 1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement1 The currency of Bulgaria is the Lev. The Bul- garian National Bank quotes daily the exchange rate of the lev in terms of the U.S. dollar based on de- velopments in the domestic interbank exchange market. This rate is called the central exchange rate. Exchange rates for other currencies are determined by their cross rate relationships with the U.S. dollar in the international exchange market. On Decem- ber 30, 1991, the exchange rate quoted by the Bul- garian National Bank in terms of the U.S. dollar was leva 21.811 per US$1. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Minis- try of Finance and the Bulgarian National Bank. The Bulgarian National Bank is responsible for imple- menting the exchange rate policy. Eleven commer- cial banks and one financial institution conduct for- eign exchange (forex) transactions. At the end of 1991, a total of 78 commercial banks were in opera- tion, 14 of them with banking licenses for domestic and cross-border operations, 58 of them with li- censes for domestic operations (including buying and selling of foreign exchange) only, and 6 banks with licenses for domestic banking operations only. The 14 banks with full licenses for domestic and cross-border operations are authorized to perform the following foreign exchange activities. Arrears are maintained with respect to certain external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Bul- garia maintains bilateral agreements are made in 1 Until the end of 1990, most of Bulgaria's trade and financial settlements with member countries of the CMEA were effected in transferable rubles (TR) through the International Bank for Economic Cooperation. The official exchange rate for the trans- ferable ruble was set at leva 1.30 per TR 1, and the commercial rate, at leva 1.05 per TR 1. Exchange rates for noncommercial transactions were also established with CMEA member coun- tries on the basis of parity between the lev and the transferable ruble. As of January 1,1991, this system of settlement in transfer- able rubles was phased out, except for a limited number of transactions related to the clearing of claims and liabilities that were accumulated under the previous system. the currencies and in accordance with the pro- cedures set forth in those agreements.2 Transactions are generally settled through clearing accounts. Bal- ances in these accounts (annual and multiyear) are generally to be settled in goods during the six months af ter the termination of the agreement; thereafter, they are settled in convertible currencies. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents may maintain foreign currency deposit accounts, which may be credited without restric- tion, and from which transfers may be made freely for transactions that are permitted under the exist- ing exchange control regulations. Balances on these accounts earn interest at international market rates. Nonresidents may maintain accounts in foreign cur- rencies and leva without any specific requirement on authorization, limitation, or restrictions. The crediting and debiting of these accounts are not subject to any regulations, and transfers abroad from these accounts are free of restriction. Imports and Exports There are no import quotas, and most imports are subject only to declaration and registration at the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations for statisti- cal purposes.3 The import customs tariff system is based on the harmonized system of nomenclature. There are separate tariffs for imports from 42 low- income countries (total exemptions), for imports from other developing countries (preferential rates), for imports from developed countries that grant most-favored-nation (MFN) treatment to Bul- garia, and for imports from countries that do not grant MFN treatment to Bulgaria. Tariffs on indus- trial goods generally do not exceed 10 percent (the maximum is 13.8 percent); tar iffs on agricultural products range from zero to 90 percent. However, 2At the end of 1991, Bulgaria had bilateral payments agree- ments with Albania, Bangladesh, Brazil, Cambodia, China, Ethi- opia, Finland, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Islamic Republic of Iran, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Malta, Mozambique, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Peru, Ro- mania, Tanzania, and Tunisia. 3Licenses are required for transactions under barter and clear- ing arrangements, exports under government credits, for exports subject to quotas and voluntary export restraint agreements, for transactions in products made by monopolistic firms (for exam- ple, wine and tobacco), and for special products, such as pre- cious metals. Licenses are normally granted within seven work- ing days. 70 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA 71 the MFN clauses apply to most of these duties. In addition to customs tariffs, a temporary fee of 15 percent is applied to a range of products, mostly consumer goods. Tariffs are calculated on the trans- action values (actual invoice price paid) in foreign currency and converted to leva. Proceeds from exports must be repatriated within one month but do not have to be surrendered; they may be retained in foreign currencies or sold in the interbank exchange market. Under Government Decree No. 13 (February 8, 1991), as amended by Decree No. 73 (April 22, 1991), export taxes are levied on a variety of products. The range of rates is as follows: (1) 30 percent on the lev equivalent of the forex proceeds from exports of wheat, animal live- stock, meat and meat products, and cheese; and (2) 20 percent on the lev equivalent of proceeds from exports of 26 items, including gasoline, diesel fuel, synthetic textile fibers, ferrous and nonferrous met- als and their shaped products, steel tubes, zinc and lead ingots (spelter), electrolytic copper, soda ash, timber, all sorts of packing and wrapping material, soaps and detergents, textiles, garments and clothing, electric batteries, and medicines and phar- maceuticals. Taxes on the above-mentioned items are exempt when they are exported under barter operations approved by the Government or similar arrangements. Exports of 14 product groups were temporarily banned in 1991. These included crude oil; raw hides of cattle; pigs; small farm animals; fodder and grain; cotton; silk; rice; powdered milk; sugar; edible fats and oil; and ferrous and nonferrous metal scraps. However, the Government may lift the ban on a case-by-case basis. Exports of meat and meat prod- ucts to the European Community (EC) are subject to EC quotas. Special licenses are required for exports and im- ports of tobacco leaves and products; liquors, wines, and beer; essential oils; military hardware and related technologies; endangered flora and fauna; radioactive materials; crafts and antiques; intellectual property; jewelry; and rare and precious metals. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange allowances for business travel are granted without restriction. Allowances for tourist travel are limited to the equivalent of up to leva 10,000 a person a year for people without for- eign currency deposits. Resident holders of forex deposits receive unlimited tourist travel allowances. Proceeds f rom invisibles do not have to be surren- dered and may be retained in foreign currencies or sold in the interbank exchange market. Commercial banks may sell foreign exchange freely to resident individuals or resident legal persons if proper docu- mentation certifies that foreign exchange is needed for (1) transportation and other expenses related to the conveyance of goods and passengers carried out by nonresidents; (2) interest and amortization with respect to credits approved by the Bulgarian Na- tional Bank; (3) business travel in compliance with the established procedures; (4) insurance fees; (5) banking commissions; (6) education and train- ing; (7) health care; and (8) payments authorized by local judicial bodies. Remittances of earnings by foreign workers and remittances for family mainte- nance are not explicitly mentioned in Decree No. 15 (of February 8, 1991), which governs foreign ex- change control, but they have been treated im- plicitly as transfers abroad that are not related to merchandise imports. The latter group of transfers requires prior permission from the Bulgarian Na- tional Bank as stipulated by the decree; it includes (1) indirect investments; (2) official credits extended to and received from abroad; (3) investments abroad; and (4) free transfers in foreign currency when they are not connected with imports of goods and services. The exportation and importation of domestic bank notes are prohibited. Capital Licensed banks may borrow abroad without the authorization of the Bulgarian National Bank. The forex licensed commercial banks, however, may bor- row abroad only if they do not request a guarantee from the Government of Bulgaria and if their bor- rowing complies with the prudential regulations set up by the Bulgarian National Bank. They may also extend foreign currency and lev loans to residents and nonresidents. Foreign direct investments in Bulgaria are gov- erned by Decree No. 56 of 1989, as amended in 1990, 1991, and 1992. Nonresidents may own domestic enterprises partly or fully, or may enter into joint- venture arrangements, subject to authorization, when the foreign participation in the shares and stocks of the partnership exceeds 50 percent in lim- ited liability firms and 20 percent in joint-stock firms. A foreign person acting in a single merchant capacity or through a branch may not acquire prop- erty over land, and a partnership with foreign par- ticipation exceeding 50 percent may not own agri- cultural land. Foreign direct investments must be registered but require authorization only if they are undertaken in sectors that are considered sensitive. Foreign direct investments are guaranteed against ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 72 REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA expropriation, except for nationalization through le- gal process. Foreign firms are granted the same status as domestic firms; they may, under certain conditions, benefit from preferential treatment, in- cluding reduced taxation and access to judicial ap- peal outside the system of state arbitration. In gen- eral, fully owned foreign firms are subject to a profit tax of 40 percent, and joint ventures are subject to a profit tax of 30 percent; all other firms with foreign participation are subject to the same profit tax as domestic firms (40 percent). Repatriation of liqui- dated capital and after-tax profits is not restricted; however, transfers of profits in domestic currency require a special authorization. Gold The Ministry of Finance controls the acquisition, possession, manufacture, and disposal of gold, sil- ver, and platinum. The Bulgarian National Bank is the only institution entitled to purchase, sell, hold, import, or export gold for monetary and nonmone- tary purposes. All domestic transactions for indus- trial purposes must be conducted at current prices through the Bulgarian National Bank. Commercial banks are not authorized to deal or speculate (on their own or on their customers' behalf) in precious metals, with the exception that the Bulgarian For- eign Trade Bank is licensed to deal in silver. Resi- dent individuals may hold gold but may not trade or deal in it. The amount of gold and jewelry products they may import is limited. Nonresidents are per- mitted to bring in and take out their jewelry but may not trade. Nonresidents must have permission from the Ministry of Finance, the Bulgarian National Bank, and the Ministry of Industry and Commerce to buy gold, silver, and platinum products. Changes During 1991 Administration of Control March 28. Enterprises were allowed to purchase and sell foreign exchange, subject to the require- ment that transactions must be registered with a commercial bank (Regulation No. 2 of the Bulgarian National Bank). Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles December 23. Residents traveling abroad were al- lowed to purchase foreign exchange up to the equiv- alent of leva 10,000 a year (Decree No. 15 of 1991, as amended). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Burkina Faso is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the interven- tion currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.02. The official buying and selling rate is CFAF 50 per F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French f ranc and the CFA franc. Banks levy a com- mission of 2.5 per mill on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Union (WAMU), all of which must be surrendered to the Treasury.2 There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. In the official and commercial banking sectors, forward exchange cover may only be arranged by residents for settlements with respect to imports of goods on specified lists. All contracts for forward exchange cover must be denominated in the cur- rency of payments stipulated in the contract, and they are subject to the prior authorization of the Minister of Finance. Forward exchange contracts may be concluded for a period of one month and may not be renewed; for certain products, the matu- rity period of forward exchange cover may be re- newed once for a period of three months. With the exception of measures relating to gold and to the repatriation of export proceeds, Burkina Faso's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Oper- ations Account (Benin, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are consid- ered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate of the Treasury in the Ministry of Finance. The approval authority in respect of exchange control (except for imports and exports of gold, forward irFhe CFA f ranc is issued by the Central Bank of West A f r ican States (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2Transfers between member countries of the WAMU are sub- ject to a flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. exchange cover, opening of external accounts in for- eign currency, and business travel allocations in ex- cess of CFAF 400,000) has been delegated to the BCEAO and, within limits specified in the exchange control regulations, to authorized intermediaries. The BCEAO is also authorized to collect, either di- rectly or through banks, financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and judicial agents, any in- formation necessary to compile balance of pay- ments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through au- thorized banks, the Postal Administration, or the BCEAO. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade in the Min- istry of Industry, Commerce, and Mines. Import certificates for liberalized commodities and export attestations are made out by the importer or expor- ter himself and, when settlement takes place with a country outside the Operations Account Area, are visaed by the Customs Administration. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since Burkina Faso is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any Operations Account country. Current transactions with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally settled through the West African Clearing House. Certain settlements with China, Germany, and Ghana3 are channeled through special accounts. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected either through correspondent banks in France or the coun- try concerned in any of the currencies of those coun- tries, or in French francs (or in other currencies of the Operations Account Area) through foreign ac- counts in francs. All settlements with South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts BCEAO bank notes may be credited to foreign accounts in francs when they have been mailed to 3A bilateral agreement was negotiated with Ghana in 1970 but is inoperative. 73 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 74 BURKINA FASO the BCEAO agency in Ouagadougou by an autho- rized bank's foreign correspondent. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury is pro- hibited. Foreign accounts in francs may be debited, without prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO bank notes mailed directly by authorized intermediaries to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods originating in or shipped from any country for commercial purposes and under any customs regulations may be made freely; prior acquisition of an official import document is neces- sary for imports exceeding values of CFAF 250,000. A special import authorization (autorisation speciale d'importation (ASI)) is required for the following products: sugar, paddy and milled rice, wheat and cereal flour, cement, edible oils, soap, concrete- reinforcing bars, sheet metal, batteries, tires and inner tubes for motorcycles and mopeds originating from outside the West African Economic Com- munity (WAEC), tire-vulcanization products, foam rubber for mattresses, tiles, furniture, bicycle spare parts, polythene bags, cloth, mats and bags made of polypropylene, printed fabric, bleached and tinted threads, tomato puree, frozen sea fish, PVC tubes, audio and video tapes, oil-carrying tank trucks, used buses, used shoes, small fishing nets, plastic shoes, training shoes originating from outside the WAEC, "DAN FANI" fabrics, and automated teller machines. A prior import authorization (autorisation prealable dfimportation (API)) or an exceptional import autho- rization (autorisation exceptionnelle d'importation (AEI)) is required for the following products: to- bacco; organic chemical products; cardboard and cardboard products; machines, appliances, and electrical devices; electrotechnical objects; cars; and tractors. A technical import visa is required for the following products: plants, plant extracts, seeds and fruits used in perfumery or medicine or used as insecticides or for any similar purpose, plant ex- tracts and juices, alcoholic beverages, tobacco, in- organic chemical products, organic or inorganic precious metal compounds, organic chemical com- pounds, pharmaceutical products, fertilizers, ex- plosives and similar flammable materials, various chemical products, military uniforms and any men's khaki or olive green clothes, military and police helmets, kepis and bonnets, audio and video tapes, and arms and ammunition. Imports of cer- tain other products, a list of which is established by decree, may be exempted f rom the import docu- ment requirement. The Minister of Industry, Com- merce, and Mines may, on the basis of criteria estab- lished by his Ministry, waive the prescribed formalities for imports from countries with which Burkina Faso has concluded a customs union or free trade area agreement. Most imports are subject to a customs stamp tax of 6 percent, an import sur- charge of 6 percent, and a statistical tax of 4 percent. Imports of the following products are prohibited: oil-carrying tank trucks, used coaches and buses, moped inner tubes from non-WAEC countries, bi- cycle tires and inner tubes from non-WAEC coun- tries, wheat flour from non-WAEC countries, fish- ing nets with a mesh not greater than 3 square meters, and ivory. All import transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000. Import li- censes or prior import authorizations entitle im- porters to purchase the necessary exchange not ear- lier than eight days before shipment if a documen- tary credit is opened, on the due date for payment if the commodities have already been imported, or at the time of the payment on account if such a pay- ment has to be made before importation. Payments for Invisibles All payments to South Africa are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to exchange control approval, which, for many invisibles, has been delegated to authorized intermediaries. Authorized intermediary banks and the Postal Administration are empowered to make payments up to CFAF 50,000 a transfer to foreign countries on behalf of residents without requiring justification. Payments for invisibles re- lated to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted. Residents traveling for tourism to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries may purchase ex- change equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip (CFAF 87,500 for children under 10 years) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining af ter their return to Burkina Faso must be surrendered. The basic alloca- tion for travel abroad for business purposes is the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. Larger allocations are granted, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO 75 however, for bona fide reasons. Residents traveling to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes or the equiv- alent in French bank notes or bank notes of other Operations Account countries. Residents traveling to other countries of the Operations Account Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes, but if proceeding to a country that is not a member of the WAMU, they must declare to customs the amount they take out if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may freely take out foreign bank notes up to the equivalent of CFAF 175,000, or any larger amount, if declared upon entry or ac- quired by drawing on a foreign account in francs, or an account in foreign currency, or by exchange of foreign traveler's checks. They may take out any foreign means of payment other than bank notes acquired in Burkina Faso by debit to a foreign ac- count in francs or an account in foreign currency, subject to submission of documentation. They may also take out freely up to CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes or the equivalent in French bank notes or bank notes of other Operations Account countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports from Burkina Faso may be made freely. However, for the purpose of monitor- ing, exports or re-exports of certain products may require prior official authorization from the compe- tent services of the Ministry of Industry, Com- merce, and Mines, except in the case of certain goods, a list of which is established by decree. In accordance with criteria defined by the Minister of Industry, Commerce, and Mines, exports of certain products may be subject to special regulations. Ex- ports requiring prior authorization are grains and grain flours, natural phosphates, and fertilizers. A special export authorization (autorisation speciale d'exportation (ASE)) is required for shelled beans and ground nuts. Exports of maize, millet, sorghum, rice, and ivory are prohibited. Exports to Ghana are subject to special regulations. Export proceeds must be surrendered within one month of the date on which the payment falls due (the due date stipulated in the commercial contract, which must not, in principle, be later than 180 days after arrival of the goods at their destination). All export transactions relating to foreign countries, including countries in the Operations Account Area, must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000, and the exporter must sign a foreign exchange commitment and submit an export attestation form. Most exports are subject to a customs stamp tax of 6 percent and a statistical duty of 3 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date. Such proceeds and earnings may not be received in or from South Africa. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account Area. Resident travelers must declare to customs any foreign means of payment in excess of CFAF 5,000 that they bring in and must surrender these to an authorized bank within eight days a f ter return. Capital All capital movements between Burkina Faso and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements be- tween Burkina Faso and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable) are main- tained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Burkina Faso. Such operations require prior authorization from the Minister of Fi- nance. Exempt from authorization, however, are op- erations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Burkinabe Government, and (2) shares that are similar to or may be substituted for securities whose issue, advertising, or sale in Burkina Faso has already been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the WAMU, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 76 BURKINA FASO Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All the special provisions described in this paragraph apply only to transactions and not to the associated payments or collections. All investments abroad by residents of Burkina Faso require prior authorization from the Minister of Finance4 and, unless specifically exempted by the Minister of Finance, 75 percent of such investments must be financed from borrowing abroad. Foreign direct investments in Burkina Faso5 must be de- clared to the Minister of Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request postponement of the project. The full or partial liquidation of either type of investment also requires prior declaration to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Burkinabe investments abroad or foreign investments in Burkina Faso, must be re- ported to the Minister of Finance. Direct invest- ments constitute investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. For- eign firms operating in Burkina Faso in vital or priority sectors are required to have Burkinabe par- ticipation in their capital of at least 51 percent and of at least 35 percent in all other sectors. The sale to residents of Burkina Faso of securities of foreign companies operating in Burkina Faso requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance, who establishes the sale value. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents re- quires prior authorization from the Minister of Fi- nance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct in- vestment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance operations abroad, by any type of firm to finance imports into or exports f rom Burkina Faso, or by international trading houses previously approved by the Minister of Finance to finance in- ternational merchanting transactions; (3) loans con- tracted by authorized banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 100 million including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons residing in Burkina Faso and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies having their headquarters in Burkina Faso. Including those made by companies operating in Burkina Faso that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Burkina Faso of for- eign companies. for any one borrower, provided that the annual in- terest rate does not exceed the normal market rate and that the proceeds are immediately surrendered by the sale of foreign currency on the exchange market or debited to a foreign account in Francs. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the Minister if the loan itself was subject to such ap- proval but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization by the BCEAO, acting on behalf of the Minister of Finance. The Investment Code provides preferential treat- ment for foreign investment in Burkina Faso, except for enterprises whose capital stock belongs entirely to foreigners. Three preferential categories (A, B, and C) are established, in accordance with which special guarantees and tax and customs incentives may be granted for up to eight years to any enter- prise that undertakes to create or considerably ex- pand activities likely to contribute to the country's economic and social development. Enterprises that the Government deems to be of a priority nature may also be given privileged treatment. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Burkina Faso. Imports and ex- ports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-lined or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. The Comptoir burkinabe des metaux precieux (CBMP) has a monopoly on exports of gold from Burkina Faso. Changes During 1991 Imports and Import Payments January 1. The following items were added to the list of products that are subject to prior import au- thorization (API): tobacco; organic chemical prod- ucts; cardboard and cardboard products; machines, appliances, and electrical devices; electrotechnical objects; cars; and tractors. July 17. The following items were added to the list of produc ts that are subject to special import authorization (ASI): sugar, wheat, rice, edible oils, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURK INA FASO 77 sheet metal, tiles, cement, fu rn i tu re, cloth seeds, bags made of polypropylene, bicycle and motor bicycles and their spare parts, printed fabr ic, bleached and tinted threads, certain types of slats, toma to puree, inner tubes for mopeds, f rozen fish, foam rubber for mattresses, PVC tubes, au- dio and video tapes, toilet soap, and certain bat- j. j -j . j - i j. j , _• i ^ teries, and the following produc ts were pro- hibited: trucks, moped inner tubes f rom non- WAEC countries, bicycle tires and inner tubes f rom non-WAEC countries, wheat flour f r om non- WAEC countries, fishing nets with a mesh not greater than 3 square meters, and ivory, r ^ , , „ L „ , Exports a na Export Proceeds July 17. Exports of maize, millet, sorghum, rice, and ivory were prohibited. r ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Burundi is the Burundi Franc, which is pegged to the SDR. In August 1986, Bu- rundi introduced a flexible exchange rate system under which the exchange rate was to be adjusted periodically to reflect underlying economic condi- tions. On December 31,1991, the exchange rate was FBu 273.07 per SDR 1, and the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were FBu 190.14 and FBu 192.05, respectively, per US$1. Exchange rates for 19 currencies1 and for 2 units of accounts (Euro- pean Currency Units (ECUs) and Units of Account of the Preferential Trade Area (UAPTAs)) are quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi (the central bank) on the basis of the Burundi franc-SDR rate and the transaction value of these currencies and units in terms of the SDR. Authorized banks must carry out permitted exchange transactions at the buying and selling rates established by the central bank for currencies quoted by that bank. An ex- change fee of 3 per mill is collected on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions and foreign trade is vested in the central bank; authority to carry out some transactions is delegated to four authorized banks (BANCOBU, BCB, Burundi Bank for Commerce and Investment, and Meridien Bank). Prescription of Currency Settlements relating to trade with Rwanda and Zaire in products specified in the commercial agree- ments between these countries are effected through convertible currency accounts maintained with the central bank and authorized banks of each signatory country. With these exceptions, outgoing payments may be made and receipts may be obtained in any currency quoted by the central bank. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in convertible Burundi francs may be maintained by (1) natural persons of foreign nationality, such as diplomats, who are tem- porarily established in Burundi and are not consid- ered as residents, (2) juridical persons of foreign nationality with special status, such as foreign em- bassies and international organizations, and (3) any other natural or juridical persons authorized by the central bank. These accounts may be credited freely with the proceeds of foreign currencies quoted by the central bank, and they may be debited freely for withdrawals of Burundi francs for any normal cur- rent payments in Burundi and for conversion into foreign exchange. Up to FBu 20,000 may be with- drawn in bank notes upon presentation of travel documents (a passport and an Airline ticket). With- drawals in excess of this amount are subject to the prior authorization of the central bank. These ac- counts may bear interest freely and must not be overdrawn. Interest earned must be credited to an ordinary Burundi franc account. Certain nonresidents whose main activities are outside Burundi may maintain nonresident ac- counts in foreign currencies with an authorized bank. These accounts may be maintained by (1) natural and juridical persons of foreign na- tionality who are resident abroad, and (2) any other natural or juridical persons authorized by the cen- tral bank. These accounts may be credited freely with any foreign currency quoted by the central bank that is received from abroad. They may be debited freely for (1) conversion into Burundi francs of any payments in Burundi; and (2) payments abroad for travel and representation or for the pur- chase of foreign goods, except for bank notes. These accounts must not be overdrawn. However, they may bear interest with prior authorization from the central bank. The related bank charges and com- missions must be settled in foreign exchange; and (3) as in the case of accounts in convertible Burundi francs, up to FBu 20,000 may be withdrawn upon presentation of travel documents (a passport and an airline ticket). Withdrawals in excess of this amount are subject to the prior authorization of the central bank. Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Tanzania shillings, Uganda shillings, U.S. dollars, and zaires. Imports and Import Payments All imports require licenses, except (1) trade sam- ples without commercial value; (2) merchandise not 78 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI 79 intended for sale whose declared consumer value is FBu 50,000 or less c. & f. Bujumbura; (3) travelers' luggage and personal effects; (4) gifts and supplies for diplomatic missions and UN agencies; and (5) capital goods and spare parts intended for sale whose value does not exceed FBu 500,000 (c. & f. Bu jumbura). Authorized banks are allowed to approve applica- tions for licenses; the approval of license application also constitutes an authorization to obtain foreign exchange. An administrative fee amounting to 1 percent of the f .o.b. value of the goods is collected at the time of validation of the license. All goods imported into Burundi must be insured by ap- proved Burundi insurers, and premiums must be paid in Burundi francs. All consignments of imports exceeding FBu 1 million in value (f .o .b .) may be subject to preshipment inspection with regard to quality and price by an international supervising and oversight organization on behalf of the Burundi authorities. In principle, foreign exchange is made available either at the time of shipment of the goods on the basis of the shipping documents or following im- portation of goods. For goods under global licenses, foreign exchange is not made available until af ter customs clearance. All imports are subject to a ser- vice tax of 4 percent ad valorem, in addition to any applicable customs duties and fiscal duties. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require approval. Shipping insurance on coffee exports normally must be taken out in Burundi francs with a Burundi insurer. Transportation expenses on certain routes to Burundi or abroad must be paid in Burundi francs. Upon presentation of evidence of payment of taxes, foreign nationals residing and working in Burundi are permitted to transfer freely up to 60 percent of their net annual income; the propor- tion for those working in firms that export at least 50 percent of their production is 70 percent. The permitted annual transfer is 60 percent of income for experts working for the Government under indi- vidual employment contracts containing a transfer clause and receiving remuneration entirely in Bu- rundi francs. Private joint-stock companies may freely and immediately transfer 100 percent of the return on foreign capital and of the share allocated to foreign directors. Persons leaving Burundi permanently are autho- rized to transfer abroad their holdings of Burundi francs that consist of unremitted savings or the sale proceeds of their personal effec ts. Transfer of rental income from foreign owners of new commercial, industrial, office, and residential buildings is per- mitted up to 50 percent of net rental income (after payment of taxes and deduction of 20 percent for maintenance expenses); the remainder, plus any accrued interest, may be transferred later, provided that the funds have been held on deposit with a domestic financial institution for two years for com- mercial, industrial, and office buildings, and for three years for residential buildings. Transfer of up to 50 percent is permitted after at least three years of placement in investment or savings bonds. Residents may apply for exchange needed for foreign travel. The foreign exchange allowance for business travel purposes is $200 a person a day or its equivalent, subject to a maximum limit of 15 days a year; the daily foreign exchange allowance for travel in Africa is $125 a person. These limits may be increased for travel requiring a longer stay abroad. All travelers may take out up to FBu 5,000 in Bu- rundi bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports valued above FBu 10,000 require a prior declaration, which can be obtained through an authorized bank. Declarations are valid for six months, but extensions may be granted by the cen- tral bank. Payments must be collected within 90 days of the date of export declaration at customs. All exchange proceeds from exports must be surren- dered to an authorized bank within 8 days of their collection. Exports of mineral products, coffee, hides, and all exports by exporters not authorized by ministerial order are subject to export duties. Exporters of manufactured goods may receive a re- fund of duties paid, provided that they incorporate raw materials on which import duty has been paid. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered to authorized banks. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency quoted by the central bank and traveler's checks and up to FBu 5,000 in Burundi bank notes. Nonresidents staying in a hotel or guest house in Burundi must pay their hotel bills by selling foreign currencies quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi or by using a credit card. Payment in Bu- rundi francs is, however, acceptable in the case of guests for whom a resident company or individual has assumed responsibility with prior authorization from the central bank, and in the case of nationals of Zaire or Rwanda who produce declarations of means of payment issued under the auspices of the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries (CEPGL). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 80 Capital BURUNDI Gold Under the Investment Code introduced on Jan- uary 14, 1987, new investments that fulfill specified conditions as to amount and economic importance may be granted priority status to which specified privileges are attached, mainly in the form of ex- emptions from import duties and from taxes on income f rom the investment. Import duties and taxes may be reduced or suspended for goods and equipment needed for starting a particular project and, during a period of five years, for other mer- chandise needed for the manufacturing process or for the upkeep of the original investment. Taxes on profits and real estate may likewise be reduced or suspended for up to eight years. Enterprises ac- corded priority status may be granted a reduction or suspension of export taxes and import taxes on equipment and raw materials for renewable periods of five years. In addition to these privileges, com- panies under tak ing investments that are consid- ered to be of prime importance to Burundi's eco- nomic development may be granted, under a separate agreement, a guarantee that direct taxes on their activities will not be increased for ten years. An investment commission under the Planning Sec- retariat is responsible for examining requests for priority status and granting the necessary authori- zation. In addition, Burundi guarantees each for- eign investor the right to move into the country; foreign investors are also assured an allocation of foreign exchange for the purchase of raw materials abroad as well as for the repayment of loans taken out under the investment agreement. Capital transfers by residents and transfers of for- eign capital on which a repatriation guarantee has been granted require individual authorization. The guarantee is furnished for foreign exchange imported by resident enterprises to provide working capital in foreign exchange; it applies to any of the currencies quoted by the central bank, is valid for one year, and may be renewed. The guarantee provides for the transfer of the original amount surrendered at the official rate prevailing on the day of transfer. The repatriation of invested capital in the event of the sale or shutdown of the business is also guaranteed. All na tu ral and jur id ical persons holding gold mining permits issued by the Ministers responsi- ble for Mining and Customs may open purchasing houses for gold mined by artisans in Bu rund i. Gold produced by artisans may be sold only to approved houses. Exports of gold must be de- clared in Bu rundi f rancs at the average monthly rates communicated by the central bank. Gold exports are authorized jo in t ly by the Mining and Customs Depar tmen ts. Changes During 1991 Imports and Import Payments January 21. The value of import licenses that the commercial banks are authorized to approve was raised to FBu 50 million from FBu 25 million. December 30. The limit on the value of import licenses that the commercial banks are authorized to approve was removed. Payments for Invisibles August 1. The limit on the transfer abroad of sal- aries by foreign nationals was increased to 60 per- cent from 50 percent of total earning. One hundred percent of the return on foreign capital and the share of profits allocated to foreign directors was allowed to be freely transferred abroad. November 11. The commercial banks were au- thorized to open nonresident accounts in convert- ible Bu rundi f rancs and foreign exchange. (They must send a copy of the relevant documentation to the central bank on opening these accoun ts .) Exports and Export Proceeds April 23. The commercial banks were autho- rized to issue export licenses. June 30. Private t rade rs were perm i t ted to ex- port up to 30 percent of the cu r rent (1991/92) co f fee crop; previously, exportation of the coffee crop was a monopoly of the Bu rundi Co f f ee Company. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cameroon is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.02. Ex- change transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market. A commission of 0.50 percent is levied on transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except transfers in respect of central and local government operations, payments for imports cov- ered by a duly issued license domiciled with a bank, scheduled repayments on loans properly obtained abroad, travel allowances and official representation expenses paid by the Government and its agencies for official missions, and payments of reinsurance pre- miums. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, Cam- eroon's exchange control measures generally do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other coun- tries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all pay- ments to these countries may be made freely, but all financial transfers in excess of CFAF 500,000 to the Operations Account countries must be declared to the authorities for statistical purposes. Forward exchange cover requires the prior autho- rization of the exchange control authorities. It must be denominated in the currency of settlement pre- scribed in the contract, and the maturity period must not be less than three months or exceed nine months. Settlements must be effected within eight days of the maturity date of the forward contract. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate of Economic Controls and External Finance in ^he CFA franc circulating in Cameroon is issued by the Ban- que des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in the Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon. the Ministry of Finance. Exchange transactions re- lating to all countries must be effected through au- thorized intermediaries —that is, the Postal Admin- istration and authorized banks. Import licenses for goods other than gold are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, and those for gold by the Ministry of Mines, Water, and Energy. Export li- censes are issued by the Ministry of Finance. Ar- rears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since Cameroon is an Operations Account coun- try, settlements with France (as defined above), Mo- naco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settle- ments with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. All settlements between Cameroon and South Africa are prohibited. Resident and Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on those applied in France. BEAC bank notes may be credited to foreign accounts in francs when mailed to the National Directorate of the BEAC in Yaounde by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks. Transactions of accounts in CFA francs by nonresidents are permitted freely; accounts of nonresidents in foreign currency are not permitted to be credited or debited in CFA francs. Residents are not permitted to maintain accounts in foreign currency in Cameroon or abroad, and resi- dents and nonresidents are not permitted to main- tain accounts in CFA francs abroad. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa and imports of tobacco from Malawi are prohibited. Some imports from countries outside the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) are subject to quan- titative restrictions. Certain imports require techni- cal licenses proving that they are for use by profes- sionals. Certain other imports are prohibited for political, ecological, health, or safety reasons. Sur- charges apply to imports f rom non-UDEAC countries. 81 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 82 CAMEROON All import transactions valued at more than CFAF 50,000 must be domiciled with an authorized bank if the goods are not considered in transit. Transactions involving transit goods must be domiciled with a foreign bank. Advance import de- posits are permitted if underlying contracts stipu- late them. Payments for Invisibles Payments in excess of CFAF 500,000 for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Op- erations Account countries require prior declaration but are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permit- ted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Trans- fers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permit- ted freely, subject to declaration. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange alloca- tion of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a person a year; any foreign exchange remaining af ter return to Cameroon must be surrendered. For busi- ness travel, the corresponding allocation is the equivalent of CFAF 15,000 a day, subject to a max- imum of CFAF 450,000 a trip. In practice, additional allocations are granted. The t r an s f er of rent f rom real p rope r ty owned in Cameroon by fore ign nationals is limited, in prin- ciple, to up to 50 percent of the income declared for taxation purposes, net of repair costs and tax paymen ts. Remittances for cu r rent repair and management of real proper ty abroad are normally limited to the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 every two or three years. Depending on the number of dependen ts abroad, the t ran s fer of 20 percent or 50 percent of the salary of a fore igner working in Cameroon is perm i t ted upon presentation of the app rop r ia te pay voucher, provided that the trans- fer takes place within one month of the pay period concerned. Except in the case of fore igners work- ing in Cameroon temporarily and insured pre- viously, paymen ts of insurance p rem iums to fo r- eign countries are not perm i t ted if the same type of insurance is available in Cameroon. Resident and nonresident travelers to countries outside the Operations Account Area may take out up to CFAF 20,000 in BE AC bank notes. Travelers to other coun tr ies of the Operations Account Area may, sub ject to prior declaration, take out any amount in BE AC bank notes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank notes and coins up to the amount they declared on entry, or up to CIAF 50,000 if no declaration was made. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Export transactions valued at CFAF 50,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exports to all countries are subject to domiciliation requirements for the appropriate documents. Proceeds f rom ex- ports to all countries must be repatriated within 60 days of the payment date stipulated in the sales contract, and proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered within a month of collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries f rom foreign assets, must be collected within a month of the due date and surrendered within a month of collection if received in foreign currency. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of coun- tries outside the Operations Account Area. Capital Capital movements between Cameroon and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries are free of exchange con- trol. Capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Emigrants to countries outside the Opera- tions Account Area may transfer abroad their full savings, provided that they have met their tax obligations. With the exception of controls over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Cameroon, the controls on capital movements do not apply to rela- tions with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All foreign se- curities and titles embodying claims on nonresi- dents must be deposited with an authorized inter- mediary and be classified as foreign, whether they belong to residents or nonresidents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON 83 Direct investments abroad2 require the prior ap- proval of the Ministry of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from rein- vestment of undistributed profits or they do not exceed 20 percent of the fair market value of the company being purchased. The full or partial liqui- dation of such investments requires only a report af ter the fact to the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participa- tion that had previously been approved as constitut- ing a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct in- vestments in Cameroon3 require prior declaration to the Minister of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request postponement. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in Cam- eroon requires only reporting to the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relin- quishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment in Cameroon. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Cameroo- nian investments abroad or foreign investments in Cameroon, must be reported to the Minister of Fi- nance within 20 days of each operation. Direct in- vestments are defined as investments implying con- trol of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Cameroon requires prior autho- rization from the Minister of Finance and must sub- sequently be reported to him. Exempt from authori- zation, however, and subject only to a report af ter the fact are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Cameroonian Gov- ernment, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Cam- eroon has already been authorized. Borrowing abroad by natural and juridical per- sons, whether public or private, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance and including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Cameroon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Cameroon. Including those made by companies in Cameroon that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Cameroon. must subsequently be reported to him. The follow- ing are, however, exempt from this authorization and require only a report: (1) loans directly con- nected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the fi- nancing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (2) loans contracted by registered banks and credit institutions. Lending abroad by natural and juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance and must subsequently be reported to him. The follow- ing are, however, exempt from prior authorization and require only a report: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or be- tween foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (3) loans not exceeding CFAF 500,000, provided the maturity does not ex- ceed two years and the rate of interest does not exceed 6 percent a year. The Investment Code of November 1990 aims to promote the development of natural resources, job creation, production, and exportation, especially of manufactures, and the transfer of appropriate tech- nology. Under the code, generalized fiscal benefits are provided to encourage exports and the develop- ment of natural resources, and fu r ther benefits are provided to enterprises qualifying for inclusion in one of five regimes. The generalized fiscal benefits include an exemp- tion of export duties and taxes on insurance and transportation for exports and a deduction of 5 per- cent of the value of exports f rom the exporter's tax- able income. In addition, firms are exempted under certain conditions from all duties and purchase taxes on raw materials or intermediate inputs pro- duced in Cameroon or in the UDEAC region. The new code grants fiscal benefits to domestic and foreign firms undertaking new projects in the raw material processing, mining, forestry, agriculture, fishing, food, construction, equipment mainte- nance, industrial research, and tourism sectors. These benefits are provided under five regimes, as follows: (1) The basic regime applies to firms whose investment is labor intensive (defined as one job per ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 84 CAMEROON CFAF 10 million investment), is export-oriented, or uses domestic natural resources. During a three- year installation phase, firms under this regime are entitled to a reduced tax rate of 15 percent, includ- ing their fiscal and customs duties, internal turn- over tax, and all other import taxes relating to im- ported inputs; in addition, they are entitled to certain fiscal exemptions. During a five-year exploi- tation phase, certain tax exemptions are main- tained. (2) The small and medium-size enterprise regime applies to firms that are labor intensive (de- fined as one job per CFAF 5 million investment), whose investment is of modest size (less than CFAF 1.5 billion), and where Cameroonian par- ticipation is at least 35 percent of capital. The bene- fits under this regime are the same as those under the basic regime, except that during the exploitation phase of seven years, firms may deduct from taxable income 25 percent of salaries paid to Cameroonian nationals. (3) The strategic regime applies to enter- prises declared strategic by the Cameroonian au- thorities and fulfilling certain other conditions. The installation phase is 5 years and receives the same benefits as those under the basic regime. The ex- ploitation phase is 12 years, and receives the same benefits as under the small and medium-size enter- prise regime. (4) The free trade zone regime is avail- able to enterprises that are devoted exclusively to exporting; terms are fixed by individual agree- ments. (5) Firms that expand by more than 20 per- cent or that satisfy certain other conditions are eligi- ble for benefits under the reinvestment regime. For three years, firms are subject to a reduced tax rate of 15 percent, which includes their fiscal and customs duties, internal turnover tax, and all other import taxes relating to imported inputs; in addition, they are entitled to certain fiscal exemptions. Law No. 90/19 of August 10, 1990 provides that Cameroonian interests should hold at least one third of the share capital of each banking institution. This law also requires banks with foreign majority participation to submit to the monetary authorities' information on all their current transactions abroad and to obtain prior approval for any changes in the structure of their equity holdings. Foreign man- agers must be approved by the monetary authorities and reside in Cameroon. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold jewelry in Cameroon. They require the ap- proval of the Ministry of Mines, Water, and Energy to hold gold in any other form. Such approval is normally given only to industrial users, including jewelers. Newly mined gold must be declared to the Ministry of Mines, Water, and Energy, which autho- rizes either its exportation or its sale to domestic industrial users; exports are made only to France. Imports and exports of gold require prior authoriza- tion by the Ministry of Mines, Water, and Energy and by the Minister of Finance, which is seldom granted for imports. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quan- tity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated arti- cles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1991 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Canada is the Canadian Dollar. The Canadian authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market; however, the authorities intervene from time to time to main- tain orderly conditions in that market. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. The closing exchange rate (midpoint) for the U.S. dollar on De- cember 31,1991 was Can$l. 1556 per US$1. Forward exchange rates are similarly determined in the mar- ket, and it is not the practice of the authorities to intervene. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. On March 25, 1952, Canada notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There are no exchange controls. The licensing of imports and exports, where required, is handled mostly by the Department of External Affairs and International Trade, but other departments also is- sue licenses in specialized fields. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Import permits are required only for drugs, a few agricultural items, certain textile products and clothing, certain endangered species of fauna and flora, natural gas, and material and equipment for the production or use of atomic energy. Import per- mits are required for carbon and specialty steel products for monitoring purposes only. For some agricultural items, such as butter and milk, permits are rarely issued, while others may be subject to a quota. Commercial imports of certain products from any source are tightly controlled or prohibited; the main products affected are margarine and mo- tor vehicles. Pursuant to the Canada-United States Free Trade Agreement, the prohibition on imports of used vehicles from the United States is being phased out over a five-year period starting in 1989. Imports of clothing and certain textile products are subject to special measures of protection for domes- tic industries. These measures usually take the form of bilateral restraint agreements (Memoranda of Understanding) concluded under the Multifiber Ar- rangement that was negotiated within the framework of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. Exports and Export Proceeds The surrender of the proceeds from exports is not required, and exchange receipts are freely dispos- able. The principal legal instrument governing ex- port controls is the Export and Import Permits Act, which controls trade through the establishment of an Export Control List and an Area Control List. The Export Control List identifies all goods that are con- trolled for reasons of security, supply considera- tions, resource upgrading, and implementing inter- governmental arrangements. It includes all items identified in the Coordinating Committee for Multi- lateral Export Controls munitions list, the industrial list of strategic goods, and the Atomic Energy List. Permits are required for the exportation of all goods listed to all countries except the United States. Items on the Atomic Energy List require permits regard- less of destination. The Area Control List includes a limited number of countries to which all exports are controlled unless they are specifically exempted by a general permit. At present, two countries are on the Area Control List: the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and South Africa. All exporters are eligible for cer- tain financial facilities operated by the Export De- velopment Corporation, including political risk insurance. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requirements are imposed on exchange payments for, or exchange receipts from, invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents. Specific restrictions exist on inward direct investments in the financial, broadcasting, telecom- munication, transportation, fisheries, and energy sectors. In addition, under the provisions of the Investment Canada Act, new foreign investments are in general subject to notification requirements 85 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 86 CANADA but not to review, and direct acquisitions of busi- nesses with assets exceeding Can$5 million and in- direct acquisitions involving assets exceeding Can$50 million are subject to review. In addition, acquisitions below these limits and investments to establish new businesses in culturally sensitive sec- tors may be reviewed. Investments that are subject to review are required only to pass a test of yielding net benefit to Canada. There are no controls over outward direct investment, nor over inward or out- ward portfolio investment. Although higher ratios may be authorized on a case-by-case basis, in gen- eral the domestic assets of a foreign-owned bank operating in Canada must not exceed twenty times its authorized capital; the total domestic assets of all non-U.S. banks must not exceed 12 percent of the total domestic assets of all banks operating in Canada.1 Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. However, exports of gold and all other products containing gold to countries named in the Area Control List require an export permit from the Minister of Exter- nal Affa irs, under the authority of the Export and Import Permits Act. Gold of U.S. origin requires a permit when re-exported to all countries except the United States. Commercial imports of articles con- taining minor quantities of gold, such as watches, are unrestricted and free of license. Legal tender gold coins with a face value of Can$100 have been issued annually since 1976, and Can$50 "bullion" coins, containing 1 ounce of gold, have also been issued since 1979. In 1982, Can$5 and Can$10 coins containing Vio and lk of an ounce of gold, respec- tively, were issued; in 1986, a coin containing l/2 an ounce of gold with a face value of Can$50 was issued. Changes During 1991 Imports and Import Payments January 2. Following a positive in jury finding by the Canadian International Trade Tribunal (CITT), definitive antidumping duties were imposed on im- ports of photo albums and self-adhesive leaves from Indonesia, the Philippines, and Thailand. 1 Under the Canada-United States Free Trade Agreement, in- vestment review thresholds for U.S. investors are being raised to Gan$150 million by 1992 for direct acquisitions and are to be phased out altogether for indirect acquisitions, while restrictions with respect to market shares and asset growth of U.S. bank subsidiaries have been liberalized. January 25. The CITT rescinded its injury finding against imports of drywell screws from Germany, Japan, the Republic of Korea, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and the United States; the assessment of definitive antidumping duties was therefore termi- nated, effective from the date of the CITT decision. February 1. The CITT found no in jury with respect to allegedly dumped importations of lint rollers, lint roller refills, lint brushes, and fabric combs from the United States. March 6. The CITT rescinded its injury finding against imports of vehicle-washing equipment from the United States; the assessment of definitive anti- dumping duties was therefore terminated, effective from the date of the CITT decision. July 26. Following a positive finding of in jury by the CITT, definitive antidumping duties were im- posed on imports of carbon welded steel pipes f rom Argentina, India, Romania, Taiwan province of China, Thailand, and Venezuela. September 6. Following a positive finding of in jury by the CITT, definitive antidumping duties were imposed on imports of stainless steel welded pipe from Taiwan province of China. September 25. Following a preliminary determina- tion of dumping by the National Revenue, a provi- sional antidumping duty at the rate of 26.1 percent was imposed on imports of carbon steel welded pipe from Brazil, Luxembourg, Poland, Turkey, and Yugoslavia. September 30. The CITT rescinded its in jury find- ing against imports of ABS resins from the Republic of Korea; the assessment of definitive antidumping duties was therefore terminated, effective from the date of the CITT decision. October 2. Following a positive finding of injury by the CITT, definitive antidumping duties were im- posed on imports of beer from the United States for use or consumption in the Province of British Columbia. October 10. Following a preliminary determination of dumping by the National Revenue, a provisional antidumping duty at the rate of 18.5 percent was imposed on imports of flat wooden toothpicks from the United States. November 27. The CITT rescinded its injury find- ing against imports of artificial graphite electrodes and connecting pins from Belgium, Japan, Sweden, and the United States; the assessment of antidump- ing duties was therefore terminated, effective from the date of the CITT decision. December 19. Following a preliminary determina- tion of dumping by the National Revenue, a provi- sional antidumping duty at the rate of 14.26 percent was imposed on imports of broadloom carpets from the United States. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA 87 December 22. The CITT injury finding against im- ports of alpine ski poles from France and Italy expired in accordance with the sunset provision of the Special Import Measures Act; the assessment of definitive antidumping duties was therefore terminated, effec- tive from the expiration date of the finding. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAPE VERDE (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cape Verde is the Cape Verde Escudo, which is pegged to a weighted basket of currencies representing nine important trading partners. The exchange rate of the Cape Verde es- cudo in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is fixed daily on the basis of quotations for the U.S. dollar and the other currencies included in the basket. On December 31, 1991, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were C.V. Esc 65.86 and C.V. Esc 66.47, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions are under the control of the Department of Foreign Relations and Exchange Control (DRE), which is a department of the Bank of Cape Verde (the central bank). All im- ports, exports, and re-exports are subject to licens- ing, except for transactions not exceeding C.V. Esc 2.5 million. Foreign exchange transactions, including the surrender of foreign exchange pro- ceeds, are effected through the central bank. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency The central bank determines the currency in which export proceeds should be repatriated. Cape Verde has bilateral payments agreements with An- gola and Sao Tome and Principe, which are cur- rently inoperative. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open demand deposit ac- counts in local currency. These accounts may be credited only with the proceeds f rom the sale or surrender of receipts of convertible currencies and may be debited for payment of any obligations in Cape Verde. Outward transfers of balances from such accounts may be made freely. Embassies and foreign officials of embassies are required to open special accounts in foreign currency and in local currency; such accounts must be replenished ex- clusively with foreign exchange. Foreign enter- prises may maintain accounts in foreign currency. Special Accounts (Emigrants) Three types of special interest-bearing deposit accounts are available for emigrants: (1) foreign ex- change deposit accounts; (2) savings-credit deposit accounts; and (3) special accounts in Cape Verde escudos. These accounts can be credited only with convertible foreign currencies. Holders of savings- credit deposit accounts can benefit from loans on special terms for financing small-scale projects. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to licensing or prior regis- tration requirement, except for transactions not ex- ceeding C.V. Esc 50,000 and unaccompanied bag- gage.1 Imports of goods not exceeding C.V. Esc 100 million and not involving payments from the coun- try's foreign exchange resources are also exempted from the preregistration requirement. Licenses, which are issued by the General Directorate of Commerce in the Ministry of Economy, Transporta- tion and Communications, require the endorse- ment of the central bank and are generally valid for 90 days; they are renewable. The provision of for- eign exchange is guaranteed when the license has been previously certified by the central bank. Li- censes are, in general, granted liberally for imports of medicines, capital goods, and other develop- ment-related equipment. Imports of nonessentials are restricted. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require prior authori- zation. Any person traveling abroad may take out foreign currency equivalent to C.V. Esc 20,000. Cape Verdean nationals traveling abroad as tourists are required to buy round-trip tickets in advance and to make a deposit equivalent to a one-way ticket to the country of destination; this deposit is re- funded upon return to Cape Verde. Cape Verdean nationals studying abroad are allowed up to a max- imum of C.V. Esc 20,000 on leaving the country; students who do not hold scholarships are, in addi- tion, entitled to a monthly allowance that varies according to the country of destination. Persons 1 Effective January 1, 1992, the licensing requirement for cer- tain import categories (equivalent to 30 percent of merchandise imports) was eliminated. 88 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAPE VERDE 89 traveling abroad on business may take an amount of foreign currency that varies according to the coun try of destination and the duration of each business trip. Persons traveling abroad for medi- cal trea tment may take out an amount of foreign currency that varies according to medical needs. Applications for these allowances must be accom- panied by medical certification before the trip, and medical bills must be presented on re tu rn to Cape Verde. Transfers by foreign technical assistance per- sonnel working in Cape Verde are authorized within the limits specified in the individual con- tracts. These contracts, as well as other contracts involving fore ign exchange expenditures, are sub- ject to prior screening by the central bank. Re- quests by other foreigners are examined on a case- by-case basis. The exportation of domestic cur- rency by travelers is prohibited. Foreign travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency, but may re-export only up to the amount of currency they declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to licensing and to ap- proval by the central bank, except for transactions not exceeding C.V. Esc 2,500.2 Export proceeds must be repatriated within three months from the date of issuance of the license, but this period may be extended. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the central bank. The importation of domestic cur- rency is prohibited. Capital Any private capital transaction must be approved in advance by the central bank, but legally imported capital may be re-exported without limitation. The exportation of resident-owned capital is not nor- mally permitted. Capital in certain foreign invest- ments is allowed to be repatriated in equal install- ments within a period of less than two years. Gold Imports, exports, or re-exports of gold in either coins or bars require prior licensing by the monetary authorities. Changes During 1991 Imports and Import Payments December 30. The import-licensing system (pla- fond) was liberalized, and import procedures were simplified (Decree 193/91). Changes During 1992 Exports and Export Proceeds 2The licensing requirement was abolished on January 1, 1992. January 1. The licensing requirement for exports and re-exports was eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Central A f r ican Republic is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French f ranc, the intervention currency, at the fixed ra te of CFAF 1 per F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French f rancs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the ra te of CFAF 50 per F1, free of commission. Buying and selling ra tes for cer- tain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed ra te for the French f r anc and the ra tes for the currencies concerned in the Paris exchange marke t. A com- mission of 0.25 percent is levied on all capital t rans fe rs to coun tr ies that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treasury and for the expenses of s tuden ts. There are are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, the exchange control measures of the Central African Republic do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Gabon, Equatorial Guinea, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all pay- ments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control All d r a ft legislation, directives, correspon- dence, and contracts having a direct or indirect bearing on the f inances of the state requ ire the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, who has delegated his approval au tho r i ty to the Director of the Budge t. The Au tonomous Amor t iza t ion Fund (CAADE) in the M in is try of F inance supervises borrowing abroad, and the O f f ice of Foreign Fi- nancial Relations in the same ministry supervises lending abroad, issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of fo re ign securities in the Central A f r ican Republic, and inward and ou twa rd direct invest- men t. Exchange control is adm in is tered by the Minister of Finance, who has delegated some of his approval authority to the BEAC,2 to the autho- rized banks, and to the Postal Administration. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Export declarations are to be made through the Directorate of Foreign Trade in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, except those for gold, which are to be made through the BEAC. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since the Central African Republic is an Opera- tions Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other coun- tries are usually made in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on those applied in France. The principal nonresident accounts are foreign accounts in francs. BEAC bank notes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Bangui by the Bank of France or the Banque centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de rOuest (BCEAO) may be credited freely to foreign accounts in francs. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are suspended. Imports from all other countries are not subject to licensing requirements or quotas. Imports of fire- arms are prohibited irrespective of origin. Import declarations are required for all imports, and all import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import license entitles importers to purchase the aThe CFA f ranc circulating in the Central Afr ican Republic is issued by the Bank of Central African States (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, Chad, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon. 2The authority delegated to the BEAC relates to (1) control over the external position of the banks, (2) the granting of exceptional travel allocations in excess of the basic allowances, and (3) control over the repatriation of net export proceeds. 90 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 91 necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment the approval authority has been delegated to autho- rized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac- tion has been approved or does not require authori- zation. Transfers of income accruing to nonresi- dents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. There are no limits on foreign exchange alloca- tions for tourist and business travel, and residents may obtain foreign bank notes and traveler's checks in foreign currencies or make payments through commercial banks without restriction. Residents traveling as tourists may take with them a maximum of CFAF 50,000 a year a person in domestic bank notes. For business travel, the maximum limit on domestic bank notes that can be exported is CFAF 10,000 a person a day. Foreigners working in the Central African Re- public are permitted to transfer their entire net sal- ary upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign cur- rency and other foreign means of payment up to the amount they declared on entry; they may reconvert up to CFAF 50,000 in BE AC bank notes into foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are suspended. All exports require a declaration. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatri- ated within one month of the due date; the latter must not be later than 90 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination, unless special authoriza- tion is obtained. Export proceeds received in cur- rencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered. All export transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected within one month of the due date and, if received in foreign currency, surrendered within one month of the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident trav- elers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account Area. Capital Capital movements between the Central African Republic and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other coun- tries require exchange control approval and are re- stricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All foreign borrowing by the Gov- ernment or its public and semipublic enterprises, as well as all foreign borrowing with a government guarantee, requires the prior approval of the Direc- tor of the Budget. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may apply) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the is- suing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Central African Republic; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those controls over the sale or introduction of foreign se- curities in the Central African Republic, the mea- sures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments abroad3 require the prior ap- proval of the Ministry of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from rein- vestment of undistributed profits; the full or partial liquidation of such investments also requires prior approval from the Ministry of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participa- tion that had previously been approved as constitut- ing a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct in- vestments in the Central African Republic4 must be 3Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Central African Republic and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in the Central African Republic. including those made by companies in the Central African Republic that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in the Central African Republic. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 92 CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC declared to the Minister of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from rein- vestment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declara- tion during which he may request postponement. The fu ll or partial liquidation of direct investments in the Central African Republic must also be de- clared to the Minister, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had pre- viously been approved as constituting a direct in- vestment in the Central African Republic. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Central African Republic invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in the Central African Republic, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days of each operation. Direct invest- ments are defined as those that imply control of a company or an enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a com- pany whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Central African Republic requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a government guarantee, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in the Central African Republic has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in the Central African Re- public, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Central African Republic of juridical persons whose regis- tered office is abroad, requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the render- ing of services abroad by the persons or firms men- tioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between the Central African Re- public and countries abroad or between the foreign countries in which those persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of the loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is less than CFAF 500,000. Lending abroad by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in the Central African Re- public, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Central African Republic of juridical persons whose regis- tered office is abroad, requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks, and (2) other loans when the total amount outstanding of the loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. Making loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation, except when the amount of the loan granted abroad by the lender is less than CFAF 500,000. Under Law No. 62/355 of February 19, 1963 (as amended by Ordinance No. 69/47 of September 2, 1969) and UDEAC Decision No. 18/65 of December 14, 1965, industrial, tourist, agricultural, and min- ing enterprises (both foreign and domestic) estab- lished in the Central African Republic are granted, under certain conditions, a reduction in duties and taxes on the importation of specified equipment; in addition, certain enterprises receive exemption from direct taxes on specified income. The law also provides for three categories of pref- erential treatment (A, B, and C), in accordance with which fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in new enterprises or in the expan- sion of existing ones in most sectors of the economy, except the commercial sector. Requests for approval for preferential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of Industry, who is the Chairman of the Investment Commission, which considers the ap- plication. If a positive decision is given by the Com- mission, the proposed authorization is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatments A and C are granted by decree issued by the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatment B is granted by an Act of the Board of Directors of the Equatorial Customs Union upon the recommendation of the Council of Ministers. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in the Central African Republic. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require a license, which is seldom granted; in practice, imports and exports are made by an authorized purchasing office. Exempt from prior ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 93 authorization are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quan- tity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated arti- i Purchase, Import, and Export of Gold and Raw Diamonds, ^, ^ . ^nM CHAD (Position on December 31, 2991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Chad is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF1 = F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buy- ing and selling rates for certain other foreign curren- cies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates for the currencies concerned in the Paris exchange market. A commission of 0.25 percent is levied on all capital transfers abroad by the banks for their own account, except those made for the account of the Treasury, for students' bursaries, and to the mem- ber countries of the BEAC. There are no taxes or subsidies on the purchase or sale of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, Chad's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and ter- ritories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Trea- sury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Com- oros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. However, they must be declared and be made only through authorized banks and with bank checks. Payments to all other countries are subject to exchange control. Forward cover for imports is permitted only for specified commodities and requires the prior ap- proval of the Office of the Minister of Economy and Commerce. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance supervises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad, and inward and outward direct investment; it also is- sues import and export authorizations for gold. Ex- change control is administered by the Minister of Finance, who has delegated his approval authority in part to the External Finance and Exchange Con- trol Subdirectorate, which issues instructions to the JThe CFA f ranc in circulation in Chad is issued by the Bank of Central African States (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cam- eroon, the Central African Republic, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon. authorized intermediaries. All exchange transac- tions relating to countries outside the Operations Account Area must be effected through authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since Chad is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Mo- naco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Set- tlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on those applied in France. BEAC bank notes may be credited freely to foreign ac- counts in francs maintained by the foreign corre- spondent of an authorized bank, provided that the notes are repatriated to the BEAC agency in Chad by the correspondent bank concerned. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. Im- ports of wheat, wheat flour, and sugar from all sources require licenses. All other imports from countries in the Operations Account Area and from European Community (EC) countries (the original member states) other than France may be made freely. All imports from non-EC countries outside the Operations Account Area are subject to licens- ing in accordance with an annual import program. This program and the amount of foreign exchange required to implement it are determined by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry on the basis of proposals drawn up by the Committee on Imports. The import program contains global quotas for imports from non-EC countries outside the Opera- tions Account Area and a special quota for imports of cotton textiles from countries judged to have ab- normal competitive advantages. In addition, the 94 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD 95 program contains global quotas for imports of wheat, wheat flour, and sugar from EC countries, countries in the Operations Account Area, as well as from other countries. Specified goods from cer- tain neighboring countries not belonging to the Op- erations Account Area, up to a value of CFAF 3 million a year in each direction for a single importer, may be imported through compensation transac- tions. The issuance of import licenses for sugar and a specified brand of cigarettes has been suspended until fur ther notice. All import transactions valued at CFAF 100,000 or more and relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Import licenses entitle importers to purchase the necessary ex- change, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment, the approval authority has been delegated to autho- rized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac- tion has been approved or does not require authori- zation. Transfers of bona fide income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely. Some current payments, however, may be subject to delay. Insurance on all imports shipped to Chad with values exceeding CFA 500,000 on f .o .b. terms must be arranged with local insurance companies by the importer. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a person a trip, for any number of trips a year. This allocation is increased by the equiv- alent of CFAF 50,000 for each child under 10 years of age. For pilgrimages to Mecca, an additional alloca- tion of the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 may be granted. Business travelers to foreign countries re- ceive a daily allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 60,000, with a maximum allocation of the equivalent of up to CFAF 500,000 a person a trip; the External Finance and Exchange Control Subdirec- torate may approve additional amounts. Travelers to foreign countries may take out a maximum of CFAF 30,000 in BEAC bank notes; the limit for chil- dren under 10 is CFAF 5,000. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank notes and coins up to the amount they declared on entry, in addition to amounts they remitted from foreign bank accounts. If they made no declaration, they may take out up to the equivalent of CFAF 150,000, in addition to a maximum of CFAF 30,000 in BEAC bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. All ex- ports to non-EC countries outside the Operations Account Area require licenses. Specified exports to certain neighboring countries, including Nigeria and Sudan, may be made through compensation transactions. Exports of cotton are the monopoly of COTONTCHAD. Export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 50,000. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surren- dered. Export proceeds normally must be received within 180 days of the arrival of the commodities at their destination. The proceeds must be collected and, if received in a foreign currency, surrendered within one month of the due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and, if re- ceived in foreign currency, be surrendered within two months of the due date. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) and other foreign means of pay- ment. Residents bringing in foreign bank notes and coins in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 must exchange them for CFA francs within eight days of their return. Capital Capital movements between Chad and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital trans- fers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All foreign se- curities, foreign currencies, and titles embodying ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 96 CHAD claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in Chad by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in Chad. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable or sus- pended insofar as they would be contrary to the exchange control regulations) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those controls over the sale or introduc- tion of foreign securities in Chad, the measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments abroad2 require the prior ap- proval of the Minister of Finance, irrespective of the method of financing as does the fu ll or partial liqui- dation of such investments. Foreign direct invest- ments in Chad3 require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance unless they take the form of a mixed-economy enterprise. The fu ll or partial liqui- dation of direct investments in Chad must also be declared to the Minister of Finance. Both the mak- ing and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Chadian investments abroad or foreign investments in Chad, must be reported to the Minister within 30 days of each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad requires prior authoriza- tion from the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connec- tion with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Chadian Government, and (2) shares similar to se- curities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Chad has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of juridical persons whose reg- istered office is abroad, requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Chad and those made by overseas branches or subsidiaries of companies in Chad. Including those made by companies in Chad that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Chad. prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the render- ing of services abroad by the persons or firms men- tioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries in which these persons or firms take part; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount out- standing of the loan does not exceed CFAF 10 mil- lion for any one borrower, with an interest rate no higher than 7 percent and a maturity of two years or less. The contracting of loans referred to under (3) that are free of authorization, and each repay- ment thereon, must be declared to the Minister of Finance within 30 days of the operation. Lending abroad by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of juridical persons whose reg- istered office is abroad requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries in which these persons or firms take part; and (2) other loans, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 5 million for any one lender. The making of loans referred to under (2) that are free of authoriza- tion, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Minister of Finance within 30 days of the operation. Commercial banks must maintain a specified minimum proportion of their assets in Chad. Under the Investment Code published on De- cember 9, 1987, any enterprise established in Chad, whe ther domestic or fore ign, is gran ted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemption f rom direct taxes on specified income. The code provides for four categories of enterprises that would receive various fo rms of p re fe ren t ial trea t- ment, including certain tax and other privileges. Requests for p re fe ren t ial t rea tment must be sub- mitted to the Minister of Finance, who, a f t er ex- amining the documents, transm i ts them to the Investment Commission. With the recommenda- tion of this Commission, the p ro ject is submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval. Gold Chad has issued gold coins with face values of CFAF 1,000, CFAF 3,000, CFAF 5,000, CFAF 10,000, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD 97 and CFAF 20,000, which are legal tender. Residents who are not producers of gold may not hold un- worked gold unless specifically authorized. Imports and exports of gold, whether unworked or refined, require prior authorization from the Ministry of Fi- nance and from the Directorate of Energy, Mines, and Geology, as well as a visa from the External Finance Department. Exempt from this require- ment are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and ex- ports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Exports of unworked gold and of raw dia- monds (as well as domestic purchases and sales of both) are the monopoly of the Office for Purchases, Sales, Imports, and Exports, which is an approved private company. Unworked gold may be exported only to France. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1991 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Chile is the Chilean Peso (Ch$). The official exchange rate of the Chilean peso is pegged to the U.S. dollar at a rate adjusted at daily intervals according to a schedule established on the basis of the domestic rate of inflation during the previous month, less the estimated world rate of inflation. On December 31, 1991, the official ex- change rate was Ch$372.16 per US$1. The official foreign exchange market (formal exchange market) consists of commercial banks, exchange houses, and other entities that are authorized by the Central Bank. Proceeds from exports of goods and services, payments for imports of goods and services, debt- service payments, remittances of dividends and profits, and authorized capital transactions, includ- ing loan receipts, must be transacted through this market. In addition, there is an informal exchange market through which all transactions not required to be channeled through the official foreign ex- change market take place. In both markets, private parties are free to negotiate exchange rates. The Central Bank conducts foreign exchange transactions vis-a-vis the official exchange market entities within margins of 5 percent above and be- low the official exchange rate. The Central Bank provides forward cover against exchange risk in the form of currency swaps. The maturity periods of forward transactions range from 5 days to 720 days. Commissions on exchange trans- actions are subject to an 18 percent value-added tax. The exchange rates of the Chilean peso against other currencies are determined on the basis of the peso exchange rate with respect to the U.S. dollar and of the U.S. dollar exchange rate with respect to other currencies quoted in foreign markets. The Central Bank has provided an exchange sub- sidy on the following service payments on some debts contracted before August 6,1982 (the original amount of the debt was about US$8 billion): (1) debtors to Chilean banks or financial companies whose debt is indexed to the official exchange rate; and (2) debtors with direct obligations abroad whose obligations were registered with the Central Bank. The subsidy is paid by means of notes in- dexed to inflation with a minimum maturity of six years, and carrying a 3 percent rate of interest. On December 31, 1991, the difference between the offi- cial rate and the subsidized rate was Ch$62.3 per US$1. As of this date, only those debtors whose obligations were equal to or less than US$50,000 on June 30,1985 had access to this subsidized rate. The stock of debt eligible in principle for the preferential exchange rate is estimated at US$67 million. How- ever, the actual amount for which this exchange rate will apply is expected to be negligible owing in part to the bankruptcy of many of the affected debtors, and the subsidy operations are expected to stop soon. Administration of Control The Council of the Central Bank is responsible for carrying out exchange control policy. The Chilean Copper Commission is responsible for supervising copper exports and all imports of the copper indus- try in accordance with general rules enacted by the Central Bank. A free trade agreement with Mexico was signed in September 1991. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Co- lombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank and the central banks of each of the countries concerned, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin Ameri- can Integration Association (LAIA). Net balances under the clearing system are settled in U.S. dol- lars. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are free of controls, with the exception of used motor vehicles. Most imports require a docu- ment (known as Informe de Importation) issued by the Central Bank, which must be obtained and processed through the intermediary local commercial bank. Pay- ment for visible trade transactions, through the offi- cial foreign exchange market, is not permitted unless an Informe de Importation has been issued. Importers who meet the documentary require- ments are granted access to the official foreign ex- change market regardless of the terms of the obliga- tion involved, provided that the supplier's interest continues to accrue until the date on which the foreign currency is sold. Tariffs are bound under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) at 35 percent. At pres- ent, imports are subject to a uniform tariff rate of 98 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE 99 11 percent. A few items are exempted from the general tariff regime. Exemptions include tar iffs ne- gotiated with LAI A countries. Imports of wheat, edible oil, and sugar are subject to a special regime involving price margins within which the after-duty price has to remain. In addition, tariff duties or surcharges are applied, on a temporary basis, to imports of certain products that are subsidized in the country of origin or dumped in Chile. Payments for Invisibles Specified allowances exist for certain transactions; central bank authorization is required for others and is provided upon presentation of appropriate docu- mentation. The established limit for tourist travel (in addition to the fares) is the equivalent of US$1,000 a trip for travel to Latin American and Caribbean countries and US$3,000 a trip to other countries. For travel by land to neighboring destinations, 20 per- cent of the allowance is provided in the form of foreign exchange and the rest in money orders. Higher amounts for travel other than tourism may be authorized by the Central Bank, upon presenta- tion of adequate justification. Travelers may also obtain additional foreign currency in the informal exchange market. Residents may purchase from commercial banks foreign exchange up to US$200 a month for study abroad, subscriptions to magazines, book pur- chases, registration in seminars, social security pay- ments, medical treatment payments, and remit- tances of rents earned by real estate owners living abroad. Purchases over US$200 a month require prior approval from the Central Bank. All of these transactions are subject to presentation of appropri- ate documents. Remittances of earnings by foreign workers must be channeled through the informal exchange market. Remittances of profits and divi- dends earned from foreign direct investments re- quire the prior approval of the Central Bank. There are no special provisions for exports of do- mestic bank notes. Insurance activities within the country are lim- ited to Chilean companies or to authorized foreign companies. Exports and Export Proceeds All produc ts may be free ly exported. All foreign exchange proceeds f rom exports in excess of US$1,000 mu st be surrendered through commer- cial banks, which are required to advise the Cen- tral Bank. Commercial banks are authorized to purchase all fore ign exchange proceeds spot f r om exporters. Expor ters are allowed to retain up to 5 percent of export proceeds in a special fore ign exchange account, which may be drawn upon to cover travel expenses and consultants' fees, bank costs and/or commissions, and other expenses in- volved in export schemes, but the cumu la t ive de- posits in any such account dur ing a 12-month period may not exceed US$500,000. W ind fa ll re- ceipts f rom copper exports of CODELCO (the state copper mines) must be deposited in a special for- eign currency account at the Central Bank, and withdrawals f rom this account are perm i t ted only under certain circumstances. Export proceeds subject to surrender require- ments must be repatriated within 150 days of ship- ment and surrendered within 11 days. However, export proceeds may be surrendered within 240 days of shipment if they are held as foreign ex- change deposits with resident banks. Extension of repatriation periods may be granted for certain products. As a means of expediting the operation of the drawback system in respect of small export values, exporters of eligible products (approximately 6 per- cent of the country's annual exports) have an option of taking a tax reimbursement (within 120 days of the surrender of the proceeds) in lieu of benefits under the existing import duty drawback scheme; alternatively, such exporters may avail themselves of the provisions of Law No. 19.024, under which they may draw back their payments of duties on imported inputs. Eligible products were defined initially as those whose average annual export values in 1990 were equal to or less than US$5 mil- lion. The list of eligible products is reviewed an- nually in the light of their export value during the previous year. Annual export values are also subject to ad jus tment each year. This tax refund was equal to 10 percent of the net export value of sales for those exporters of products whose annual export value was less than or equal to US$10 million; 5 per- cent for those exporters of products whose annual export value was between US$10 million and US$15 million; and 3 percent for products with an annual export value of US$15-18 million. Proceeds from Invisibles In general, foreign exchange proceeds from invis- ibles must be surrendered only when required by a legal provision. The same rule applies to royalties and copyright fees, commissions, proceeds from insurance, and other benefits related to foreign trade. There are no similar rules governing the pro- ceeds f rom family remittances or the surplus for- eign exchange from travel allocations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 100 CHILE There are no special provisions for imports of domestic bank notes. Capital All new foreign borrowing or refinancing of exist- ing credits by commercial banks requires prior reg- istration or approval from the Central Bank; the exceptions to this regulation are lines of credit of up to one-year maturity with foreign correspondents, and short-term loans for domestic relending. Short- term loans are subject to a limit determined mainly by a bank's capital and reserves. However, the Cen- tral Bank must still be notified of foreign borrowings even if they do not require its approval. All foreign borrowings, except for credits that are provided di- rectly to Chilean exporters by foreign importers, are subject to a reserve requirement of 20 percent, and this requirement may be satisfied by depositing the required balance in the Central Bank without inter- est or by entering into a special repurchase agree- ment with the Central Bank that effectively imposes a cost equivalent to the interest forgone. The length of the period during which the reserve requirement must be held in the Central Bank varies inversely with the maturity of the credit. Credits granted by foreign commercial banks to Chilean commercial banks as part of restructuring packages are exempt from the reserve requirement. Foreign capital may enter Chile under one of the following arrange- ments, depending on the purpose and type of the investment. (1) Title I, Chapter XIV of the Compendium of Rules on International Exchange stipulates, inter alia, that capital brought into the country in the form of foreign borrowing (creditos externos) must be sold through authorized banks. There is no mini- mum term on the maturity of foreign borrowing. Repatriation normally is allowed only in accordance with the amortization schedule established at the time of registration. Accelerated payments or exten- sions of payment are subject to special authoriza- tion. Since June 1990, under Chapter XXVI of Title I, individuals and legal entities, domiciled and resi- dent abroad, and meeting certain conditions, have been permitted to remit abroad proceeds from the sale of stocks of registered corporations domiciled in Chile that were purchased with funds abroad through the official exchange market. The remit- tance of dividends and profits accruing from such stocks is also allowed through the official exchange market. (2) Chapter XIV of Title I of the Compendium of Rules authorizes the Central Bank to make exemp- tions to the general rules enacted by it concerning the inflow and outflow of capital or credits. (3) Decree-Law No. 600 of July 7, 1974 (amended by Decree-Law No. 1748 of March 18, 1977), the Foreign Investment Statute, establishes a regime for long-term capital investment. Authorization to make a foreign exchange investment in Chile is granted by the Foreign Investment Committee through a contract containing undertakings that capital transfers to Chile will not normally exceed eight years for mining and three years for other projects. Investments of less than US$5 million may be approved by the Executive Secretary of the Com- mittee, with a few exceptions. There are no general limitations on profit remittances, but specific agree- ments in this regard may be included in the above- mentioned investment contract. Capital may be re- patriated after three years unless specified other- wise in the investment contract. Foreign investors can opt for a guaranteed annual corporate income tax at the rate of 49.5 percent over a period of ten years or may subject themselves to a tax system similar to that which is applied to domestic corpora- tions. (According to this system, foreign investors are subject to an effective tax rate of 32.5 percent.) Any foreign credits involved must be on terms au- thorized by the Central Bank. Foreign capital that entered Chile before the promulgation of Decree- Law No. 600 and that is not subject to that law continues to be subject to the regulations prevailing on the date of entry. Contract awards in the oil sector are decided by the Government under presidential decree; rights and responsibilities under such a de- cree may be vested in the Empresa Nacional de Petroleo (ENAP) by the Ministry of Mines. (4) Chapters XVIII and XIX of the Chilean Compen- dium of Rules on International Exchange, introduced in May 1985 and amended several times since, regu- late the purchase of selected Chilean foreign debt instruments abroad at a discount as well as their repatriation. Eligible instruments are defined as exter- nal debt payable in foreign currency outside Chile with a maturity of more than one year, the debtor of which may be either the Treasury, the Central Bank, a public sector entity, the Development Corporation (CORFO), a financial institution, or a private sector resident having a guarantee from a financial institu- tion. Chapter XIX governs the use of Chilean debt instruments by foreign residents for direct invest- ment in Chile with remittance rights. Upon approval from the Central Bank, the foreign currency obliga- tion is exchanged into a domestic currency obligation, the proceeds of which must be used for direct invest- ment purposes, with the intermediation of a financial institution; special regulations apply to repatriation of such capital as well as to dividend payments. Chapter XVIII specifies the regulations for the conversion into ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE 101 peso assets (without remittance rights) by residents and nonresidents of debt purchased at a discount abroad with foreign exchange not obtained in the official market and of private sector external debt not guaranteed by the Government. Transactions under Chapter XVIII are also channeled through financial institutions, subject to an overall quota assigned on the basis of an auction system. Under Chapter XIX foreign investors may sell their investments to domes- tic investors after paying a fee to the Central Bank. (5) Chapter XXVII of Title I of the Chilean Com- pendium of Rules on International Exchange, intro- duced in August 1990, provides that foreign capital investment funds may have access to the official exchange market for repatriation abroad of im- ported capital, profits earned on such capital, and payments of expenses involved in foreign invest- ment activities under certain conditions. Gold Chile has issued three gold coins, which are not legal tender. Monetary gold may be traded only by authorized houses, but ordinary transactions in gold between private individuals may be freely under- taken. Imports and exports of gold are unrestricted, subject to compliance with the normal formalities for import and export transactions, including registration with the Central Bank. Changes During 1991 Imports and Import Payments June 15. The ad valorem import tariff was reduced to 11 percent from 15 percent. Capital June 5. A reserve requirement of 20 percent was imposed on all new foreign borrowings, except for credits that are provided directly to Chilean export- ers by foreign importers. June 20. Credits granted by foreign commercial banks to Chilean commercial banks as part of re- structuring packages were exempted from the 20 percent reserve requirement. June 27. An alternative means of satisfying the 20 percent reserve requirement on new foreign bor- rowing in the form of a special repurchase agree- ment with the Central Bank was established. July 11. The 20 percent reserve requirement was extended to existing credits, except for credits with maturity of less than six months. The requirement on existing credits maturing between July 11 and December 31, however, would be phased. October 14. Under Chapter XIX, a f t er paying a fee to the Central Bank, foreign investors were allowed to sell their investments to domestic residents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the People's Republic of China is the Renminbi, and its un it is the Yuan. From July 5,1986 un t il December 15,1989, the exchange rate for the renminbi remained unchanged at Y 3.72 per US$1. On December 15, 1989, the au- thorities announced that the renminbi would be depreciated by 21.2 percent, e f fec t ive Decem- ber 16, to Y 4.72 per US$1. On November 17,1990, the renminbi was depreciated by a f u r t h er 9.6 per- cent. On April 9, 1991, China ad jus ted the official exchange ra te for the renminbi based on long-run developments in the balance of payments and in the costs and exchange rates of China's ma jor competitors and daily f luc tua t ions in the ex- change rates of ma jor currencies. Subsequently, the rate was ad ju s ted on 22 occasions and, by the end of 1991, it had depreciated by a f u r t h er 3.9 percent against the U.S. dollar. The exchange rates for the U .S. dollar and 20 other currencies are published daily by the State Administration of Exchange Control (SAEC);1 on December 31,1991, the buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar were Y 5.4206 and Y 5.4478, respectively, per US$1. Published rates for currencies other than those that are important in China's international transac- tions are changed whenever the calculated rate di- verges from the previously published rate by be- tween 0.5 percent and 1 percent. Beginning in November 1986, Chinese enterprises in the four economic zones of Shantou, Shenzhen, Ziamen, and Zhuhai, and foreign-funded enterprises (FFEs) (wholly owned subsidiaries of foreign companies and joint ventures) were permitted to transact rights to foreign exchange earnings in foreign ex- change adjustment centers at rates agreed upon between buyers and sellers under the supervision of the SAEC.2 In early 1988, all domestic economic entities that were allowed to retain foreign exchange earning rights were granted permission to trade in Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Iranian rials, Italian lire, Jap- anese yen, Macao patacas, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Pakistan rupees, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 2In addition, foreign-funded enterprises may buy and sell foreign exchange in the centers, although such trading is mostly limited to the centers established in the special economic zones and Shanghai. the ad ju s tm ent centers, and, at present, over ninety such centers have been established. Since December 1991, individual residents can buy and sell foreign exchange through authorized banks at rates established in the centers in conformity with the exchange control regulations. Each center is organized to match, buy, and sell orders or use the competitive o f fe r ing rate system under local SAEC au thor i ty — the centers are not in tegra ted into a national clearinghouse. Initially, a relatively small volume of transactions took place in these markets, but the volume has increased substan- tially since access to the centers was expanded. The renminbi depreciated in these markets f rom an average of Y 5.25 per US$1 in the f irst qua r ter of 1987 to Y 6.7 per US$1 in the f irst half of 1989, but subsequently appreciated to Y 5.7 per US$1 by December 1990. At the end of 1991, the average rate in the fore ign exchange ad ju s tment centers was Y 5.9 per US$1. Sales of foreign exchange consist of sales of actual foreign exchange by FFEs and of foreign exchange retention quotas by Chinese enterprises (the actual foreign exchange having been surrendered to the state). Purchases of actual foreign exchange are effected by FFEs, which, according to the terms of their contracts as approved by the Ministry of For- eign Economic Relations and Trade (MOFERT), can be used for designated purposes including their own operating needs, debt repayment, and remit- tances. Domestic enterprises, which are approved by MOFERT to import, can purchase foreign ex- change that is registered at the local SAEC and can be used to acquire foreign exchange from the state reserves at the prevailing official rate. SAEC autho- rization depends on conformity with the priority uses of foreign exchange as set out in the industrial policy consistent with the purposes of the enter- prise. Requests for foreign exchange to finance im- ports of luxuries or judged to be speculative in na- ture are not permitted. The SAEC must approve the use of foreign exchange purchased in the adjust- ment centers, and in February 1989, regulations were issued specifying the priority uses of foreign exchange. Imports of inputs for the agricultural sec- tor, textiles, and technologically advanced and light industries were given priority, while purchases of foreign exchange for imports of a wide range of consumer goods, including clothing and electronic products, were prohibited. 102 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 103 Forward exchange rates are published for 15 cur- rencies.3 China does not apply a system of forward premiums and discounts but instead uses the spot rate plus a forward charge. Forward transactions are permitted only in connection with an underlying trade transaction. When banks sell renminbi for- ward, they levy a charge; when they buy, they levy a charge only on the deutsche mark, Netherlands guilder, Japanese yen, and Swiss franc. Rates are given for one to six months; transactions can be renewed for a fur ther six months, but not for longer than one year. Forward charges reflect interest rates and trends in international markets in the curren- cies concerned. In recent years, the Bank of China has rarely engaged in forward transactions in renminbi. Administration of Control The People's Bank of China (PBC) exercises cen- tral bank functions and control over foreign ex- change; the SAEC, as a government institution un- der the leadership of the PBC, is responsible for implementing exchange regulations and for control- ling all foreign exchange transactions in accordance with state policy. There are a number of SAEC sub- bureaus in the provinces, main municipalities, au- tonomous regions, and special economic zones. The Bank of China (BOC) is China's specialized foreign exchange bank. Other banks and financial institu- tions, including affiliates of nonresident banks, may handle designated transactions with the approval of the SAEC. Currently, more than one hundred in- stitutions are authorized to handle foreign exchange transactions. The China International Trust and In- vestment Corporation (CITIC) and other local finan- cial institutions are authorized to conduct transac- tions connected with investments of foreign capital in China. Individuals and financial institutions may hold foreign exchange but generally may not deal in it or conduct arbitrage operations. Special exchange control measures are applied to special economic zones, the 14 designated coastal cities, and border regions. Foreign exchange transactions at the official ex- change rate are generally conducted in accordance with a foreign exchange plan. The PBC has respon- sibility for foreign exchange reserves and external borrowing. Within guidelines recommended to the State Council by the PBC on balance of payments management and total external borrowing, MOFERT prepares estimates for those parts of the foreign 3Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. exchange plan dealing with fore ign t rade, fore ign loans, and China's external assistance program; the Ministry of Finance prepares the fore ign ex- change budge ts of other government depar t- men ts. The SAEC draws up the section of the plan covering local and provincial non trade transac- tions, receipts f rom overseas Chinese, and indi- v idual receipts. The State Planning Commission (SPC) coordinates and balances the overall foreign exchange plan and submits it to the State Council for approval. Following approval, the plan is sent back to the various localities and ministries for implementation. The SAEC is responsible for su- pervising the implementation of the fore ign ex- change plan. The foreign exchange plan inc ludes transac- tions with countries w i th which China maintains bilateral paymen ts agreements. The annual plan is divided into quar ter ly plans, and, at the end of each quarter, the SAEC and the SPC review the implementation of the plan and determine whe ther corrections are necessary. That part of the foreign exchange plan dealing with t rade is broken down by commodity. The actual imple- mentation of the plan is delegated to the local level, where enterprises are assigned fore ign ex- change targe ts and ceilings on fore ign exchange use, which determine access to the foreign ex- change ad ju s tm ent centers. Unexpected events, such as changes in foreign trade policies, might necessitate a revision of the plan. Prescription of Currency During 1991, bilateral payments agreements with Afghanistan, Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Ghana, Guinea, Hungary, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Mongolia, Pakistan, Poland, Romania, and the former U.S.S.R. were transformed into trade agree- ments based on normal commercial settlement terms in convertible currencies. As of the end of 1991, operative bilateral payments agreements were maintained with Bangladesh, Cuba, and the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea. Under these agreements, imbalances emerging toward the end of each year are settled in additional deliveries of goods. Noncommercial transactions are settled on a current basis in convertible currencies, except for part of such transactions with the Democratic Peo- ple's Republic of Korea and all transactions with Cuba, which pass through the clearing account. Payments to and from countries with which China has bilateral payments agreements are made in the currencies of these countries and in accordance with the procedures set for th in those agreements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 104 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA In other cases, where there are no specific regula- tions prescribing the currencies to be used in trans- actions, they are determined by terms agreed under the respective contracts. Nonresident and Foreign Currency Accounts Nonresidents4 in China for a short period may open nonresident accounts with the BOC and other authorized banks and financial institutions. FFEs, including joint ventures, may also open foreign ex- change current accounts and use them to make payments abroad and certain authorized transac- tions in China, for instance, between holders of such accounts. On a case-by-case basis, the SAEC may authorize Chinese enterprises to open foreign exchange accounts. Branches of foreign banks may hold convertible renminbi accounts in connection with commercial or noncommercial transactions. Renminbi may be purchased for such an account only on presentation of documentary evidence that the money will be used in the designated transac- tion. The BOC and other authorized banks and fi- nancial institutions may check any use made of ren- minbi in such accounts. Branches of foreign banks in the special economic zones may lend in foreign exchange and accept foreign currency deposits from FFEs. Individuals may open resident foreign currency savings accounts at the BOC and other authorized banks and may withdraw foreign currency from, or deposit it to, such accounts without restriction, make payments abroad, or sell the proceeds in a foreign exchange adjustment center. Imports and Exports All trade, both direct and indirect, with South Africa is prohibited. The primary responsibility for formulating for- eign trade policies and ensuring the implementa- tion of regulations and policy measures rests with MOFERT, which also issues the licenses required for restricted imports and a large number of exports;5 following the reform in the exchange and trade sys- tem effected in early 1985, MOFERT no longer en- gages in direct foreign trade transactions and is no longer involved in the daily enterprise management of trading corporations. Foreign trade is conduc- 4Nonresidents include overseas Chinese and residents of for- eign countries and of the Hong Kong and Macao regions. Diplo- matic representatives are also included. 5MoFERT itself issues licenses for some restricted imports into Beijing; for the rest, it delegates its authority to its special com- mission offices at major ports and to its regional counterparts— Commissions on Foreign Economic Relations and Trade (COFERT). ted by foreign trade corporations (FTCs) and other entities licensed by MOFERT to conduct foreign trade. In early 1988, control over FTCs was decentralized when local branches of most of these corporations were made independent entities accountable to lo- cal government authorities and responsible for their own profits and losses under the contract responsi- bility system. Application of the agency system, under which companies conduct foreign trade as agents on a commission basis, was also expanded; a larger number of domestic enterprises were given the authority to export their products directly or to import needed materials directly. There are 14 es- sential products, which continue to be imported by state-designated foreign trade corporations. All enterprises, other than registered foreign trade corporations, need approval from the local foreign trade bureau in accordance with the authori- zation of MOFERT and a license from the local bureau for industry and commerce to engage in foreign trade. All foreign exchange earnings from exports must be repatriated and, except those of FFEs, they must be surrendered to the state through the BOC or another specialized bank —unless specific excep- tion is granted by the SAEC—and may not be used directly to offset import payments. Part of the proceeds of exports (including foreign exchange earned in compensation trade) may be held as foreign exchange retention quotas6 in an account at the SAEC or its sub-bureaus. For general products, enterprises surrender 20 percent of for- eign exchange earnings to the state at the official rate. Of the remaining 80 percent valued at rates established in foreign exchange adjustment centers (FETCs), the supplying enterprise keeps retention quotas equivalent to 10 percent of the foreign ex- change earnings, 10 percent accrues to local govern- ment, and the foreign trade corporation retains the remaining 60 percent (exporters of products may retain 40 percent of their foreign exchange quotas). For mechanical and electrical products, exchange quotas are shared by the supplying enterprise (10 percent) and the foreign trade corporation (90 percent). The state may, however, purchase 20 percentage points of the retention from foreign trade corporations and the 10 percentage points from the supplying enterprise at the prevailing FETC rate. Foreign-funded enterprises operating in special economic zones (SEZs) and their joint ven- tures can still retain 100 percent of their export earn- ings in foreign currency accounts in resident banks; 6A retention quota constitutes a right to purchase foreign exchange in the fu tu re for renminbi at the prevailing official exchange rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 105 their foreign exchange position must remain in bal- ance. Retained foreign exchange and quotas can be sold at the FETCs for renminbi or used to purchase foreign exchange to finance imports. Foreign- funded enterprises retain all of their foreign ex- change earnings. Retention quotas can be traded in the foreign exchange centers or used for acquiring foreign exchange to purchase approved imports. The BOC and other specialized banks provide for- eign exchange for imports on the basis of a general MOFERT authorization to import licenses where re- quired and approval by the SAEC. Residents may not pay for imports with local currency. The number of trading companies and other enter- prises engaged in foreign trade expanded rapidly in 1988. Many of the new firms lacked the necessary expertise to engage in foreign trade, and in Feb- ruary 1989, the State Council established guidelines for the rationalization of foreign trade companies. Trade in certain products was to be limited to government-designated trade corporations; provin- cial and local government regulation of local FTCs was to be improved; and companies with poor operating results or engaged in disorderly operations were to be closed or merged with other trading companies. As a result of the rationalization, the number of FTCs was reduced from 5,000 to about 4,000 by the end of 1991. An additional 431 production enterprises have been granted direct trading rights. Imports consist of those included in the annual import plan and those outside the plan. The foreign trade plan is drawn up by MOFERT in conjunction with the SPC. The former sends directives on the preparation of the plan to all foreign trade corpora- tions and to the foreign trade bureaus in the provinces, municipalities, and autonomous re- gions, which, in turn, meet with other interested entities and prepare lists of needed imports and goods available for exportation. The plans prepared at the local level are coordinated and balanced by MOFERT and the SPC at national foreign trade plan- ning conferences. The State Council grants final approval to the foreign trade plan. Goods that can be produced domestically or for which adequate domestic substitutes are available are not included in the import plan. Priority is given in the import plan to goods that cannot be produced domestically in adequate quantities and those that are urgently needed by the state, especially for key projects. In the case of goods that are not produced in adequate quantities but for which a strong de- mand exists in the foreign market, a portion of pro- duction is set aside for exportation. Imports into China are also classified into two other categories —restricted imports and unre- stricted imports.7 A number of restricted imports overlap with those included in the annual import plan.8 Import licensing serves to limit, and in some cases, prohibit imports of restricted goods that are included in the annual plan. Imports of seven as- sembly lines on the restricted list (for television sets, household refrigerators, household washing ma- chines, radiocassette recorders, room air condi- tioners, motorcycles, and light motor vehicles) are restricted through the licensing system; imports of these lines require approval from the State Eco- nomic Commission, which currently does not grant approval. Apart from imports that are restricted through the licensing system, a few types of imports, such as all secondhand garments, are explicitly banned. Im- ports of poisons, narcotic drugs, diseased animals, and plants are prohibited, as are exports of valuable cultural relics and rare books, rare animals, seeds and plants, and precious metals and artifacts made from these metals. In addition, the importation and exportation of weapons, ammunition and explo- sives, radio receivers and transmitters, Chinese cur- rency, manuscripts, printed and recorded mate- rials, and films that are deemed to be detrimental to Chinese political, economic, cultural, and moral in- terests are prohibited. All imports and exports re- quire prior inspection before release by customs at the port of entry or exit. Exports of specified ma- chine tools require a license from the State Admin- istration for the Inspection of Import and Export Commodities, as a means of quality control. The customs regulations in force are the Customs Law of the People's Republic of China and the Reg- ulations on Import and Export Tariff of the People's Republic of China. The tariff rates for imports fall into two categories: general and preferential. The former apply to imports originating in the countries with which China has not concluded trade treaties or agreements with reciprocal favorable tariff clauses; the latter apply to imports originating in the countries with which China has concluded trade treaties or agreements with reciprocal favorable tar- iff clauses therein. The duties are calculated on the basis of the c . i . f. value of imported goods. Imports into Tibet through border trade with the neighboring countries are subject to a separate sys- tem of customs duties established by the People's Government of the Tibet Autonomous Region. The 7At the end of 1991, 53 goods were on the restricted list, including 34 kinds of assembly lines counted as 1 item. 8In principle, the restricted list can change on a monthly basis, and the coverage of the import plan also changes. Therefore, the degree of overlap changes over time. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 106 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA ta r i f f, however, applies only to goods imported di- rectly for use in Tibet. It does not apply to imports from other provinces, municipalities, and autono- mous regions through Tibet, or to imports through Tibet by mail or brought in as part of the luggage carried by travelers; such imports are subject to the regular Chinese ta r i f f. In addition to customs duties, a consolidated in- dustrial and commercial tax (a turnover tax also applies to other commodities) is levied on imports in accordance with the list contained in the Draft Regulations of the Consolidated Industrial and Commercial Tax of the People's Republic of China. Raw materials imported for fur ther processing are exempted from both customs duties and commer- cial taxes, provided that the products are exported within a specified period. Most imports and exports by joint ventures are exempt from customs duties. Special economic zones have been set up in Shan- tou, Shenzhen, Ziamen, and Zhuhai. Economic and technological development areas have been es- tablished in 14 designated coastal cities. Foreigners, overseas Chinese, and Chinese from the Hong Kong and Macao regions are permitted to invest in and open factories in these zones and areas. Raw mate- rials, equipment, and machinery or parts and com- ponents thereof, means of transportation, and other means of production imported by and intended to be used in the production of the enterprises in the zones are exempted from import duties and the consolidated industrial and commercial tax. A number of restrictions are imposed on exports. Certain products (primarily raw materials and food products) are subject to export licensing. Since May 1990, 189 items have been subject to export- licensing requirements. Exports of some products are prohibited. In December 1988, the number of items whose exportation is banned was raised from 4 to 10. In addition, exports of 58 products are sub- ject to duties. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Enterprises must sell their foreign exchange earn- ings from invisible transactions to the BOC and other authorized banks, except for enterprises with foreign investment and some foreign trade sectors designated as experimental areas for trade reforms. Foreign exchange remitted from abroad or from the Hong Kong and Macao regions to Chinese residents may be retained and used to open a savings account at an authorized bank or sold for renminbi at FETC rates. Similarly, foreign exchange owned by immi- grants or returning Chinese before becoming resi- dents may be retained. All foreign exchange earned by Chinese residents when working abroad, or in the Hong Kong or Macao regions, or earned from publication fees, copyright fees, awards, subsidies, honoraria, or other premiums must be repatriated and may not be deposited abroad; but individuals may retain part of such earnings according to prevailing regulations. Foreign staff members and employees of foreign joint ventures, as well as those from the Hong Kong and Macao regions,9 may remit their salaries and other income earned in China, after payment of taxes and deduction of their living expenses in China and approval by the relevant local au- thorities. Profits of joint ventures may be remitted after taxation, in accordance with foreign exchange regulations; such remittances should be paid through the foreign exchange account of the joint venture. Since June 1991, remitted profits are no longer subject to an additional tax of 10 percent. If a Chinese resident wishes to spend money on travel abroad, or remit money abroad, he must ap- ply to the local SAEC bureau for approval. All trans- actions, except for those of an official nature, are carried out through FETCs. Such factors as the indi- vidual's normal income need not be examined to determine if approval is to be granted for remit- tances. In cases of serious illness, death, or injury affecting a Chinese resident's parents, spouse, or children outside China, he/she may apply for for- eign exchange up to a specified limit on presenta- tion of documentary verification. If permission is granted to travel abroad, a Chinese resident is nor- mally allowed to take a reasonable amount of his/her own foreign exchange to cover expenses for trans- port and subsistence. There is no tax on travel. A Chinese resident who retires and emigrates is nor- mally permitted to receive his/her pension abroad, but transfers of proceeds from the sale of his/her assets in China are limited. Foreign exchange remitted or brought in by non- residents may be converted into foreign exchange certificates (FECs) denominated in renminbi. FECs can be used by nonresidents in hotels, restaurants, and shops serving nonresidents for purchasing air- line tickets and train or ship fares to Hong Kong and Macao and for international telecommunications and parcel post charges. Special regulations apply in Guangdong province. Persons entering China must declare their holdings of foreign currency and may take out of China any unused foreign currency on presentation of the import declaration form is- sued by customs. FECs may be imported, but their including those employed by enterprises with overseas and foreign Chinese capital. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 107 exportation is subject to the provision of documen- tation showing that they have been acquired legit- imately. Chinese residents must show their authori- zation to export foreign currency at the border. Foreign organizations resident in China are not al- lowed to reconvert FECs into foreign currency. Non- residents and resident foreigners in China are per- mitted to reconvert only up to 50 percent of original purchases of FECs when they leave China upon presentation of documented FEC purchases. Income from royalties, dividends, interest, and rentals earned by foreign businesses without estab- lishments in China is subject to a 20 percent with- holding tax; a preferential rate of 10 percent is ap- plied to foreign and overseas Chinese partners in joint ventures set up in the special economic zones and the economic and technological development areas in the old urban areas of the 14 coastal cities. Joint ventures are required to be insured with Chinese insurance companies. Capital Foreign borrowing is classified either as "plan" or "nonplan" borrowing.10 Plan borrowing includes (1) borrowing by the Central Government (through the PBC, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, and Forestry, and MOFERT and enterprises under the control of MOFERT) from international organizations and bilat- eral sources; (2) official borrowing including those by CITIC and international trust and investment companies (ITICs) (mostly in the form of bond is- sues and bond borrowing abroad) to finance plan projects; (3) borrowing by the BOC from foreign commercial banks to finance plan projects; (4) borrowing by provincial financial institutions (ei- ther directly or through the BOC) for large projects included in provincial governments' annual plans; and (5) borrowing by the BOC and other financial institutions. Nonplan borrowing includes (1) borrowing by the BOC for purposes other than projects included in the annual plan (this includes interbank loans and foreign exchange deposits held in BOC headquarters and abroad); (2) foreign ex- change deposit taking by other financial institu- 10The SAEC is the sole agency for monitoring and controlling China's external borrowing. It permits the BOC and other finan- cial and nonfinancial institutions responsible for undertaking commercial borrowing to borrow up to specified limits without prior approval. All bond issues, however, are subject to prior approval by the SAEC. In August 1987, comprehensive regula- tions were issued requiring all foreign borrowing to be registered with the SAEC. Borrowers who do not comply will not be permit- ted to transfer foreign exchange abroad to meet their debt- service obligations and will be subject to other penalties. tions; (3) short-term trade credits; (4) borrowing by joint-venture companies and 100 percent foreign- owned companies; (5) all borrowing at the provin- cial level to finance small projects; (6) lease financ- ing; and (7) borrowing from offshore Chinese enter- prises (mainly in Hong Kong). The plan of external borrowing for a specified fu tu re period is approved by the SPC. Within these limits, the SPC coordinates foreign borrowing for projects included in the annual and five-year plans. Under this procedure, the project-executing agen- cies (the Ministry of Finance, MOFERT, foreign trade corporations, and provincial governments) propose projects to the SPC. Proposals indicate the total amount of foreign exchange needed, how much of it will be earned and how much will be borrowed from abroad, and the kinds of imports for which loans are intended. The SPC reviews these plans and, in co- operation with the SAEC, the Ministry of Finance, and MOFERT, recommends to the State Council the overall number of projects and their associated fi- nancing. Loans for vital projects or projects that have a rapid rate of return are given priority approval. Within these guidelines, loans from international financial institutions and foreign governments re- quire the clearance of the SPC and the approval of the State Council. Loans from international de- velopment agencies are generally the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance or the China Investment Bank (an organization under the direction of the Ministry); intergovernmental loans are the respon- sibility of MOFERT, and loans from international fi- nancial institutions are the responsibility of the SAEC. Local governments and enterprises usually borrow through the BOC (or with its guarantee) or through specialized agencies such as ITICs rather than borrowing directly abroad themselves. The SPC sets an annual limit on such borrowing. Resi- dent organizations may not issue securities for for- eign exchange. According to regulations issued in February 1989, all commercial borrowing abroad (including bond issues) requires prior approval from the SAEC. Commercial borrowing can be channeled through one of several domestic entities —the Bank of China, the specialized banks, the China International Trust and Investment Corporation, and other regional ITICs—which are allocated borrowing quotas under the annual plan. The short-term external debt of each institution is to be used only for working capi- tal purposes. All foreign direct investment projects are in prin- ciple subject to the approval of MOFERT. However, a number of provincial and local authorities have been ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 108 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA granted the authority to approve foreign direct in- vestment projects up to specified amounts. The pol- icy with respect to foreign capital is designed both to make up the insufficiency of domestic capital and to facilitate the introduction of modern technology and management. Joint-venture enterprises and 100 percent for- eign-owned companies are required to balance their foreign exchange receipts and payments, and for- eign borrowing must be reported to the SAEC.11 Most foreign exchange earned by joint ventures and other enterprises involving nonresident capital must be deposited with the BOC or an authorized bank; outward transfers of capital generally require SAEC approval. Enterprises involved in the exploi- tation of offshore petroleum reserves may also hold foreign exchange abroad or in the Hong Kong or Macao regions. When a joint venture is wound up, the net claims belonging to the foreign investor may be remitted with SAEC approval through the for- eign exchange account of the joint venture. Alter- natively, the foreign investor may apply for repay- ment of his paid-in capital. Profits of joint ventures, with the exception of firms in special economic zones and the 14 coastal cities and those exploiting petroleum, natural gas, and other specified resources,12 are subject to tax at 33 percent (30 percent basic rate plus a 10 percent surcharge on the assessed tax). A joint venture scheduled to operate for ten years or more may be exempted f rom income tax in the first one or two profit-making years and be allowed reductions of 50 percent for the following three years. Joint ven- tures in low-profit operations, such as farming and forestry, or located in areas considered to be eco- nomically underdeveloped may, upon the approval of the Ministry of Finance, be allowed a fur ther 15- 30 percent reduction in income tax for another ten years. A participant in a joint venture that reinvests its share of profit in China for a period of not less than five years may obtain a refund of 40 percent of the tax paid on the reinvested profit. Certain joint ventures established before the passing of tax reg- ulations in August 1980 are subject to taxes at dif- ferent rates. Foreign companies, enterprises, and other eco- nomic organizations that have establishments in China engaged in independent business opera- tions, cooperative production, or joint business op- erations with Chinese enterprises are subject to tax 11 To help individual enterprises balance their foreign receipts and payments, enterprises with a surplus of foreign exchange may sell it to enterprises with a deficit in the foreign exchange ad ju s tment centers. 12The special tax rate for these firms is 15 percent. on their net income. There are five levels of tax rates, ranging from 20 percent for the first Y 250,000 of profits to 40 percent for profits exceeding Y 1 million. In addition, a local income tax of 10 percent of the same taxable income is levied. Income from interest on deposits of foreign banks in China's state banks and on loans from foreign banks to China's state banks with a normal interest rate is subject to a 20 percent withholding tax. Foreign state banks lo- cated in countries where income from interest on the deposits and loans of China's state banks is exempted from income tax are correspondingly ex- empted from this Chinese tax. For interest income or leasing fees (less than the value of equipment) earned under credit agreements by foreign busi- nesses without establishments in China, under trade agreements, and under leasing agreements signed by them with Chinese companies and enter- prises during the period 1983-85, income tax is to be levied at the reduced rate of 10 percent (half the normal rate) during the validity of the aforesaid agreements; interest earnings from export credits are entitled to income tax exemption. For fees col- lected by foreign businessmen for the use of special technology provided by them in such fields as agri- culture, animal husbandry, research, energy, com- munications, transport, environmental protection, and the development of important techniques, in- come tax may, with the approval of the tax au- thorities, be levied at the reduced rate of 10 percent, or be waived if the technology is advanced and is provided on favorable terms. Foreign investment by Chinese enterprises is subject to approval; profits earned thereby must be sold to the BOC, except for a portion that may be retained locally as a working balance. Chinese dip- lomatic and commercial organizations abroad, as well as businesses abroad and in the Hong Kong and Macao regions, are required to draw up annual foreign exchange plans. Gold The PBC buys and sells gold and has central con- trol over dealings in gold and silver. Sales of gold and silver are restricted to pharmaceutical, indus- trial, and other approved uses. Private persons may hold gold but may not trade or deal in it. The amount of gold, gold products, silver, and silver products that may be imported is unlimited but must be declared on entry. When exporting gold or silver, the exporter must present an import docu- ment from customs or a PBC export permit. Non- residents may buy gold and silver and gold and silver products at special stores but must present the invoice when exporting them. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 109 Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement April 9. The management of the exchange rate was altered to a procedure under which the rate would be adjusted frequently in light of certain in- dicators including development in international ex- change markets, relative price performance, and trends in export production costs. September 11. New regulations governing the use of official foreign exchange were introduced. Prior- ity for using foreign exchange would be given to imports of agricultural inputs such as chemical fer- tilizers, pesticides, and agricultural commodities such as grain and sugar; interest and amortization payments and remittances; and imports of key con- struction projects and technology. The next priority level would include raw materials used for indus- trial production, certain spare parts, educational materials, and medicines. Items for which the use of official foreign exchange is strictly prohibited would include cigarettes, wine, clothes, shoes, small household appliances, soft drinks, and film. October 1. Specialized banks other than the BOC and foreign banks that are engaged in foreign ex- change business in Zhejiang and Jiangsu began to sell foreign exchange from export and service re- ceipts directly to local branches of the PBC; these banks were allowed to purchase foreign exchange directly from the PBC to finance imports. The State Administration for Exchange Control would man- age this part of the exchange reserves under the authorization of the PBC. Administration of Control August 1. Wool was added to the list of products that must be handled by designated foreign trade corporations (the list now contains 14 product items). August 29. MOFERT promulgated the "Interim Regulations on Foreign Trade Agency System/7 which set for th the rights and obligations of the parties to an agency agreement. Prescription of Currency January-December. All bilateral payments agree- ments were transformed into trade agreements to be settled on normal commercial terms in convert- ible currencies, with the exception of those with Bangladesh, Cuba, and the Democratic People's Re- public of Korea. Imports and Exports January 1. All export subsidies were eliminated. January 1. New rules to govern foreign exchange retention on a uniform basis were introduced, un- der which the proportion of foreign exchange quotas an enterprise could retain would no longer depend on its location. Instead, for general goods, enterprises would surrender 20 percent of foreign exchange earnings to the PBC at the official rate. Of the remaining 80 percent, which would be valued at rates established in foreign exchange ad jus tment centers (FETCs), the supplying enterprise would keep retention quotas equivalent to 10 percent of the foreign exchange earnings, 10 percent would accrue to local government, and the foreign trade corpora- tion would retain the remaining 60 percent (export- ers of goods may retain 40 percent of their foreign exchange quotas). For mechanical and electrical products, exchange quotas would be shared by the supplying enterprise at a rate of 10 percent and the foreign trade corporation, at 90 percent. The PBC may, however, purchase 20 percent of the retention from foreign trade corporations and 10 percent from the supplying enterprise at the prevailing FETC rate. Foreign-funded enterprises operating in SEZs and their joint ventures can still retain 100 percent of their export earnings in foreign currency ac- counts in resident banks; their foreign exchange position, however, must remain in balance. Re- tained foreign exchange and quotas can be sold at the FETCs for renminbi or used to purchase foreign exchange to finance imports. January 10. Import duties were lowered on for ty products (including chemical fertilizers, farming chemicals, and some raw materials used in agri- cultural and industrial production, constituting 16.5 percent of total imports in the first 11 months of 1990). Import duties were raised f rom 9-50 percent (minimum) to 12-70 percent (maximum) on some items (mainly telecommunications equipment). March 15. It was announced that import regula- tory duties would be abolished by April 1, 1992. It was also announced that the coverage of import licensing would be cut by two thirds by the end of 1994, with licenses on 16 product categories to be removed in 1992. May 1. The General Customs Administration promu lga ted the Rules on the Appraisal of Im- por ted Goods by the Customs. The system of valuation of import and export goods was thus completed with the issue of these rules, which would govern the implementation of policies on t a r i f f s; protection of the interests of honest traders; prevention of underdeclaration of prices, price f r aud, and du ty evasion; and harmonization of international s tanda rds. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 110 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA June 15. Import ta r i f fs were lowered on three products (sulphur, cellulose acetates, and gas in- sulator switch gear), and import tariffs on two prod- ucts (acetate fiber and welding tubes and pipes) were raised. August 15. The export duties on a number of prod- ucts, including lead ore, phosphorus, fer- romanganese, aluminum, and zinc ore, were re- duced to 20-30 percent from 50 percent. November 1. A Harmonized Commodity Descrip- tion and Coding System, to be effective January 1, 1992, was promulgated. This system, which would replace existing import and export regulations, would be applied to customs tariffs and compilation of trade statistics. The average level of duty rates transposed in the new tariff on the whole is intended to be equiv- alent to that under the old tariff structure. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles June 1. Profit remittances were exempted f rom the 10 percent tax. December 1. Chinese citizens and permanent for- eign residents were permitted to sell their foreign exchange remitted from abroad, foreign currency deposits in Chinese banks, or foreign currency bank notes to designated banks at the exchange rates prevailing at the FETCs, upon presentation of iden- tity papers. Chinese residents were permitted to purchase foreign exchange with domestic currency at FETC rates in order to travel, live, or study abroad, af ter showing passports, visas, and sup- porting documents. Prospective emigrants were re- quired to produce official documents confirming their status and were subject to an overall ceiling; retired people who want to settle abroad were al- lowed to buy foreign exchange equivalent to the value of their pension funds. Emigrants who need foreign exchange to buy tickets for international transport were permitted to purchase the amount needed. Chinese residents were also allowed to ob- tain foreign exchange to pay membership dues to international academic bodies or to pay application fees for foreign language tests. Overseas Chinese, people from Hong Kong, Macao, and Taiwan Province of China, foreign experts and students in China, tourists, and foreigners visiting China or working in foreign representative offices in China were required to continue to trade in exchange for- eign currency for FETCs. Capital April 9. The National People's Congress adopted the Law Concerning the Income Tax of Foreign- Funded Enterprises and Foreign Enterprises and eliminated a 10 percent tax imposed on distributed profits remitted abroad by the foreign investors in foreign-funded enterprises. This law unified the tax rates for Chinese foreign equity joint ventures, Chi- nese foreign contractual joint ventures, and wholly owned foreign enterprises. It would also provide for more tax benefits in the priority industrial sectors, with effect from July 1, 1991. September 26. "Regulations on Borrowing Over- seas of Commercial Loans by Resident Institutions" and "Rules on Foreign Exchange Guarantee by Resi- dent Institutions in China" were issued. Changes During 1992 Imports and Exports January 1. Import ta r i f fs on 225 items, including raw and semifinished materials, agricultural in- puts, machinery, equipment, and spare parts, were reduced. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Colombia is the Colombian Peso. All foreign exchange operations take place at a market-determined exchange rate, with the Banco de la Republica setting a reference exchange rate.1 The Banco de la Republica sets the reference rate, taking into account the movements of prices in Co- lombia relative to those in its major trading part- ners, the level of Colombia's foreign exchange re- serves, and Colombia's overall balance of payments performance. The Banco de la Republica conducts foreign exchange transactions with the Central Gov- ernment, decentralized public agencies, and finan- cial intermediaries, but since June 1991, no longer conducts foreign exchange transactions directly with the private sector. The only authorized foreign exchange intermediaries are commercial banks and financial corporations, which are required to hold a net foreign exchange position equivalent to at least 30 percent of their foreign exchange liabilities. There are no regulations governing the net foreign exchange positions of exchange houses; they may sell their excess foreign assets to a financial inter- mediary. Foreign exchange proceeds earned by the private sector must be surrendered to financial in- termediaries for exchange certificates issued by the Banco de la Republica, which may be sold in the foreign exchange market.2 Foreign exchange pro- ceeds earned by the public sector may be surren- dered to financial intermediaries or to the Banco de la Republica for foreign exchange certificates. The Banco de la Republica stands ready to redeem ex- change certificates before their maturity date at its reference exchange rate at a maximum discount rate of 12.5 percent. Exchange proceeds from tourism, personal services rendered abroad, and donations of less than $20,000 are not required to be surren- dered through the foreign exchange market but may be sold to an exchange house or to financial intermediaries. aThe Banco de la Republica defines the market-determined exchange rate as the simple average of the rates for exchange transactions effected by the financial intermediaries, excluding those for teller and interbank transactions (Resolution 15 of November 27, 1991). 2Exchange certificates are issued to the bearer for a term of 12 months; they are freely negotiable and transferable by endorse- ment, and may be used to effect transfers abroad or may be redeemed in domestic currency with a maximum discount of 12.5 percent. Payments abroad can be made through exchange certificates (which are converted into foreign ex- change by the Banco de la Republica on demand) or through the purchase of foreign exchange from au- thorized financial institutions. On December 31, 1991, the reference rate of the Banco de la Republica was Col$707 per US$1, and the free market exchange rate was Col$632 per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies3 are also officially quoted, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. Other effective exchange rates result from (1) a 7.4 percent tax on coffee export proceeds; (2) tax credit certificates (certificados de reembolso tributario or CERTs) granted at three d ifferent percentage rates; (3) the imposition of a remittance tax at two different rates on transfers of earnings from foreign capital and repatriation of this capital; and (4) a 3 percent tax on foreign exchange receipts from personal services and on other transfers. The Government purchases foreign exchange for all public debt payments and other expenditures included in the national budget at the average mar- ket rate. The Banco de la Republica stands ready to sell foreign exchange warrants (titulos canjeables por cer- tificados de cambio) to public enterprises in the elec- tric sector and the National Federation of Coffee Growers (Federacion National de Cafeteros) in ac- cordance with the terms of Resolution 16/1991 of the Banco de la Republica. These warrants, expressed in U.S. dollars, have a maturity of 12 months, and, in some cases, may also be exchanged for exchange certificates. Within their period of validity, warrants may also be sold to the Banco de la Republica for pesos at the certificate market buying rate on the date of repurchase. Warrants bear interest at the rate equal to that of the external loan, but never higher than the average 30-day rate on primary cer- tificates of deposit at the close of operations in the New York market for the day before the certificate is issued less 1 percentage point if held by public sector recipients of external loans. Warrants held longer than 12 months cannot be converted into exchange certificates but may be resold to the 3 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas (selling rate only), Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. Ill ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 112 COLOMBIA Banco de la Republica at the certificate market rate on the last day of the twelfth month. All foreign exchange debts registered in the Banco de la Republica4 are permitted to buy forward cover against exchange risks. All fu tu re contracts of foreign exchange must be registered in the Banco de la Republica, and exchange rate guarantees are al- lowed to be provided only for the U.S. dollar against most of the other convertible currencies. Administration of Control All imports require registration at the Colombian Institute of Foreign Trade (!NCOMEX). Administra- tive control is exercised by authorized foreign ex- change intermediaries, and the Exchange Superin- tendency, an autonomous agency reporting to the Ministry of Finance, enforces ex post control and supervision over exchange transactions and is re- sponsible for applying penalties for any violation of the exchange regulations. The Foreign Trade Council (FTC), which includes representatives of the Ministry of Finance, IN- COMEX, other public entities, and two officers of the FTC, determines overall import and export policy. INCOMEX, through its Import Board, controls those imports that are subject to prior licensing, and ad- ministers Plan Vallejo, which is a special import- export arrangement concerning a rebate of taxes paid on imported inputs used in the production of exported goods. INCOMEX, together with the Com- mittee on Commercial Practices, administers anti- dumping cases. The National Council for Economic and Social Policy issues directives to the Banco de la Republica and the National Planning Department concerning direct investment in Colombia. The Banco de la Republica keeps an accounting record both of foreign investment in Colombia and of debts abroad and controls the movement of foreign capital as well as the transfer of profits, dividends, com- missions, and royalties for trademarks, patents, etc. Prescription of Currency The Banco de la Republica establishes the list of currencies that it accepts for exchange surrender and provides for import payments. Payments and receipts are normally effected in U.S. dollars, but importers and exporters are also free to use quoted currencies (see footnote 3). Settlements for com- mercial transactions with countries with which Co- 4The Exchange Office was abolished effective October 1, 1991, and its functions pertaining to the registration of foreign invest- ment in the country, to investment abroad by Colombian cit- izens, and to external borrowing were transferred to the Banco de la Republica. lombia has reciprocal credit agreements must be made through special accounts in accordance with the provisions of such agreements. Settlements be- tween Colombia and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made through accounts main- tained within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). There are also reciprocal credit agreements with China, Costa Rica, Cuba, the Do- minican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Hon- duras, Hungary, Nicaragua, Spain, the former U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. Nonresident Accounts Residents of Colombia may maintain foreign ex- change accounts abroad, but they may only de- posit exchange proceeds f rom tourism, personal services rendered abroad, or donations of up to $20,000 in these accounts. Credit institutions are authorized to receive short-term deposits in fo r- eign currency f rom na tu ral or jur id ical persons not resident in Colombia; these deposits are f ree ly available to the holders, but any fore ign currency deposits that they may wish to convert into Co- lombian currency must be sold to the Banco de la Republica. Banks must report transactions through these accounts to the Banco de la Re- publica and the Exchange Off ice. Imports and Import Payments Importers must obtain foreign exchange from a financial intermediary with exchange certificates purchased in the market, or may purchase foreign exchange directly from a financial intermediary. Foreign enterprises in the oil, coal, and natural gas sectors and firms in the free trade areas are not permitted to purchase foreign exchange from finan- cial intermediaries. Payments must be made within three months of the due date of payment indicated in the import registration form, except for goods for immediate use (for example, raw materials, inputs, and consumer goods), payment for which may be made in six months. Imports are subject to one of the following two regimes: (1) freely importable goods, requiring registration only with INCOMEX;S and (2) goods sub- ject to prior approval and requiring an import li- cense. In the free-import regime, there is a global free list applicable to all countries, a national list 5 Imports or shipments with an f .o .b. value of less than $500 are classified as "minor imports" and do not have to be registered with INCOMEX. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA 113 applicable only to member countries of the LAIA, and special lists applicable only to member coun- tries of the LAIA and to members of the Andean Pact. Imports subject to a prior licensing require- ment consist of medicines and chemical products (30 tariff positions) and weapons and munitions (39 tariff positions). A distinction is drawn between reimbursable and nonreimbursable imports. Reimbursable imports involve purchase of official foreign exchange from a financial intermediary, including imports of ma- chinery and equipment financed by international credit institutions. Nonreimbursable imports con- sist mainly of aid imports under grants and com- modities constituting part of a direct investment. Import registrations are granted automatically. However, import registrations by some public sector agencies are screened by INCOMEX to determine whether local substitutes are available. Both import licenses and registrations are valid for six months, except those for agricultural and livestock products, which are valid for 3 months, and those for capital goods, which are valid for 12 months. Import li- censes can be extended for only one period. All imports other than those classified as minor imports or shipments with an f .o .b. value of less than $500 are subject to registration with INCOMEX. Urgently needed spare parts not exceeding $10,000 are not subject to prior registration. The charge for import registration is Col$8,500. Imports of crude oil and petroleum products are effected by Empresa Co- lombiana de Petroleo (ESCOPETROL). Import duties are calculated at the average selling rate for exchange certificates during the previous month, as determined by the Ministry of Finance. In addition to customs duties, there is a surtax of 5 percent. Exempted from this tax are temporary imports; imports by public entities; goods of LAIA origin; imports under the Vallejo Plan; diplomatic, consular, and similar imports; gifts; and imports destined for the International Commerce Fair of Bogota, for the free port of San Andres y Providen- cia, or effected through the Port of Leticia. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be effected through the exchange market. Foreign exchange for payments of less than $20,000 may also be obtained through exchange houses or commercial financing companies. Foreign exchange to finance private ex- penditures abroad and to pay for personal services provided by nonresidents in amounts of less than $20,000 may be obtained from an exchange house. Foreign investors may transfer abroad up to 100 percent of profits. A remittance tax of 12 percent is applicable to transfers of profits and dividends from new foreign investment and from foreign capi- tal investment funds; the tax is 19 percent for trans- fers of profits and dividends from existing foreign investment. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required. The periods for surrendering export proceeds are normally as fol- lows: (1) for green coffee, within 90 days of the date of registration of exports (180 days for instant cof- fee); and (2) for other goods, 3 months af ter the payment date as specified by the exporter. All exchange proceeds from exports must be sur- rendered to authorized financial intermediaries or for exchange certificates that can be sold in the free market, with the exception of export proceeds of ECOPETROL, Federacion Nacional de Cafeteros, and exports of minerals associated with state enter- prises; these institutions are permitted to retain part of their export proceeds abroad for the settlement of their import costs. In addition, foreign enterprises in the oil, coal, and natural gas sectors and firms in free trade areas are not required to surrender their foreign exchange. On surrendering their export proceeds in the foreign exchange market, exporters of products other than coffee, petroleum and petro- leum products, and exports effec ted through spe- cial arrangements (such as barter and compensa- tion) may receive tax credit certificates in an amount corresponding to a specified percentage of the f .o .b. value surrendered, converted at the average selling rate for the exchange certificates during the pre- vious month as determined by the Ministry of Fi- nance. Three rates —5 percent, 9 percent, and 10 percent —are applied, depending on the product and the country of destination; the rates are calcu- lated on domestic value added. These certificates, which are freely negotiable and are quoted on the stock exchange, are accepted at par by tax offices for the payment of income tax, customs duties, and certain other taxes. Exports of coffee are subject to the following reg- ulations: (1) a minimum surrender price (reintegro) is fixed on the basis of international market prices; (2) exporters pay a coffee contribution (contribution cafetera), which is determined by the difference be- tween the export value of coffee surrendered and its estimated cost, taking into account the domestic buying price for export-type coffee (precio interno de sustentacion); (3) exporters pay a 7.4 percent tax on surrendered export proceeds, of which 2.7 percent is earmarked for the National Federation of Coffee Growers, 2.7 percent for the National Coffee Fund, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 114 COLOMBIA and the remainder provides revenue for the Trea- sury; (4) exporters must either surrender without payment (in the form of untreated coffee) a certain proportion of the volume of excelso coffee that they wish to export (retention cafetera) or pay the national Federation of Coffee Growers the peso equivalent if the national Coffee Committee (composed of the Ministers of Finance and Agriculture and the Man- aging Director of the Federation) so decides (as of the end of 1991, this provision was not in operation); and (5) the National Coffee Committee establishes a domestic buying price for export-type coffee, ex- pressed in pesos per carga of 125 kilograms. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered, except for proceeds from tourism, labor contracts performed abroad, and donations amounting to less than $20,000, for exchange certifi- cates, which can be sold on the exchange market. There is no restriction on the amount of foreign exchange travelers may bring into the country. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers are effected at the exchange certificate market rate. All foreign investments and foreign loans with maturities exceeding one year, direct lines of foreign credit obtained by nonbank residents,6 and the transfer of capital previously imported (except loans previously registered under Decree No. 2322 of Sep- tember 2, 1965) must be registered with the Banco de la Republica. Foreign direct investments in Co- lombia are governed by Law 9 of 1991 (January 17, 1991) and National Council for Economic and Social Planning (CONPES) Resolution 51 (October 22, 1991) and are in accordance with the provisions of Decisions Nos. 291 and 292 of the Cartagena Agree- ment, which govern foreign investments within the member countries of the Andean Pact. Foreign in- vestment is freely allowed up to 10 percent of ownership in any sector of the economy except in defense and waste disposal. Special regimes remain in effect in the financial, petroleum, and mining sectors. Foreign capital participation in the financial sector up to 100 percent is permitted under Law No. 45 of 1990. The purchase of 10 percent or more 6Loans by financial entities for the importation of goods also require registration; their repayment is authorized by the ex- change license covering the relevant import transaction. Such loans are subject to an interest rate ceiling of 2.5 percent over the New York prime rate or the London interbank offered rate (LIBOR). of the shares of a Colombian financial institution requires the prior approval of the Superintendent of Banks. CONPES can legislate special conditions af- fecting foreign investment in specific sectors of the economy so as to overrule the above-mentioned provisions (CONPES Resolution 51 of Octo- ber 1991). Member countries of the Andean Pact are treated as Colombian investors for purposes of fulfilling the Colombian ownership requirement, provided that profit and capital remittances remain within the country of origin and shares are not sold outside the area. Colombian investment abroad is granted auto- matically up to $200,000 by the National Planning Department. Investments over that amount require the approval of the National Planning Department. Registration of capital with the Banco de la Re- publica entitles the investor to export profits and to repatriate capital under specified conditions. Up to 100 percent of profits may be transferred abroad. Foreign investors may not repatriate their capital within one year of registration but are free to do so thereafter. Foreign loans contracted by private Colombian individuals or firms are generally subject to a mini- mum maturity of five years with two years of grace and an interest rate ceiling of 2.5 percent over the New York prime rate or LIBOR. Such loans are nor- mally permitted only for financing working capital or fixed investment. Special regulations govern the periods for which resident banks may provide im- port financing from foreign currency borrowed abroad. Foreign loans for government entities in excess of specified amounts require prior authoriza- tion by the Ministry of Finance and the National Planning Department. For loans to the Govern- ment, or guaranteed by the Government, the fol- lowing are also required: prior authorization from the National Council for Economic and Social Policy and from the Banco de la Republica; prior consulta- tion with the Interparliamentary Committee on Public Credit; and ex post approval from the Presi- dent of the Republic. Such loans are also subject to the executive decree that authorizes the initiation of negotiations. Foreign investments in the form of placement of shares in a fund established to make investments in the stock exchange and in debt papers issued by the financial sector are permitted with the approval of the National Planning Board. Foreign capital in- vested in these funds can be repatriated only one year af ter investment. Contracts involving royalties, commissions, trademarks or patents, and similar arrangements must be registered with the Exchange Office to en- able the beneficiary to make transfers abroad; they ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA 115 also require approval from the Royalties Committee before they can be registered. Colombian residents are authorized to maintain assets and earned income abroad, provided that assets were owned before September 1,1990 or that they have been acquired from exchange receipts that do not have to be surrendered. Gold Under Law 9 of January 17,1991, Colombian resi- dents are allowed to purchase, sell, hold, import, and export gold. However, for a period of two years, the Government would impose certain restrictions on these activities, including eligibility of the in- stitutions or persons allowed to export gold. The Banco de la Republica makes domestic sales of gold for industrial use directly at a price equiv- alent to the average quotation in the gold market in London during the previous day; this price is con- verted into pesos at the prevailing rate of exchange certificates on the date of sale. The assay and refining houses and the mining companies producing gold are under the supervi- sion of the Exchange Superintendency. In addition, the mining companies and traders must obtain a license from the Superintendency in order to carry on their operations. The Banco de la Republica issues from time to time commemorative gold coins, which are legal tender. Residents and nonresidents may freely buy such coins, but export licenses are not normally granted. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement January 9. The exchange rate, except for transac- tions relating to tourism, personal services ren- dered abroad, and donations of less than $20,000, would continue to be determined by the Banco de la Republica (Law 9). The exchange rate for personal services and for transfer transactions exceeding $20,000 would be allowed to be set by the market. The authorized financial intermediaries were re- quired to surrender every week their net foreign asset position to the Banco de la Republica at the official exchange rate. April 26. The Banco de la Republica began to charge a 5 percent commission on its purchases of U.S. dollars from residents of Colombia and a 3.8 percent commission on its purchases of U.S. dol- lars from financial intermediaries. (In June 1991, the commission for foreign exchange intermediaries was lowered to 1.5 percent as was the commission for Colombian residents.) June 24. All foreign exchange operations would be transacted at a market-determined exchange rate, with the Banco de la Republica setting a reference exchange rate. The Banco de la Republica would conduct foreign exchange transactions only with the Central Government, decentralized public agen- cies, and financial intermediaries and would not conduct foreign exchange transactions directly with the public. Commercial banks and financial corpor- ations would be the only authorized foreign ex- change intermediaries, and they were required to hold a net foreign exchange position of up to 20 per- cent of their capital (modified to at least 30 percent of their foreign exchange liabilities on October 9, 1991). Exchange houses may purchase exchange proceeds f rom tourism, personal services rendered abroad, and donations of up to $20,000. Resident and Nonresident Accounts June 24. Residents of Colombia were authorized to open foreign exchange accounts abroad, and were granted a six-month period to legalize foreign ex- change accounts held abroad through the payment of a 3 percent tax amnesty on the amount held abroad; after June 26, the rate of tax payment would be raised to 5 percent. Imports and Import Payments January 9. The advance deposit requirement for imports was abolished. June 24. Importers were required to obtain foreign exchange from a financial intermediary. September 1. The number of ta r i ff rates was re- duced f rom nine to four, with a maximum ra te of 15 percent (except for automobile and agr icu l tural imports for which import duties would range f rom 20 percent to 72 pe rcen t ). As a result, the average ta r i ff ra te decreased f rom 23.4 percent to 17.3 per- cent (and f u r t h er to 6.7 percent in September). The rate of import surcharge was decreased f rom 13 percent to 10 percent (and f u r t h er to 8 percent in Augus t ). With these reductions, the average effec t ive ra te of protection (including the import surcharge) decreased f rom about 65.2 percent to 26.2 percent. October 1. Exchange licenses were abolished. December 31. The rate of import surcharge was decreased to 5 percent. Payments for Invisibles January 9. The 80-day waiting period requirement for the redemption of exchange certificates for trans- fers and service payments was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 116 COLOMBIA January 28. The limit on profits foreign investors registered with the Banco de la Republica were al- lowed to transfer abroad was raised to 100 percent from 25 percent of the value of registered capital. October 22. Profits of up to 100 percent were per- mitted to be transferred abroad. Exports and Export Proceeds January 9. The pasilla y ripio tax and the ad valorem tax on coffee exports were abolished and replaced by a coffee contribution (contribucion cafetera). This contribution would be determined by the difference between the export value of coffee surrendered and its estimated cost, taking into account the domestic price for export-type coffee (precio interno de sustentacion). June 24. The surrender requirement was modi- fied, whereby all recipients of foreign exchange, including those in the public sector, would have the following three options at the time of their sur- render: (1) they may exchange their foreign ex- change for a 90-day maturity exchange certificate issued by the Banco de la Republica, and then con- vert it into pesos at the Banco de la Republica's reference rate prevailing at the maturity date (effec- tive October 29, the maturity period was changed to 360 days); (2) they may sell their exchange certifi- cates immediately to the Banco de la Republica at its reference rate at a 10 percent discount; and (3) they may sell foreign exchange for pesos at a market- determined rate. Proceeds from Invisibles January 9. Exchange receipts from tourism, labor contracts abroad, and donations of up to $20,000 were not required to be surrendered. May 31. A3 percent tax was imposed on foreign exchange receipts from personal services. Capital January 9. The regulations on foreign direct in- vestment were amended. New foreign investments would receive the same tax treatment as domestic investments, but the tax on profit and income remit- tances would continue to be levied. The 85 percent advance deposit requirement for all capital transfers abroad was abolished. Colombian residents were authorized to maintain assets and earned income abroad, provided that assets were owned before September 1, 1990 or had been acquired from ex- change receipts that did not have to be surrendered. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Comoros is the Comorian Franc, which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CF 1 per F 0.02. The current buying and selling rates for the French franc are CF 50 per F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies1 are also officially quoted on the basis of the fixed rate of the Comorian franc for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the respective currencies in terms of the French franc. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, the exchange control measures of the Comoros do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other coun- tries whose institute of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Forward cover against exchange rate risk is autho- rized by the Central Bank of the Comoros and is provided to traders by the commercial banks for up to three months. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank of the Comoros. The Ministry of Finance and Budget supervises borrowing and lending abroad, inward direct investment, and all outward invest- ments. Part of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to an autho- rized bank —the sole commercial bank —and to the Postal Administration. All exchange transactions re- lating to foreign countries must be effected through the authorized bank or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate-General of Economic A f fa i rs in the Min- istry of Economy and Trade. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Currencies quoted on the Paris official market: Austrian schil- lings, Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Djibouti francs, ECUs, Finnish markkaa, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Span- ish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and Prescription of Currency The Central Bank of the Comoros maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; set- tlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in Comorian francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France, in any of the cur- rencies of those countries, or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. All settlements with South Africa are prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports of South African origin are prohibited, and the importation of certain other goods is pro- hibited from all countries. The importation f rom any source of certain other commodities is subject to individual licensing. All import transactions re- lating to foreign countries must be domiciled with the authorized bank if the value is CF 500,000 or more. Payments for Invisibles All payments to South Africa are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely. Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Invisible pay- ments to other countries are subject to approval, which is granted on production of supporting docu- ments, in accordance with Article 3 of Instruction No. 2 of the Exchange Regulations. These regula- tions apply to allowances for education, family maintenance, and medical treatment, and remit- tances by foreign workers of savings f rom their earnings. For tourist travel, residents traveling to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries may take out the equivalent of CF 500,000 in bank notes and any amount in other means of payment. Residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries may take out in any means of payment up to the equivalent of CF 500,000 a person a trip. For business travel, the Central Bank of the Comoros may authorize a spe- cial allowance upon request of the authorized bank. 117 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 118 COMOROS Nonresident travelers may export the equivalent of CF 500,000 in bank notes and any means of pay- ment issued abroad in their name without provid- ing documentary justification. Other cases are au- thorized pursuant to the exchange regulations upon production of supporting documents. Repatriations of dividends and other earnings from nonresidents' direct investment are autho- rized and guaranteed under the Investment Code. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. With a few exceptions, exports to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are free of license. Most exports to other coun- tries require licenses. Proceeds from exports to for- eign countries must normally be collected, and the receipts repatriated within 30 days of the expiration of the commercial contract and sold immediately to the authorized bank. All export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with the authorized bank if the value is CF 500,000 or more. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and, if received in foreign currency, must be surrendered within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of domestic and foreign bank notes and coins. Capital All settlements between the Comoros and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between the Comoros and France (as defined above), Mo- naco, and the Operations Account countries are, in principle, free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control ap- proval, but capital receipts from such countries are normally permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable) are main- tained over borrowing abroad, inward direct invest- ment, and all outward investment; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to pay- ments or receipts. Gold Imports and exports of monetary gold require prior authorization. Imports and exports of articles containing gold are subject to declaration, but trans- fers of personal jewelry within the limit of 500 grams a person are exempted from such declaration. Changes During 1991 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the People's Republic of the Congo is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buying and sell- ing rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates for the curren- cies concerned in the Paris exchange market. Payments to France and its overseas departments and territories, Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries (see section on Administration of Control, below), as well as the purchase of these countries' bank notes and traveler's checks, are sub- ject to a commission of 0.75 percent, with a mini- mum charge of CFAF 75; exempt from this commis- sion are payments of the state, the Postal Administration, and the BEAC, salaries of Con- golese diplomats abroad, expenditures of official missions abroad, scholarships of persons studying or training abroad, and debt-service payments due from companies that have entered into an agree- ment with the Congo. Most payments to other for- eign countries and credits to foreign accounts in francs are subject to a commission of 1 percent, and foreign exchange purchased by the Diamond Pur- chase Office is subject to a commission of 0.50 per- cent, with a minimum of CFAF 100. A commission of 0.25 percent is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Payments to the following countries, although subject to declaration, are unrestricted: (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Oper- ations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Settlements and investment irThe CFA franc circulating in the Congo is issued by the Bank of Central African States (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, Gabon, and Equatorial Guinea. transactions with all foreign countries, however, are subject to control. Foreign countries are defined as all countries other than the Congo. The General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations in the Ministry of Finance and the Budget supervises borrowing and lending abroad. Ex- change control is administered by the Minister of Finance and the Budget, who has delegated his approval authority to the General Directorate. All exchange transactions must be effected through au- thorized banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Directorate in the Ministry of Commerce. With the exception of 13 products, the system of import li- censes has been replaced by a system of ex post declarations (Decree No. 88/414, May 28, 1988). Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since the Congo is an Operations Account coun- try, settlements with France (as defined above), Mo- naco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Set- tlements with all other countries are usually made in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on those applied in France. The crediting of BEAC bank notes to foreign accounts in francs is permitted when they have been mailed to the BEAC agency in Brazzaville by the foreign corre- spondent of an authorized bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports from all sources require a declaratior license. An indicative annual import program tinguishes five zones: (1) the countries of the ( tral African Customs and Economic U (UDEAC); (2) France; (3) other Operations Accc countries; (4) European Community (EC) coun other than France; and (5) all remaining counl Thirteen product items under this program renu, licenses, and others are subject to ex post dec; / tion. The quotas for non-EC countries may be 119 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 120 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO to import goods originating in any non-Operations Account country. All import transactions relating to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Licenses for imports from countries other than France (as defined above), Mo- naco, and the Operations Account countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank, and they require a visa from the Foreign Trade Directorate and the General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations. The approved import license entitles im- porters to purchase the necessary exchange, pro- vided that the shipping documents are submitted to an authorized bank. All imports must be insured with the state insur- ance company, Societe d'assurances et de reas- surances du Congo (SARC). To implement this measure, the Congolese Customs Service releases imports only after an insurance certificate issued by the SARC has been produced. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely, provided they have been declared and are made through an authorized inter- mediary; those to other foreign countries are sub- ject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to non- residents in the form of profits, dividends, and roy- alties are permitted with the authorization of the General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations. Residents traveling as tourists to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, the Opera- tions Account countries, or Zaire may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip (CFAF 87,500 for chil- dren under 10 years) or CFAF 10,000 if the duration of the trip is less than 24 hours, for any number of trips a year; they must surrender any foreign ex- change in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining after their return to the Congo. Business travelers receive a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a person a day, sub- ject to a maximum of CFAF 400,000 a trip; additional amounts may be authorized in appropriate cases. The use of credit cards abroad by residents is pro- hibited. There are special facilities for travelers to Kinshasa who request no foreign means of payment other than Zairian bank notes. Residents traveling to France (as defined above), Monaco, or an Opera- tions Account country may take out CFAF 25,000 (CFAF 12,500 for children under 10 years) in BEAC bank notes. Residents and nonresidents traveling to foreign countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, the Operations Account countries, or Zaire may freely take out up to a maximum of CFAF 10,000 in BEAC bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in the Congo is permitted upon presenta- tion of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Exports and Export Proceeds In principle, all exports require prior authoriza- tion, but most exports to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be made freely; among the exceptions are com- modities exported by the National Marketing Office for Agricultural Products (Office du cafe et du cacao and Office des cultures vivrieres) and by the Con- golese Marketing Office for Timber (Office congolais du bois). Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatriated, generally within 180 days of arrival of the commodities at their destina- tion. Export proceeds must be surrendered within a month of the due date. All export transactions relat- ing to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles All amounts due from residents of foreign coun- tries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be col- lected when due and surrendered within a month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Ac- count with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins). Capital Capital movements between the Congo and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries are free, although ex post declarations are required. Such movements to coun- tries that are not members of the BEAC are subject to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO 121 a commission of 0.25 percent. Most international capital transactions are subject to prior authoriza- tion. Capital transfers abroad require exchange con- trol approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from abroad are generally permitted freely. All for- eign securities, foreign currency, and titles embody- ing claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in the Congo by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in the Congo. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may apply) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the is- suing, advertising, and offering for sale of foreign securities in the Congo; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. Direct investments abroad2 require the prior ap- proval of the Minister of Finance and the Budget; the full or partial liquidation of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Minister. For- eign direct investments in the Congo3 require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance and the Budget, unless they involve the creation of a mixed- economy enterprise. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in the Congo must be declared to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Congolese investments abroad or foreign investments in the Congo, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days. Direct investments are defined as invest- ments implying control of a company or enterprise. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Congo requires prior autho- rization from the Minister of Finance and the Bud- get. Exempt from authorization, however, are oper- ations in connection with (1) borrowing backed by a guarantee from the Congolese Government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, adver- tising, or offering for sale in the Congo has already been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents re- quires prior authorization from the Minister of Fi- 2Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Congo and those made by overseas branches or subsidiaries of companies in the Congo. Including those involving the transfer, between nonresi- dents, of funds in the form of participation in the capital of a Congolese company. nance and the Budget. However, loans contracted by registered banks and small loans, where the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 10 mil- lion for any one borrower, are exempt from this requirement. The contracting of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation. Lending by residents to nonresidents is subject to exchange control, and all lending in CFA francs to nonresidents is prohibited, unless special authori- zation is obtained from the Minister of Finance and the Budget. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans in foreign curren- cies granted by registered banks; (2) other loans in foreign currencies when the total amount outstand- ing of these loans does not exceed the equivalent of CFAF 5 million for any one lender; and (3) foreign currency loans whose interest rate does not exceed 5 percent a year and whose maturity is two years or less. The making of loans that are free of authoriza- tion, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations within 20 days. Under the Investment Code of April 26, 1973, a number of privileges may be granted to approved foreign investments. The Code provides for four categories of preferential treatment. Gold By virtue of Decree No. 66/236 of July 29,1966, as amended by Decree No. 66/265 of August 29, 1966, residents are free to hold gold in the form of coins, art objects, or jewelry; however, to hold gold in any other form or to import or export gold in any form, from or to any other country, the prior authorization of the Minister of Finance and the Budget is re- quired. Exempt from the latter requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Trea- sury or the BEAC, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are sub- ject to customs declaration. There are no official exports of gold. Changes During 1991 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Costa Rica is the Costa Rican Colon. Costa Rica follows a flexible exchange rate system, under which the exchange rate is adjusted periodically, taking into account relative rates of inflation between Costa Rica and its trading part- ners and balance of payments developments. All transactions take place at the unified exchange rate. On December 31,1991, the buying and selling bank rates were C 134.10 and C 136.75 per US$1, respec- tively. The official exchange rate of C 20.0 per US$1 is not used in transactions. The maximum spread between the buying and selling rates in the banking exchange market did not exceed 2 percent during 1991. Purchases and sales of currencies of Central American countries are effected on the basis of quotations in colones, taking into account the value of those currencies in terms of U.S. dollars in the parallel exchange markets of the respective coun- tries. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risks operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Costa Rica formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 1, 1965. Administration of Control Exchange controls are operated by the Central Bank of Costa Rica. The only institutions authorized to deal with foreign exchange transactions are the Central Bank, the state commercial banks, and pri- vate banks authorized by the Central Bank. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Nearly all payments for exchange transactions are made in U.S. dollars. Payments to Central America in respect of trade may be made in U.S. dollars or in local currencies through the Central American Clearing System. Imports and Import Payments There is no import licensing, and all import pay- ments may be made freely. All imports must be registered in the Central Bank before removal from customs or before the submission of requests for foreign exchange, with the following exceptions: (1) temporary imports; (2) domestically produced goods reimported into Costa Rica; (3) imports by diplomatic and foreign missions and international organizations; and (4) household items. Imports made on a barter basis require a barter license (licen- cia de trueque), issued by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Imports from South Africa are prohibited. Customs tariff rates on most goods range from zero to 40 percent. In addition to any applicable customs tariff, the following taxes are levied on imports: (1) a tax of 1 percent on import value; (2) a sales tax of 13 percent ad valorem, from which cer- tain essential items are exempt; and (3) a selective consumption tax at rates varying from zero to 75 percent, depending on the essentiality of items. Vehicles used in paid (public service) transporta- tion, trucks, ambulances, hearses, and chassis with a single or dual cab are exempted from the sur- charge. Other vehicles with an import value of up to $6,000 are subject to a surcharge of 15 percent. Pickup trucks with a weight capacity of up to 1 ton are subject to a surcharge of 17 percent and those with a weight of more than 1 ton are subject to a surcharge of 2 percent plus a tax of 2 percent. Minibuses for collective transportation and vehi- cles are subject to the selective consumption tax at the following rates: (1) those with a customs value of less than $7,000, 12 percent; (2) those with a customs value exceeding $7,000, with displacement of up to 1,500 cubic centimeters, 20 percent; (3) those with a customs value exceeding $7,000, with displacement of more than 1,500 cubic cen- timeters, 30 percent; and (4) others, depending on value, displacement, and accessories, 25 percent. Pickup trucks with a standard weight of up to 1 ton are also subject to a selective consumption tax of 25 percent; those with a weight of over 1 ton are exempt. Pickup trucks are subject to a selective con- sumption tax of 15 percent. Chassis of less than 1 ton are also subject to a selective consumption tax of 25 percent; dual-cab chassis weighting less than 1 ton are subject to a selective consumption tax of 15 percent; and dual-cab pickup trucks weighing more than 1 ton are subject to 15 percent. An advance deposit equivalent to 30 percent of the value of imports is required at the time of sub- mission of applications for foreign exchange to au- thorized commercial banks. 122 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA 123 Payments for Invisibles Withholding taxes of 15 percent are levied on remit- tances of dividends. The 5 percent withholding tax is levied on dividends distributed by stock companies whose shares were acquired at the stock exchange and are registered at an officially acknowledged stock exchange. Remittances abroad of interest are subject to a 15 percent withholding tax, except for remittances to foreign banks or to their financial entities recog- nized by the Central Bank as institutions normally engaged in international transactions, including pay- ments to foreign suppliers for commodity imports. Interest on loans from foreign institutions recognized by the Central Bank as first-rate institutions is not taxed if the funds are used by resident firms for indus- trial or agricultural/livestock activities. Interest on government borrowing abroad is exempt. Costa Rican nationals and resident foreigners traveling abroad by air, land, or sea must pay a travel exit tax in colones equivalent to $31; Costa Rican nationals who reside abroad must pay, in addition, a consular fee of $20 upon renewal of their passports abroad. Costa Rican diplomats and their dependents and certain Peace Corps officials pay an exit fee of only C117, provided their passport states that they are exempt from the above charges. Civil servants and students are not exempt from these payments, unless so determined by the Ministry of Finance or the Migration Council. Commercial banks dealing in the unified market may sell foreign exchange, without the prior autho- rization of the Central Bank, in the following amounts: (1) for foreign travel to destinations out- side Central America, a limit of $125 a day up to $2,000 a traveler (upon presentation of passport and travel tickets, commercial banks are authorized to sell the equivalent of this amount) for travel within Central America, $75 a day up to $750 a traveler); (2) for family remittances, up to $500 a person a month to a maximum of $1,000 a family; and (3) for registered students, a maximum of $500 a month for living expenses, in addition to tuition, textbooks, and insurance, upon presentation of documents. Subject to approval from the Central Bank, these limits may be exceeded where justified by evidence of bona fide current expenditures for the specified purpose. Prior authorization is also required for any foreign exchange purchases for professional ser- vices, royalties, and patent rights. For the servicing of private foreign debt, and foreign payment of divi- dends, it is also required that the capital inflow be registered in advance at the Central Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds The Central Bank monitors exports to ensure that exchange proceeds are surrendered to the commer- cial banks, which sell to the Central Bank all of their purchases. Exporters of nontraditional products to markets outside Central America are entitled to re- ceive freely negotiable tax credit certificates (CATs) at the following rates based on the f .o .b. value: (1) 15 percent for exports to the United States, Puerto Rico, and Europe, and (2) 20 percent for exports to Canada. Exports are subject to aformulario unico de exporta- tion (issued by Centre para la Promocion de Expor- taciones) for foreign exchange control purposes. In addition to this license, other export licenses are required for strategic goods, such as armaments, munitions, scrap iron, and scrap of nonferrous base metals (from the Ministry of Economy and Com- merce); sugar (from the Agricultural Industrial Board for Sugarcane); beans, rice, root of ipeca- cuanha, onions, cotton, meat, and purebred cattle (from the National Council of Production); airplanes (from the Civil Aviation Board and the Ministry of Economy and Commerce); Indian art objects made of gold, stone, or clay (from the National Museum); tobacco (from the Tobacco Defense Board); lumber, certain livestock, and animals and plants of forest origin (from the Ministry of Agriculture and Live- stock); and coffee (from the Coffee Institute); in addition, when there is a lien on coffee in favor of a bank, that bank's approval is required before the Central Bank grants an export license. Exports to South Africa are prohibited. Exports to Central America may be made through the Central Ameri- can Clearing System. Exchange proceeds from exports of coffee, ba- nanas, sugar, beef, and bovine cattle must be sur- rendered within 30 days of shipment; those from exports of other perishable items, within 60 days of shipment; those from exports of industrial products except for capital goods, within 120 days of ship- ment; and those from exports of capital goods, within 360 days of shipment. There are no taxes on nontraditional exports to countries outside the Cen- tral American area and Panama; taxes are levied on traditional exports, in some cases, graduated in line with the international prices. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are free from controls or restrictions, but receipts from invisibles may be ex- changed into colones only at the Central Bank or other authorized institutions. Capital All capital transfers between residents and non- residents may be made, subject to prior authoriza- tion by the Central Bank. Capital received by the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 124 COSTA RICA private sector may be registered at the Central Bank, provided that it meets various requirements, in- cluding that (1) the amount of the capital is not less than $5,000; and (2) the individual concerned sells the foreign exchange to the Central Bank or to any other bank in the national banking system. The registration guarantees the individual that the Cen- tral Bank will sell to him the exchange required to service the debt at the exchange rate in force at the time the servicing is effected. An annual limit of 6.25 percent of the face value of the debt converted is imposed on dividend remittances associated with debt/equity conversions. The National Budget Authority1 is in charge of authorizing the negotiation of new external credits contemplated by the Central Government, de- centralized agencies, and state enterprises. Foreign and domestic capital transferred from abroad may be deposited as time deposits in U.S. dollars with agent banks in the form of specified foreign curren- cies or be invested in certificates of deposit denomi- nated in colones; such funds, when they mature, are repaid in the currency in which the deposits were made. Gold The Central Bank may purchase, sell, or hold gold coins or bars as part of the monetary reserves in 1 Composed of the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Plan- ning, and the President of the Central Bank. accordance with regulations established by its Board. Natural and juridical persons may negotiate, subject to approval from the Central Bank, at home or abroad, domestically produced gold (except na- tional archaeological treasures, pursuant to Law No. 6703 of December 18, 1981), provided there is no infraction of international agreements. As in the case of other exports, licenses from the Central Bank are required for exports of gold. Gold may also be held in any form in Costa Rica. The Central Bank may sell unrefined gold to artistic or professional users or to enterprises that export jewelry. Changes During 1991 Imports and Import Payments January 7. The rate of advance import deposit was fixed at 30 percent. A 10 percent import surcharge was imposed on all imports. January 15. The rate of advance import deposit was increased to 70 percent. February 15. The rate of advance import deposit was lowered to 50 percent. March 12. Imports from Central American coun- tries and Panama were exempted from the 10 per- cent import surcharge. May 14. The rate of advance import deposit was lowered to 30 percent. August 31. The 10 percent import surcharge ap- plying to imports from countries other than Central American countries was eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cote d'lvoire is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the interven- tion currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buying and selling rates are CFAF 50 per F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO levies no commission on transfers to or from countries outside the West African Monetary Union (WAMU).2 Banks and the postal system levy a com- mission on transfers to all countries outside the WAMU, all of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, the ex- change control measures of Cote d'lvoire do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other coun- tries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other coun- tries are considered foreign countries. Spot foreign exchange cover is limited to imports effected by means of documentary credits; the transaction must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary, and goods must be shipped within eight days of the exchange operation. Forward ex- change cover for eligible imports must not extend beyond one month for certain specified goods and three months for goods designated essential com- modities; no renewal of cover is possible. Forward cover against exchange rate risk is permitted, with prior authorization from the Directorate of External Finance and Credit, only in respect of payments for imports of goods and only for the currency stipu- lated in the commercial contract. There are no offi- aThe CFA franc is issued by the Banque centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Quest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2Transfers between member countries of the WAMU are sub- ject to the flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. cial schemes for currency swaps or guaranteed ex- change rates for debt servicing. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate of External Finance and Credit in the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The BCEAO is authorized to collect any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics, either directly or through the banks, other financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public. All ex- change transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of External Trade in the Ministry of Commerce. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since Cote d'lvoire is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Settle- ments with all other countries are usually effected through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on those applied in France. BCEAO bank notes may be credited to foreign ac- counts in francs when they have been mailed to the BCEAO agency in Abidjan by authorized banks' foreign correspondents. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other in- stitute of issue that maintains an Operations Ac- count with the French Treasury is prohibited. For- eign accounts in francs may be debited, without prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO bank notes that are mailed by authorized intermediaries to their foreign correspondents. 125 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 126 COTE D'lVOIRE Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. Under the current regulations, all imports are classified into four categories, as follows: (1) prohibited im- ports (for example, wheat flour and used garments); (2) import items (for example, paints, matches, and detergents) for which import licenses are obligatory for each import transaction equal to or exceeding CFAF 25,000, f .o.b.; (3) import items requiring both prior authorization and a declaration of intent to import (these requirements apply only to individual transactions equal to or exceeding CFAF 100,000, f .o.b.); and (4) freely importable items (a declaration of intent to import is required for individual transac- tions equal to or exceeding CFAF 1.5 million). As noted below, certain other import items are subject to annual volume or value quotas. Thus, imports of rice depend on domestic production, since they are intended as a supplementary means of satisfying domestic demand; such imports take place on the basis of an international invitation to bid. All other imports may be made freely from any country; however, as mentioned above, imports made freely are subject to submission of an import declaration when their f .o .b. value is CFAF 100,000 or more, and, in some instances, authorization is also required when the f .o .b. value exceeds CFAF 1.5 million, and, unless specifically ex- empted, a preshipment inspection by international agencies to verify their price, quantity, and quality is mandatory. A special import duty of 10 percent is levied on all imports with only a few exceptions; exempted from the duty are live animals, fish, dairy products, petroleum products, pharmaceuticals, books, and products imported under the invest- ment code. A statistical tax of 2.5 percent is levied on the c . i . f. value of all imports, except petroleum. During 1989, tariffs were raised with a view to har- monizing effective protection of local production; in the case of some goods, quotas were replaced by temporary surcharges scheduled to decline prog- ressively during a five-year period that began in 1988. Imports from member countries of the West African Economic Community (WAEC) and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) are exempt from the surcharges. All import operations relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000; transactions of lower value must also be domiciled with an autho- rized bank if a financial transaction is to be under- taken before customs clearance. The import licenses or import attestations entitle importers to purchase the necessary foreign exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened, or only on the due date of payment if the commodities have already been imported. Since June 15, 1981, foreign exchange for import pay- ments must be purchased either on the settlement date specified in the commercial contract or when the required down payment is made. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely; those to other countries must be approved. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to non- residents in the form of profits, dividends, and roy- alties are also permitted freely when the underlying transaction has been approved. Any resident may make payments abroad freely at any time through an authorized bank, up to the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 a month without submitting any documentation. Residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange alloca- tion for tourism of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a year (CFAF 87,500 for chil- dren under 10 years). For business travel, a special foreign exchange allocation is authorized up to a maximum of CFAF 20,000 a day and CFAF 400,000 a trip. Any foreign exchange remaining in excess of CFAF 5,000 must be surrendered after return to Cote d'lvoire. The transfer of the full basic salary of a foreigner working in Cote d'lvoire is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Resident and nonresident travelers to foreign countries may take out BCEAO bank notes up to a value of CFAF 25,000. Travelers to other countries of the Operations Account Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes; however, if they travel to a country that is not a member of the WAMU, they must declare to customs the amount they take out if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers to foreign countries may freely take out foreign bank notes and coins up to the equivalent of CFAF 175,000, as well as any trav- eler's checks issued abroad. Subject to documenta- tion, they may also take out any amount of traveler's checks in their name in foreign currency purchased with CFA francs in Cote dTvoire or purchased with funds drawn from a foreign account in francs. Non- residents who have made a currency declaration ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE 127 upon entry or are able to show the proper banking notices may take out larger amounts. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. Most ex- ports are free of license and require a declaration only. Exports of certain processed and unprocessed agricultural commodities, however, require an ex- port license issued by the Directorate of External Trade. An export premium is applicable to locally manufactured products and agricultural products on the basis of the export value added, excluding unprocessed coffee, cocoa, cotton, and pineapples. The export reference prices for cocoa and coffee (in f .o .b .) are fixed in advance of the beginning of the new crop season on October 1, based on a combina- tion of the spot prices on the world market and the actual sales prices realized in forward sales of parts of the forthcoming crop. The Agricultural Price Sta- bilization Fund (CSSPPA) establishes a schedule of domestic costs associated with the collection, trans- portation, and storage of the harvested crops and announces the price to be paid to the producers. The Ministry of Finance may impose a unitary ex- port tax to absorb any resulting surplus, the pro- ceeds of which accrue directly to the Treasury. Ex- port taxes are waived for products receiving the premium, and products covered by taxation agree- ments under the WAEC are not eligible for the pre- mium. The due date for payment in respect of ex- ports to foreign countries, including those in the Operations Account Area, must not be later than 180 days after the arrival of the goods at their desti- nation. Regardless of the currency of settlement and of the country of destination, export receipts must be collected and repatriated through authorized in- termediary banks within one month of the due date. Regardless of destination, all export transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank when valued at more than CFAF 500,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident trav- elers may import any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Ac- count with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account Area; residents bringing in foreign bank notes or other foreign means of payment must surrender any amount in excess of CFAF 5,000 to an autho- rized bank within eight days and must make a dec- laration to customs upon entry. Capital Capital movements between Cote d'lvoire and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require ex- change control approval, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may apply) are maintained over borrowing abroad by the private sector, foreign inward direct investment, all outward direct invest- ment in foreign countries, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Cote d'lvoire. Such operations require prior au- thorization from the Ministry of Economy and Fi- nance, as do issues by Cote d'lvoire companies. Exempt from authorization, however, are opera- tions in connection with (1) loans backed by a guar- antee from the Government of Cote d'lvoire, and (2) foreign shares similar to securities whose is- suing, advertising, or offering for sale in Cote d'lvoire has already been authorized. With the ex- ception of controls relating to foreign securities, these measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, member coun- tries of the WAMU, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are also maintained over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign pri- vate persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Cote d'lvoire require prior authorization from the Minis- ter of Economy and Finance.3 Foreign direct invest- ments in Cote d'lvoire must be authorized in ad- vance by the Minister of Economy and Finance.4 Effective June 15, 1981, at least 75 percent of invest- ments abroad by residents of Cote d'lvoire must be Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons resident in Cote d'lvoire and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies resident in Cote d'lvoire. including those made in Cote d'lvoire by companies that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Cote d'lvoire. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 128 COTE D'lVOIRE financed by borrowing abroad. The liquidation of direct and other investments in Cote d'lvoire or abroad must similarly be reported in advance to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Ivorien invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in Cote d'lvoire, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days of each operation. Direct investments are de- fined as investments implying control of a company or an enterprise. Mere participation is not consid- ered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents must be authorized in advance by the Minister of Econ- omy and Finance. The following are, however, ex- empt from this authorization: (1) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance transactions abroad, to finance imports into or exports from Cote d'lvoire, or by approved international trading houses to fi- nance international trade transactions; (2) loans con- tracted by authorized banks; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new bor- rowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower, and provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate. The repay- ment of loans constituting a direct investment is subject to the formalities prescribed for the liquida- tion of direct investments. The repayment of other loans requires authorization only if the loan itself was subject to prior approval. Lending abroad is subject to exchange control authorization. Under the investment code introduced in 1984, special incentives are provided for foreign and do- mestic investments in certain priority sectors and pri- ority geographical areas. The incentives include ex- emption from customs duties and tariffs on all imported capital equipment and spare parts for in- vestment projects, provided that no equivalent item is produced in Cote d'lvoire. In addition, all such invest- ments are exempted for a specified period, depending on the investment sector or area, from corporate profit taxes, patent contributions, and capital assets taxes. In general, the exemption covers 100 percent of appli- cable tax up to the fourth-to-last year of the exemption period, is reduced progressively to 75 percent of the tax in the third-to-last year of the exemption period, 50 percent in the second-to-last year, and 25 percent in the last year of the exemption period. Imports of inter- mediate goods or raw materials for which no equiv- alents are produced locally are not exempt from im- port duties and taxes. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Cote d'lvoire. Imports and ex- ports of gold to or from any other country require prior authorization from the Minister of Economy and Finance, which is rarely granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO, (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles), and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a weight of 250 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports and exports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1991 Imports and Import Payments May 5. The surcharge on crude palm oil was eliminated. Exports and Export Proceeds January 2. The list of wood products subject to export quotas was expanded to include products that had undergone the first stage of processing, and a system of establishing export quotas through auction was introduced. October 1. A new system of export licensing for coffee and cocoa was put into effect as well as a new system for determining the export price of coffee and cocoa. Under the new system, their f .o .b. ex- port reference prices would be fixed in advance of the beginning of the new crop season on October 1, based on a combination of the spot prices on the world market and the actual sales prices realized in forward sales of parts of the forthcoming crop. The Agricultural Price Stabilization Fund (CSSPPA) would establish a schedule of domestic costs associ- ated with the collection, transportation, and storage of the harvested crops and would announce the price to be paid to the producers. The Ministry of Finance reserves the right to impose a unitary ex- port tax to absorb any resulting surplus, the pro- ceeds of which would accrue directly to the Treasury. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement Administration of Control The currency of Cyprus is the Cyprus Pound. The exchange rate of the Cyprus pound is adjusted daily, with the aim of maintaining its effective rela- tionship with the currencies of its main trading part- ners. On December 31,1991, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were £C 0.4382 and £C 0.4399 respec- tively, per US$1. The Central Bank of Cyprus also quotes daily buying and selling rates for the deut- sche mark, the Greek drachma, and the pound ster- ling. These rates are subject to change throughout the day. It also quotes indicative rates for other foreign currencies1 on the basis of market rates in international money market centers. Subject to cer- tain limitations, including a limit on spreads be- tween the buying and selling rates, authorized dealers (banks) are free to determine and quote their own buying and selling rates. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized dealers are allowed to trade in the for- ward market at rates that may be freely negotiated with their customers. For U.S. dollars and pounds sterling, however, forward rates may not differ by more than the premiums or discounts that are applied by the Central Bank for cover for a similar period. Authorized dealers are allowed to purchase forward cover from the Central Bank at prevailing rates or to conduct forward operations between two foreign cur- rencies for cover in one of the two currencies. The Central Bank offers authorized dealers facilities for forward purchases of U.S. dollars and pounds ster- ling for exports, for periods of up to 24 months. Cover for imports is normally provided for up to 6 months. When justified (for example, payments for imports of raw materials for exports or capital goods), rates are quoted for up to 15 months. Forward contracts must be based on genuine commercial commitments. For- ward cover may also be provided for up to 12 months to residents for specific financial commitments. Cyprus formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from January 9, 1991. Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and European Currency Units (ECUs). Exchange controls are administered by the Cen- tral Bank in cooperation with authorized dealers. Authority to approve applications for the allocation of foreign exchange for a number of purposes has been delegated to authorized dealers. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made by crediting Cyprus pounds to an external account, or in any foreign currency;2 the proceeds of exports to all countries may be received in Cyprus pounds from an external account, or in any foreign currency. Nonresident and Resident Accounts Residents of countries outside Cyprus may open and maintain with authorized dealers nonresident accounts in Cyprus pounds, designated external accounts, or foreign currency accounts. These ac- counts may be credited freely with payments from nonresidents of Cyprus (such as transfers from other external accounts or foreign currency ac- counts), proceeds from sales of any foreign cur- rency by nonresidents (including declared bank notes), and the entire proceeds, including capital appreciation, from the sale of an investment made by a nonresident in Cyprus with the approval of the Central Bank and with authorized payments in Cyprus pounds. External accounts and foreign cur- rency accounts may be debited for payments to resi- dents and nonresidents, for remittances abroad, for transfers to other external accounts or foreign cur- rency accounts, and for payments in cash (Cyprus pounds) in Cyprus. Companies registered or incor- porated in Cyprus that are accorded nonresident status by the Central Bank as well as their nonresi- dent employees may maintain external accounts and foreign currency accounts in Cyprus or abroad, as well as local disbursement accounts for meeting their payments in Cyprus. Resident persons and firms dealing with transit trade or engaged in producer-exporter activities may open and main- tain foreign currency accounts subject to certain requirements. Exporters may deposit up to 50 per- cent of export proceeds in these accounts and use balances to pay for imports of raw materials used in 2Foreign currencies are all currencies other than the Cyprus pound. 129 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 130 CYPRUS production. Account holders are, however, required to convert into Cyprus pounds at the end of each year any balances they had not used to pay for imports. Expatriates (considered as residents for foreign exchange control purposes) may keep in foreign currency, in external accounts in Cyprus, or in accounts abroad all of their foreign currency hold- ings and earnings accruing from properties they own abroad. Blocked accounts are maintained in the name of nonresidents for funds that may not immediately and in their entirety be transferred outside Cyprus under the existing exchange control regulations. Blocked funds may either be held as deposits or be invested in government securities or government- guaranteed securities. Income earned on blocked funds is freely transferable to the nonresident bene- ficiary or it may be credited to an external account or foreign currency account. In addition to income, the principal that may be released annually from blocked funds for transfer outside Cyprus is up to £C 5,000. Funds can also be released f rom blocked accounts to meet reasonable expenses in Cyprus of the account holder and his family, including educa- tional expenses, donations to charitable institutions in Cyprus, payments for the acquisition of immov- able property in Cyprus, and any other amounts authorized by the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are free of licensing requirements. Only imports of certain commodities require an im- port license, including fresh fru i ts, fresh vegeta- bles, fresh meat, goods produced or manufac tured locally, and plant and equipment. The Minister of Commerce and Industry may take measures whenever required to regulate the impor- tation of goods for the encouragement of local pro- duction and manufac ture. Exchange is allocated freely and without restriction through authorized dealers to pay for imports, provided that documen- tary evidence of shipment or actual importation of goods is available. Advance payments before shipment require the prior approval of the Central Bank, except for im- ports whose value does not exceed £C 2,000. Autho- rized dealers are allowed to sell to departing resi- dents of Cyprus foreign exchange up to £C 20,000 for purchases and for the importation of goods to Cyprus; foreign exchange in excess of this limit may be sold to departing residents with the approval of the Central Bank. An import surcharge of 3.8 per- cent (2.5 percent for imports f rom European Com- munity (EC) countries) ad valorem is levied on all imports, except food, pharmaceuticals, and goods imported by the Government. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles abroad require the ap- proval of the Central Bank, but approval authority for certain types of payments has been delegated to authorized dealers. Profits, dividends, and interest from approved foreign investments are transferable abroad without limitation, af ter payment of any due charges and taxes. Insurance premiums owed to foreign insurance companies are remittable af ter deduction of all contingencies. Allowances are granted for study abroad at col- leges, universities, or other institutions of higher edu- cation, and certain lower-level institutions of learning. Exchange allowances are based on the cost of living and cover the full amount of tuition fees plus living expenses for the student. The maximum annual al- lowance for living expenses for studies in Western European countries, excluding Greece, is £C 4,000; for Greece, £C 2,500; for Canada and the United States, £C 5,600; for Eastern European and Middle Eastern countries, £C 2,200; and for all other countries, £C 3,000. There is no limit on the remittance of foreign exchange for payment of tuition fees. Any amount of foreign exchange may be allocated for tourist travel abroad. The ceiling on foreign exchange for tourist travel was lifted on November 1,1990 in the context of the liberalization measures taken by the Central Bank. Authorized dealers have been allowed, without any reference to the Central Bank, to provide foreign ex- change up to £C 750 a person a trip. In addition, the Central Bank approves applications for allocations of additional foreign exchange without limitation to cover genuine travel expenses for tourism purposes. The allowance for business travel is not fixed but depends on the length of stay abroad, the country or countries to be visited, and the purpose. Authorized dealers are empowered to provide up to £C 100 a day with a maximum of £C 1,000. Company credit cards valid abroad are issued to businessmen and profes- sionals traveling abroad on business. Credit cards entitle the holders to charge their expenses for hotel and restaurant bills and transportation expenses with- out limit and personal expenses not exceeding £C 400 a trip, including cash withdrawals of up to £C 100. If the traveler holds an international card, authorized dealers are allowed to provide up to £C 60 a day in foreign exchange. Authorized dealers are also al- lowed to issue personal credit cards to certain catego- ries of persons. Enterprises may use credit cards for payments of up to £C 300 for mail orders of books or other items. Additional amounts for business travel may be provided with the approval of the Central ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS 131 Bank. Foreign exchange for medical expenses abroad is granted without limit, and authorized dealers are empowered to provide allowances of up to £C 3,000 for medical expenses. On leaving Cyprus, travelers may take out with them up to £C 50 in Cyprus currency notes. There is no limit on the amount of foreign currency notes that departing residents may take out of the country as part of any of their foreign exchange allowances. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of foreign currency notes they declared on arrival. In- dividuals possessing foreign exchange must declare it if they plan to use it to purchase goods to export, or to purchase properties, or to deposit it with au- thorized dealers. Nonresidents may export foreign currency notes equivalent to up to $1,000 even if they did not declare them on arrival. In addition, authorized dealers may convert up to £C 100 into foreign currency for departing nonresidents and are permitted to issue to nonresidents as well as to resident employees of offshore companies any amount of foreign currency notes against external funds. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of potatoes and carrots are subject to con- trol by the respective marketing boards, and exports of wheat, barley, and maize are subject to control by the Cyprus Grain Commission. All exports are subject to licensing when their f.o.b. value exceeds £C 100 to ensure the repatriation of the sale proceeds. Export proceeds must be surrendered without delay. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold to an autho- rized dealer. Persons entering Cyprus may bring in any amount in foreign currency notes and up to £C 50 in Cyprus currency notes. Capital Transfers abroad of a capital nature require au- thorization from the Central Bank. Permission for direct investment abroad by residents is granted, provided that the proposed investments will pro- mote exports of goods and services or they will benefit the Cypriot economy. Investments in Cyprus by nonresidents require the prior approval of the Central Bank, which, in considering applications, gives due regard to the purpose of the investment, the extent of possible foreign exchange savings or earnings, the introduc- tion of know-how, and, in general, the benefits ac- cruing to the national economy. Foreign direct in- vestment is normally permitted in selected fields of production, such as export-oriented industries and new technology projects. Annual profits and pro- ceeds from the liquidation of approved foreign in- vestments, including capital gains, may be repatri- ated in full at any time, after payment of any charges and taxes. With the permission of the Council of Ministers, alien nonresidents may acquire in Cyprus immov- able property for use as a residence or holiday home; they are required to pay the value of such property in foreign exchange. The sales proceeds of such property are transferable abroad up to the amount originally paid for the purchase of the prop- erty; the balance, if any, is transferable at the yearly rate of £C 5,000, plus interest. The same treatment is accorded to nonresident Cypriots purchasing a holiday home in Cyprus. Residents of Cyprus (Cypriots or foreign na- tionals) who take up residence outside Cyprus may immediately transfer abroad up to £C 10,000; any excess amount is deposited in a blocked account and released at the rate of £C 5,000 a year. The transfer abroad of funds resulting from estates and intes- tacies and from the sale of real estate, other than that referred to in the preceding paragraph, is lim- ited to £C 5,000, with any excess amount to be credited to a blocked account and also released at the rate of £C 5,000 a year. Interest earned on a blocked account is freely transferable abroad. Transactions in foreign securities owned by resi- dents require prior permission f rom the Central Bank. In principle, all securities held abroad by residents are subject to registration. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Cyprus for numismatic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers in gold, and industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Authorized dealers in gold are permitted to import gold only for the purpose of disposing of it to industrial users. The exportation of gold requires the permission of the exchange control authorities. Changes During 1991 Nonresident and Resident Accounts March 1. The Central Bank delegated authority to authorized dealers to open and operate foreign currency accounts in the name of resident man- u f a c tu r e r s. Expor ters may deposit up to 50 per- cent of export proceeds in these accounts and use balances to pay for imports of raw materials used ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 132 CYPRUS in production. Account holders would be required to convert into Cyprus pounds at the end of each year any balances they had not used to pay for imports. May 31. The Central Bank delegated authority to authorized dealers to open and operate foreign cur- rency accounts in the name of residents who are engaged in transit trade. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CZECH AND SLOVAK FEDERAL REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Czechoslovakia is the Koruna (100 hallers = 1 koruna). The exchange rate of the koruna is determined on the basis of a weighted basket of the convertible currencies that have the most important shares in the external transactions of Czechoslovakia, namely, the currencies of Aus- tria, France, Germany, Switzerland, and the United States; the weights for these currencies are adjusted annually. On December 31, 1991, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Kcs 27.56 and Kcs 28.12, respectively, per US$1. The State Bank of Czechoslovakia quotes exchange rates daily for 21 convertible currencies1 and for the European Cur- rency Unit (ECU) and the SDR. The buying and selling rates for these currencies are based on their cross rates in relation to the U.S. dollar in interna- tional markets. The spread between the buying and selling rates quoted by commercial banks for com- mercial transactions is subject to a maximum limit of 2 percent, except for bank notes, which may have larger spreads (normally 3-4 percent). The State Bank provides forward cover against exchange rate risk in the form of swap operations with commercial banks for up to a two-year maturity period. Administration of Control Foreign exchange controls and regulations are stipulated in the revised Foreign Exchange Law, which came into effect on January 1,1991. This law introduced a system of internal convertibility of the Czechoslovak currency. Annual foreign exchange plans, under which foreign exchange was centrally allocated, have been abolished, and restrictions on payments and transfers related to current account transactions by enterprises have been eliminated. Commercial banks are authorized to effect pay- ments that have been properly documented. Resi- dent juridical persons and individual entrepreneurs registered in commercial registers are required to repatriate export proceeds in full and convert them into domestic currency. The State Bank is responsi- ble for carrying out exchange controls and regula- tions in coordination with the federal and republic ministries of finance. In general, the Federal Minis- try of Finance has authority over governmental credits and over budgetary and subsidized organi- zations, civic associations, churches, foundations, and juridical persons who fall within federal juris- diction and are not engaged in entrepreneurial ac- tivities. The republic ministries of finance have au- thority over budgetary and subsidized organ- izations, civic associations operating within the ju- risdiction of the respective republics, churches, foundations, and juridical persons who fall within the jurisdiction of the respective republics and who are not engaged in entrepreneurial activities, as well as natural persons resident in the territory of the respective republics. The State Bank has au- thority over the activities of all registered enter- prises and entrepreneurs. Prescription of Currency Payments to and receipts from countries with which Czechoslovakia has multilateral and bilateral agreements may be effected in the currencies stipu- lated or in accordance with the procedures set forth in these agreements. At the end of 1991, Czechoslo- vakia had bilateral payments agreements with Afghanistan, Albania, India, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. The multilateral agree- ment within the framework of the former Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA) trade agreement has been terminated since January 1, 1991. However, interim agreements exist with all former CMEA members for purposes of settling outstanding balances and unfulfilled trade con- tracts. In the case of the former U.S.S.R., the agree- ments also cover arrangements for payments for trade during 1991 through clearing accounts de- nominated in U.S. dollars. In cases where specific agreements do not exist, or trade takes place outside the framework of the agreements, settlements are effected in a convertible currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident Accounts 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Jap- anese yen, Luxembourg francs, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, pounds sterling, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Czechoslovak resident individuals (including un- registered entrepreneurs) may open interest- bearing foreign exchange accounts at any resident commercial bank without revealing the source of foreign exchange. Balances on these accounts may 133 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 134 CZECH AND SLOVAK FEDERAL REPUBLIC be used by the account holder without restriction. Resident enterprises that had outstanding foreign exchange accounts on December 31,1990 have been allowed to maintain such accounts; new foreign ex- change accounts, however, may be opened by enter- prises after December 31, 1990 only with a prior permit that exempts enterprises from the 100 per- cent surrender requirement. Balances on these ac- counts may be freely used to finance enterprises' activities. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents (natural and juridical persons) may maintain two types of interest-bearing accounts in Czechoslovakia: (1) Domestic currency accounts may be opened with Czechoslovak banks in koruna. Balances on these accounts may be used freely to make payments in Czechoslovakia. All payments abroad from these accounts, except transfers relating to inheritance and alimony, require a permit from the State Bank. (2) foreign currency accounts may be opened by nonresidents. Foreign exchange may be deposited freely in these accounts, and payments may be made from these accounts, in Czechoslovakia or abroad, without restriction. Imports and Exports Imports and exports may be undertaken by any registered enterprise or private entrepreneur. Im- port licenses are required for a few strategic items, namely, crude oil, natural gas, firearms and am- munition, and narcotics. In addition, temporary im- port quotas have been imposed on 12 agricultural products and coal, to be replaced in 1992 by an automatic licensing system that will be accom- panied by variable levies. All imports are subject to an ad valorem import tariff, ranging from zero to 35 percent. Imports by individuals for personal use that are not subject to domestic turnover tax are subject to a 15 percent import surcharge. Beginning in 1992, imports by individual registered traders for resale or for purposes of manufacturing production that are not subject to domestic turnover tax have also been subject to a special tax equivalent to the turnover tax. Imports from developing countries are granted preferential treatment under the Gener- alized System of Preferences (GSP). Under the GSP, 42 developing countries benefit from a duty exemp- tion, and 80 others are granted a 75 percent reduc- tion from the applicable customs duties; tropical products are granted an 85 percent reduction from the applicable customs duties. A resident individual is required to repatriate foreign exchange acquired abroad and is required to sell to a bank or deposit in a private foreign ex- change account foreign exchange (including gold, with the exception of gold coins) exceeding the equivalent of Kcs 5,000; he may freely withdraw funds from this account. Resident enterprises are required to repatriate, without delay, foreign ex- change receipts from exports and surrender them; with permission from the State Bank, they may maintain foreign exchange receipts in foreign ex- change accounts, and may freely use funds on these accounts to finance enterprises' activities. A limited number of products require export li- censes, for purposes of health control (including livestock and plants), of facilitating voluntary re- straints on products on which partner countries have imposed import quotas (such as textiles and steel products), or of preserving for the internal market natural resources or imported raw materials (such as energy, metallurgical materials, wood, foodstuffs, pharmaceutical products, and con- struction materials). For the two latter groups of products, neither quantitative nor value limits are in force. Fees are applied to noncommercial exports of a few products (certain food items and selected types of porcelain and glassware) in excess of a certain value. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Czechoslovak resident individuals may withdraw an unlimited amount of foreign exchange from their foreign currency accounts to make invisible pay- ments. They may also use, without limitation, the equivalent of Kcs 5,000 in foreign exchange receipts, which they are allowed to keep (see section on Im- ports and Exports, above). In addition, residents are entitled to buy foreign exchange for traveling abroad, up to a maximum amount specified by the State Bank (currently, the equivalent of Kcs 5,000 a year). Official travel by employees of budgetary and subsidized organizations is subject to different al- lowances, depending on the country of destination. Transfers of alimony may be made to a country with which a reciprocal agreement has been concluded. In case a resident individual does not have sufficient foreign exchange, a special permit is required in most instances for remittances relating to family maintenance, education, and medical treatment. Repatriation of wage savings by nonresident workers must be authorized by the State Bank. With certain exceptions related to tourism, exports and imports of Czechoslovak currency notes and their transfer abroad are permitted only with a foreign exchange license issued by the State Bank. Licenses are not required for the importation or exportation ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CZECH AND SLOVAK FEDERAL REPUBLIC 135 of foreign exchange assets, including foreign cur- rencies, by nonresidents. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement Capital Registered enterprises may freely obtain sup- pliers' credits and credits not related to trade abroad. Financial credits require a special permit from the State Bank. Direct investments abroad are subject to the approval of the State Bank; approval is normally granted if such investments are consid- ered to facilitate Czechoslovak exports. There is no limit on equity participation by non- residents. Credits may be obtained from foreign banks with the approval of the State Bank. Share- holdings in foreign exchange of foreign investors can be deposited in a foreign exchange account with a resident commercial bank. Foreign investors may freely transfer abroad their dividends, profits, capi- tal gains, and interest earnings. In accordance with the Foreign Exchange Act, they are allowed, in the event of liquidation of the enterprise, to repatriate freely the full value of their capital participation and capital gains in the original currency after payment of taxes. Transfers of inherited assets abroad are allowed to all countries on a reciprocal basis. Gold Residents are required to sell gold (with the ex- ception of gold coins) to financial institutions deal- ing in foreign exchange within 30 days of acquisi- tion. Without a foreign exchange license, non- residents may export inherited gold coins, provided that they submit a certificate confirming that the coins are of no historical value, and they may export gold that they have imported into the country. To export any other gold, nonresidents must have a foreign exchange license. April 29. Forward cover operations against ex- change rate risk were introduced. Prescription of Currency August 1. The bilateral payments agreement with the Islamic Republic of Iran was terminated. Imports and Exports May 1. Export-licensing requirements for several products, including pharmaceutical and medical products, pulp and paper products, and flour, were abolished. June 13. Quotas for 1991 for imports of cattle, beef, coal, butter, and nine other agricultural products were established. October 1. The regulations on import financing were abolished. October 15. A surcharge of 15 percent was im- posed on imports by individuals for personal use of goods that are not subject to the turnover tax. December 31. The surcharge on commercial im- ports was reduced to 10 percent. (The surcharge was 20 percent at the end of 1990 when it was introduced, lowered to 18 percent on May 1, 1991, and reduced fur ther to 15 percent on June 15,1991.) Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles January 1. Obligatory conversion of a minimum amount of foreign exchange for tourists was abolished. April 1. The annual foreign exchange entitlement for travel abroad by private citizens was increased to Kcs 5,000 from the equivalent of Kcs 2,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Denmark is the Danish Krone. Denmark participates with Belgium, France, Ger- many, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Nether- lands, Portugal, Spain, and the United Kingdom in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism (ERM) of the European Monetary System (EMS).l In accordance with this agreement, Denmark main- tains the spot exchange rates between the Danish krone and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 2.25 percent (in the case of the Portugese escudo, the pound sterling, and the Spanish peseta, 6 percent) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in Euro- pean Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Danmarks Na- tionalbank (central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other countries participating in the EMS in unlimited amounts at specified inter- vention rates. On December 31, 1991, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates per: Danish Kroner Upper limit Lower limit 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 deutsche mark 100 French francs 1 Irish pound 1,000 Italian lire 100 Netherlands guilders 1,000 Portuguese escudos1 1 pound sterling 100 Spanish pesetas 1 Effective April 6, 1992. 18.9143 390.160 116.320 10.4511 5.2140 346.240 46.5860 11.9479 6.2310 18.0831 373.000 111.200 9.9913 4.9850 331.020 41.3210 10.5976 5.5260 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. Danmarks Nationalbank, however, does in- tervene in other situations for the purpose of smoothing out fluctuations in exchange rates. Dan- marks Nationalbank has an obligation to intervene on the Danish foreign exchange market only at the intervention rates agreed within the EMS. Middle 1 With effect from April 6,1992, Portugal has participated in the ERM of the EMS. rates (average of buying and selling rates) for 22 foreign currencies (including the ECU);2 are of- ficially fixed daily and reflect the going rates at the time of the fixing. On December 31,1991, the official rates for the deutsche mark and the U.S. dollar were DKr 389.56 and DKr 591.35, respectively, per 100 units. All remaining foreign exchange regulations were lifted with effect from October 1, 1988. Residents may hold positions in foreign currencies without limitation with respect to the amounts, currencies, or instruments involved. There are no restrictions on foreign exchange dealing. The Executive Order on Foreign Exchange Regulations, issued by the Ministry of Industry with effect from October 1, 1988, contains rules concerning payments between residents and non- residents, which —for statistical purposes —must be reported to Danmarks Nationalbank when pay- ments exceed DKr 60,000. Residents (with certain exceptions) must deposit foreign securities and Danish bonds issued abroad either with a Danish or a foreign bank or with the issuer. Residents who are holding accounts with foreign banking institutions, have deposited se- curities abroad, or have entered into contracts with foreign life insurance companies are required to provide the Danish tax authorities with relevant information concerning these transactions. Denmark formally accepted the obligations of Ar- ticle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 1, 1967. Exchange Control Territory The Danish Monetary Area comprises Denmark, Greenland, and the Faeroe Islands. The Faeroe Is- lands are still subject to the regulations in force before October 1, 1988. Administration of Control No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or 2Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, deutsche mark, Greek drachmas, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Icelandic kronur, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Jap- anese yen, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Nor- wegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 136 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK 137 nonresidents. Exchange control rules on reporting requirements for statistical purposes, on depositing foreign securities, and on holding accounts abroad for tax purposes are administered by the Danmarks Nationalbank and foreign exchange dealers. For- eign exchange dealers are commercial banks, sav- ings banks, and stockbrokerage companies or other financial institutes, as defined in the Executive Order, provided that they settle payments between residents and nonresidents on a commercial basis through accounts held in or on behalf of foreign banking institutions (correspondent banks). Dan- marks Nationalbank has drawn up a list of foreign exchange dealers. Licenses for imports and exports, where re- quired, are issued by the Ministry of Industry, the Ministry of Agriculture, or the Ministry of Fisheries. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Imports and Import Payments Imports of most products, except for textiles, are free of licensing from all sources. For textiles, a common European Community (EC) system of export-import licenses has now been established for almost all countries exporting low-priced textiles. A few items require a license when originating in Japan, the Republic of Korea, or any other non- state-trading, non-EC country. A larger number of items require a license when originating in or pur- chased from Albania, Bulgaria, China, Czechoslo- vakia, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the former U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. No exchange control requirements are imposed on payments for imports. Exports and Export Proceeds Except for certain items subject to strategic con- trols, licenses for exports are required only for waste and scrap of certain metals. Nearly all exports of goods and services to South Africa are prohibited. No exchange control requirements are imposed on receipts from exports. Capital There are no restrictions on inward or outward capital transfers. The general rules on exchange control issued by the Ministry of Industry are based on EC directives on capital movements and on the Organization for Economic Cooperation and De- velopment Capital Code; no distinction is made in these rules between residents of member countries of the EC and those of the rest of the world. No special permission is required for residents to make transfers abroad in connection with direct in- vestments or with private acquisitions of real estate abroad. Private acquisition of real estate for non- commercial purposes and expenses related to build- ing and construction work on such property can be made without limitation. Exchange dealers do not need special permission to grant loans to nonresi- dents for the financing of payments to residents for purchases of Danish goods and services. Inward direct investment in the form of equity capital may be made without prior license. The sale to nonresidents of Danish bonds listed on a stock exchange does not require a special li- cense. Nonresidents may freely purchase or sub- scribe to all types of Danish shares, including shares of joint stock and private companies; they may also acquire private mortgage deeds. Residents may take up loans from nonresidents to finance imports of goods and services; they may also take up such loans to finance the granting of credits for exports of commodities and services. Business enterprises may borrow abroad without permission. Transfers of proceeds from the sale or liquidation of all types of investments and transfers of all other liquid funds in Denmark owned by nonresidents are permitted freely, irrespective of the manner in which the original investment was acquired. Inter- est and repayment of principal on authorized loans, credits, and deposits received from persons and firms who are nonresidents at the time of receipt may be paid without restriction. Inheritances and gifts to relatives may be trans- ferred to any country without limitation. Gift remit- tances to other persons may also be made without limitation. Imports and exports of securities are permitted. Danish securities held in Denmark and belonging to nonresidents may be sold freely to residents. For- eign securities held in Denmark may be negotiated freely between residents. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requirements are imposed on payments for or receipts from invisibles. Gold Residents may free ly buy, hold, and sell gold in bars or coins in Denmark; they may also import ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 138 DENMARK gold in bars or coins. Imports of gold in bars or coins, unless made by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities, are sub ject to a value-added tax at the rate of 22 percent; domestic transactions in gold are also taxed at the ra te of 22 percent. There is no customs du ty on imports of gold in bars or coins. Changes During 1991 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EC-wide basis during 1991, page 557.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DJIBOUTI (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Djibouti is the Djibouti Franc, which is freely convertible into U.S. dollars, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of DF 177.721 per US$1. Buying and selling rates for other curren- cies are set by local banks on the basis of cross rates for the U.S. dollar in international markets. The posted rates are subject to commission charges of 0.5-3.0 percent set by the commercial banks, de- pending on the currency concerned. There is a fixed commission of about DF 1,000 (or $6.00) for trans- fers in foreign currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Commercial enterprises are free to negotiate for- ward exchange contracts in respect of commercial and financial transactions through local banks or banks abroad. All transactions are negotiated at free market rates. There are no arrangements for for- ward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. On September 19, 1980, Djibouti formally ac- cepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control. The Djibouti franc is issued in notes and coins by the National Bank of Djibouti, which issues and redeems the currency against U.S. dollars. Deposits in U.S. dollars con- stitute the cover for the notes issued. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Otherwise, no prescription of currency requirements are in force. Djibouti, but the territory as a whole does not con- stitute a free zone. Formally, customs duties are not charged on imports, but in practice, fiscal duties are levied by means of the general consumption tax, at the rate of 30 percent on luxury goods and 20 per- cent on all other goods. Certain commodities, in- cluding alcoholic beverages, noncarbonated min- eral water, petroleum products, khat, and tobacco, are subject to a surtax at various rates. Additional taxes are levied on imported milk products and fruit juice. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Otherwise, there are virtually no restrictions. Ex- port proceeds may be retained. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No restrictions are imposed on payments for or proceeds from invisibles, except that payments must not be made to or received from Israel or South Africa. A tax of 20 percent applies to fees and sal- aries paid to individuals and legal entities who are not permanent residents of Djibouti for professional purposes. Capital No restrictions are imposed on inward or outward capital transfers, but payments may not be made to or received from Israel or South Africa. Under the Investment Code of February 13, 1984, enterprises established or expanded to undertake certain spe- cific economic activities are eligible for various tax exemptions. Imports and Import Payments Changes During 1991 Imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Djibouti has a free trade zone in the port of No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 139 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Dominica is the Eastern Carib- bean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Carib- bean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 per US$1. On December 31, 1991, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were EC$2.6949 and EC$2.7084, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Dominica informed the Fund on December 13, 1979 that it formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and applies to all countries outside the ECCB area. The Ministry of Finance has delegated to commercial banks certain of its powers to approve sales of foreign currencies within specified limits. The Ministry of Trade administers import and ex- port arrangements and controls. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of territories par- ticipating in the ECCB Agreement must be made in Eastern Caribbean dollars; those with member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CAR- icoM)2 must be made in the currency of the CAR- ICOM country concerned. Settlements with resi- dents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency that is acceptable to the country where the settlement is being made.3 Foreign Currency Accounts Foreign currency accounts may be operated only with the permission of the Ministry of Finance; such permission is normally confined to major exporters aThe Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Ja- maica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Eastern Caribbean dollar. and foreign nationals not ordinarily resident in Do- minica. The accounts can only be credited with for- eign currencies obtained outside Dominica. Pay- ments from these accounts do not require approval. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited, and all imports originating from the member countries of the former Council for Mutual Economic Assis- tance, Albania, Cambodia, China, and Democratic People's Republic of Korea require a license. The Common External Tariff of CARICOM states is ap- plied to all imports. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon presentation to a commercial bank of docu- mentary evidence of purchase. Advance payments for imports require prior approval from the Ministry of Finance. Payments for Invisibles All settlements overseas require exchange control approval. However, commercial banks have been delegated authority to sell foreign currency to local residents, as specified below: (1) for incidentals, EC$100, subject to a limit of EC$500 a person a year; (2) for each trip outside the area served by the ECCB, EC$3,000, subject to a maximum of two trips in any 12-month period and upon presentation of travel documents; (3) for bona fide business trav- elers, EC$1,000 for each day outside Dominica, pro- vided the total does not exceed EC$30,000 in any 12- month period and upon presentation of travel docu- ments; (4) for overseas travel for medical treatment, EC$1,000 a day up to a maximum of EC$30,000 in any 12-month period, subject to the presentation of a medical certificate stating that the journey is nec- essary and upon presentation of travel documents; (5) for educational expenses, including accommoda- tion, up to EC$15,000 a student in each academic year; and (6) for dependents residing abroad, EC$2,400 in any 12-month period (EC$3,600 for minor or incapacitated dependents). Amounts in excess of specified limits may be ob- tained with approval from the Ministry of Finance. Specific approval from the Ministry of Finance must also be obtained for outward remittances of cash gifts up to EC$1,000 a year to each recipient. Earn- ings of foreign workers and profits/dividends from foreign direct investment may be remitted after set- tlement of all tax or other public liabilities. 140 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICA Ul The exportation of East Caribbean bank notes and coins (other than numismatic coins) by residents and nonresidents traveling to destinations outside the ECCB area is limited to amounts prescribed by the central bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited, and spe- cific licenses are required for the exportation of cer- tain goods to any destination. The conversion of export proceeds to an ECCB currency account is mandatory, except when the exporter has a foreign currency account into which the proceeds may be paid. Exports of bananas are subject to a levy when the export price exceeds a minimum level. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invisibles must be sold to a bank or paid into a foreign currency account. There is no restriction on the importation of foreign bank notes and coins. Capital All outward transfers of capital or profits require exchange control approval. The purchase by resi- dents of foreign currency securities and of real es- tate located abroad is not normally permitted. Capi- tal transfers, such as inheritances, to nonresidents require approval, which is normally granted, sub- ject to the payment of any taxes due. Emigrants leaving Dominica to take up residence outside the ECCB area may transfer up to EC$30,000 from their assets for each family, subject to income tax clearance. Direct investment in Dominica by nonresidents may be made with exchange control approval. The remittance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds from, such investment is permitted, subject to the discharge of any liabilities related to the invest- ment. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for nonresidents to borrow in Dominica. Gold Residents are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Small quan- tities of gold may be imported for industrial pur- poses only with the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Changes During 1991 Imports and Import Payments June 1. The Common External Tariff of CARICOM states was implemented, and quantitative restric- tions on certain imports were removed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Dominican Republic is the Dominican Peso. During January-July 1991, two exchange rates were in operation. The official rate, which was pegged to the U.S. dollar, was applied to exports and essential import transactions, effected through the Central Bank; a freely floating rate, which was determined in the interbank market, was applied to all other transactions. In July 1991, the exchange rate system was unified, and the official rate has been set on the basis of the interbank mar- ket rate of the previous day. On December 31,1991, the buying and selling rates of the Central Bank in terms of the U.S. dollar were RD$12.50 and RD$12.82, respectively, per US$1. A commission equivalent to 15 percent of the f .o .b. value of imports is collected by the Customs Office, and the proceeds are deposited in the Cen- tral Bank for the servicing of external debt.1 In addi- tion, a commission of 2.0 percent is charged on sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is determined by the Monetary Board and is administered by the Central Bank. At the end of 1991, 20 commercial banks (including the state-owned Reserve Bank) were op- erating in the foreign exchange market in the Do- minican Republic. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Goods from the United States that are financed by the U.S. Agency for International Development must be imported under special letters of credit. Settlements with Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uru- guay, and Venezuela may be made through special accounts established under reciprocal credit agree- ments within the framework of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Import payments in currencies other than the U.S. dollar must be made 1 Imports of food, fertilizer, petroleum, medicine, and agri- cultural products are exempted from this commission. through letters of credit. Otherwise, no obligations are imposed on importers, exporters, or other resi- dents regarding the currency to be used for pay- ments to or from nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports of petroleum and other es- sential products, such as medicines, materials for the production of medicines, coal for the use of the electric company, and priority imports for public enterprises, are transacted through the Central Bank at the official rate. Imports on a document- against-payments basis must be denominated in U.S. dollars; for these imports, central bank cer- tification of the use of foreign currency is required for customs clearance. All other imports are trans- acted through the free interbank market, and are subject only to central bank verification of appropri- ate documentation and returned within a period of 48 hours. Most imports are subject to an exchange commission equivalent to 15 percent of the f .o .b. value. In September 1990, the Government established a tariff regime, under which most rates range f rom 5 percent to 35 percent; the regime had not yet been approved by Congress at the end of 1991. The selec- tive consumption tax ranges from 15 percent to 80 percent. Payments for Invisibles All invisible payments may be made freely through commercial banks, subject to documenta- tion requirements. Annual profit remittances can- not exceed the equivalent of 25 percent of the net value of original and additional investment plus reinvestment minus repatriation, duly registered in the Foreign Department of the Central Bank. Nonresident tourists who surrender foreign ex- change to commercial banks upon arrival may re- convert up to 30 percent of the total amount surren- dered (maximum of up to the equivalent of $5,000) upon departure. The exportation of domestic bank notes and coins is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are temporarily prohibited, in- cluding some food products and animal species, unprocessed wood (for environmental protection purposes), and blood (for public health reasons). In 142 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 143 addition, products imported under specified bilat- eral trade agreements are prohibited from being exported under the terms of such agreements. A number of products (such as sugar, molasses, cof- fee, and cocoa) are subject to prior authorization. Export licenses, issued by the Dominican Center for Export Promotion (CEDOPEX), are required for all products. With specified exceptions, exporters must sur- render to the Central Bank through the commercial banks the entire proceeds from exports within 30 days of the date of bill of lading. For the purposes of exchange surrender, declared export prices must equal or exceed the minimum export prices estab- lished by CEDOPEX for certain exports. Firms operating in industrial free zones and deal- ing in ferro-nickel exports are exempt from the ex- change surrender requirements and are required to convert only the foreign exchange needed by them to cover local costs and taxes. Law No. 69 provides for the issuance of tax credit certificates (certificados de abono tributario —CATs) for a value not exceeding 15 percent of the f .o.b. or c . i . f. value of exports; the percentage can be up to 25 per- cent when exports contain a high degree of domes- tic agricultural inputs. The CATs are, in principle, fully negotiable and can be used for the payment of taxes or other obligations to the Government. How- ever, only a limited number of CATs have been issued. Law No. 69 also regulates the system of temporary admission for imports, under which du- ties are waived for any imports used in the manufac- ture of nontraditional products to be exported within a year. A portion of import du t ies paid on raw materials and component par ts used in the production of nontraditional exports is re funded; the percent- age of the r e f u nd is 90 percent for exports contain- ing only imported inputs, 95 percent for exports containing domestic inputs, and 100 percent for exports produced in the industrial f r ee trade zone.2 Expor ters are also eligible for a r e fund of 95 percent of any in ternal tax levied on locally manu fac tu red goods that are exported. Exporters may not extend credit to foreign buyers for more than 90 days f rom the date of shipment w i thout authorization f rom the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds from all invisibles may be sold in the interbank market, except for proceeds originating in transactions with foreigners 2Nontraditional exporters, who qualify under the temporary import regime of Law No. 69, are also fully exempted from payments of import duties. using international credit cards, which must be sold in the Central Bank. The importation of domestic bank notes and coins is prohibited. Capital There are no restrictions on the inward move- ment of capital by either residents or nonresi- dents. However, direct foreign investment is regu- lated by Law No. 861 of July 19, 1978, which created a Directorate of Foreign Investment to ap- prove direct investment requests. Such invest- ments must be registered with the Central Bank. Outward remittances related to investments re- quire the approval of the Central Bank. Foreign debt can be contracted directly by the Central Government, subject to congressional au- thorization. According to Law No. 251 of 1964, new loans by other public and private entities require Monetary Board authorization. According to a set of criteria established by the Monetary Board on November 19, 1981, priority in the approval of new loans is given to borrowings associated with ex- ports, import substitution, and social projects, such as housing and education. Total financial charges on foreign loans are not allowed to exceed the princi- pal international interest rate by more than a certain margin. There are also minimum maturity require- ments according to the type of financing. Since January 23,1985, the Central Bank has pro- vided foreign exchange for the servicing of public external debt at the market rate; the servicing of private external debt is effected through the inter- bank market. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in the Dominican Republic for numismatic pur- poses. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, in the Dominican Republic or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effec ts of a traveler require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities and industrial users. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement January 24. A new exchange system, consisting of an official rate that would apply to all exports and essential imports to be transacted through the Cen- tral Bank and an interbank market in which the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 144 DOMINICAN REPUBLIC exchange rate would be freely determined and to be applied to all other transactions was introduced. The official rate was set at RD$11.70 (buying rate) per US$1, which was about 7 percent more appreci- ated than that in the interbank market. January 24. The official and free interbank market rates were unified, with the official rate to be set on the basis of the interbank market rate of the pre- vious day. The spread between the official and inter- bank rate would be kept within 2 percent. July 7. A foreign exchange commission of 2.5 per- cent was introduced on the sale of foreign exchange. December 19. The foreign exchange commission was lowered to 2 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ecuador is the Ecuadoran Sucre. At present, there are three exchange rates: the offi- cial rate of S/. 390 per US$1, which is used for the accounting purposes of the Central Bank of Ecuador only; the intervention market rate of the Central Bank; and the free market rate. All foreign trade transactions of the private sector, as well as some other private sector foreign exchange transactions (mainly those of the national press and of eligible students abroad), take place on the intervention market of the Central Bank. This market has a single rate but operationally has two segments—one for the public sector (where all public sector transac- tions take place) and the other for the private sector (where a foreign exchange allocation system gov- erns private sector transactions). Private sector transactions that do not take place in the interven- tion market take place in the free market. The inter- vention rate of the Central Bank is adjusted weekly, on the basis of a preannounced peg rate (a weekly depreciation of S/. 3.00 during May 15, 1989- March 5, 1990, and after March 6, 1990, S/. 3.50, against the U.S. dollar).1 The selling rate is set at 2 percent above the buying rate. On December 31, 1991, the exchange rate (averages of buying and selling rates) was S/. 1,270.58 per US$1 in the inter- vention market of the Central Bank, and S/. 1,297.04 per US$1 in the free market. In the public sector segment of the intervention market, the Central Bank is authorized to purchase the foreign exchange proceeds that derive from the following transactions: the f .o .b. value of all public sector exports; all public sector income in foreign currency, including foreign loan disbursements; foreign exchange balances on public sector deposits in foreign currency at the Central Bank (when con- sidered in excess of the normal requirements of each entity); and all other transactions of the Central Bank. The Central Bank is authorized to sell foreign exchange that derives from payments of the follow- ing operations in the public sector segment of the intervention market: the c. & f. value of public sector imports; the transfer of surpluses of foreign oil com- panies operating in Ecuador; purchases of services abroad by the public sector; interest payments and principal amortization in foreign currency of the *In addition, the authorities effect periodic step devaluations. public sector; and all other transactions of the Cen- tral Bank. In the intervention market for the private sector, the Central Bank is authorized to buy 100 percent of the f.o.b. value of all private sector export proceeds and 100 percent of the proceeds from credits granted by multilateral agencies and foreign gov- ernments to the private sector previously autho- rized by the Monetary Board. Twice a week, the Central Bank determines the maximum amount of foreign exchange available (the limit of 90 percent of export proceeds from the private sector was raised to 100 percent in December 1989). It sells this amount for the payment of the c. & f. value of private sector imports; for the foreign exchange re- quired by the national press and by students abroad who have obtained financing from the Ecuadoran Institute for Education Loans; and for the servicing of loans granted by multilateral agencies and gov- ernments or their agencies to Ecuadoran financial institutions in the private sector to finance private investment projects. Requests for foreign exchange have to be submit- ted to the Committee for Foreign Exchange Sales (Comite de Venta de Divisas) through authorized banks, financial companies, or professional organi- zations (Federaciones Nacionales de Camaras), none of which can submit requests for more than 20 percent of the total amount offered at each bi- weekly session. Requests for foreign exchange for import payments can be presented only on the basis of import permits granted at least 60 days before the session. Requests are satisfied according to the chronological order of the date of issuance of the import permits. The amount of foreign exchange received by each participating institution is deter- mined on a pro rata basis, given by the ratio of the total amount offered to the total amount requested multiplied by the amount requested by the institu- tion in question.2 Under transitional arrangements, the Central Bank is obliged to provide foreign exchange at the intervention market rate for the following pay- ments: imports for which permits were granted up to August 11, 1986; the redemption of foreign cur- rency stabilization bonds; the servicing of the pri- vate sector external debt for which the foreign 2Despite the segmentation of the foreign currency market, the limit on foreign exchange available for private sector imports has not been binding in recent years. 145 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 146 ECUADOR exchange was sold to the Central Bank up to Au- gust 11, 1986; profit remittances and capital re- patriation generated by foreign investments for which the foreign currency was sold to the Central Bank up to August 11, 1986; and expenses incurred abroad by students and handicapped persons for which a contract was approved by the Central Bank up to August 11, 1986. To meet obligations arising from import permits granted up to August 11,1986, the Central Bank is authorized to issue foreign cur- rency stabilization bonds, provided the counter- value in sucres has been deposited with the Central Bank and all the requirements for payment abroad have been fulfilled. The maturity of the bonds runs from the date of issue. The Central Bank has issued four stabilization bonds, each amounting to 25 per- cent of its obligation, which carry an interest rate equal to the three-month LIBOR (or equivalent rate in non-U.S. dollar currencies). Most borrowings abroad by the private sector are subject to an exchange tax ranging from 0.5 percent to 2 percent. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Ecuador formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, with effect from August 31, 1970. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Cen- tral Bank. Prescription of Currency Most settlements with Hungary, Poland, and the states of the former U.S.S.R. take place through bilateral accounts. Payments between Ecuador and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Do- minican Republic, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uru- guay, and Venezuela must be made within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Ex- change proceeds from other countries must be re- ceived in convertible currencies. Whenever pos- sible, import payments must be made in the currency stipulated in the import license. Imports and Import Payments Permitted imports are divided into two catego- ries: List I, consisting of priority goods ("Special" Group), essential goods (Group A, consisting of capital goods, inputs for agriculture and industry, and consumer goods with no local substitutes), and semi-essential goods (Group B, consisting of prod- ucts with some local equivalent, except luxury goods); and List II, consisting of luxury goods. All goods not included on these two lists are pro- hibited. Mainly for reasons of industrial, environ- mental, and health protection, certain imports re- quire prior authorization from government minis- tries or agencies. Imports of motor vehicles are pro- hibited, as are antiquities and certain items related to health and national security. Prior import licenses are required for all permit- ted imports, except for books, newspapers, periodicals, printed music, and medicines; spare pa r ts for machinery and automotive vehicles are free of license when valued at $1,500 f .o.b. or less. In addition, the State Petroleum Corporation (Pe- t roecuado r) may, w i thout a license, import sup- plies, materials, and equipment dur ing emergen- cies. Import licenses are issued f ree of charge irrespective of the origin of goods, provided that 80 percent of the import tax has been paid, prior ministerial authorization (when needed) has been obtained, and the insurance has been arranged in Ecuador. All private sector imports are subject to a value-added tax of 10 percent, and all public and private sector imports are sub ject to a service charge of 1 percent of the c. & f. value. There is a temporary du ty - f ree import scheme for inpu ts used in export production. Labor legislation has been modified to enable employers to hire par t- time workers in in-bond plants and to ease the dismissal of workers. Payments for Invisibles All public sector payments for invisibles, includ- ing interest on public debt, are transacted in the intervention market of the Central Bank. Other pay- ments for current invisibles must be settled in the free market. There are no limitations on the amounts of domestic and foreign bank notes that travelers may take out. The arrangement for the refinancing of private external debt involves dif- ferent implicit exchange rates arising from the im- position of charges on the official rate to compensate for possible exchange losses. These rates apply to the refinancing of private external credits contracted or endorsed by the domestic financial system or directly by the private sector. They also apply to the payment of interest on loan proceeds sold to the Central Bank under the refinancing scheme of 1983 (Resolution No. 1202). Interest, commissions, and other financial charges on foreign loans to petro- leum companies may not exceed the equivalent of 2 percentage points above the interest rates in the creditor country. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR 147 Residents and nonresidents traveling abroad by air must pay a tax of $25 for each exit visa. Airline tickets for foreign travel are taxed at 10 percent, and tickets for travel by ship are taxed at the rate of 8 per- cent for departure from Ecuador and 4 percent for the return trip. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses; licenses are issued freely w i thout fees subject to guarantee and may be provisional (with a validity of 30 days) or defini- tive (with a validity of 90 days). There is a list of prohibited exports and a list of exports sub ject to quota ("exportable surplus"), reviewed quar ter ly by the relevant ministries. All goods not on these lists are f ree ly exportable. All export proceeds must be surrendered in the intervention market of the Central Bank not later than (1) 15 days f rom the date of shipment for exports against cash pay- ment; (2) 30 days f rom the date of shipment for bananas, provided that sales were made on an installment basis; (3) 60 days f rom the date of shipment for coffee beans, cocoa beans, fish, shrimp, and other unprocessed seafood prod- ucts, provided that the sale was made on an in- stallment basis; (4) 90 days f rom the date of ship- ment for other primary products, provided that the sale was made on an installment basis; and (5) 180 days f rom the date of shipment for prod- ucts not covered in (l)-(4), provided that the sale was made on an installment basis. Those who disregard the above surrender requirements are subject to penalty, and the Central Bank is autho- rized to carry out the inspections it considers nec- essary to ver ify the proper surrender of export proceeds. However, the Central Bank is autho- rized to purchase foreign exchange in anticipation of f u t u re exports, within a maximum period of 150 days a f ter shipment (with exceptions made for exports of co f fee grain, shrimp, and fish meal) and within a maximum period of 80 days for other produc ts. In November 1991, a scheme by which exporters were compensated for sucre devalua- tions occurring between the time of foreign ex- change surrender and export shipment was elimi- na ted. The surrender requirement does not apply to exports e f fec ted under authorized bar ter trans- actions. However, barter transactions require the prior approval of the Ministry of Industry, Com- merce, Integration, and Fisheries; they must be registered with the Central Bank and are subject to specific limitations. Minimum reference prices are established for exports of bananas, coffee, fish products, cocoa, and semifinished produc ts of co- coa to help ensure that exchange proceeds are fu l ly su r rende red. Payment of foreign exchange for petroleum exports will be made on the basis of the sale prices stated in the sale contracts and must be surrendered within 20 days of the date of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold in the free market, except for interest income on foreign reserves of the Central Bank and all invisible re- ceipts of the public sector, which are transacted in the intervention market. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign or domestic bank notes. Capital Capital may freely enter or leave the country through the free market, except capital in the petro- leum sector, which must be transacted through the intervention market. Most borrowings abroad by the private sector are subject to an exchange tax ranging from 0.5 percent to 2 percent. New foreign direct investments do not require prior authorization from the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, Integration, and Fisheries unless speci- fically stated. Authorization from the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, Integration, and Fisheries is required when the foreign investment involves a stock trans- fer from a resident to a nonresident or between nonresidents. Authorization from this Ministry is also needed for new investments in public and fi- nancial services. The latter also require the authori- zation of the Superintendence of Banks. Repatriations of capital and remittances of profits on foreign investments are handled through the free exchange market in respect of those invest- ments that have been effected through this market. The limits on the repatriation of profit remittances in all sectors were abolished in 1991. All foreign loans granted to the Government or to official entities, or guaranteed by them, whether or not they involve the disbursement of foreign ex- change, are subject to prior approval from the Mon- etary Board. Suppliers' credits of up to one year's maturity are exempt from this requirement. The request for such authorization, to be submitted to the Minister of Finance and the Monetary Board, must be accompanied by detailed information on the loan contract and on the investment projects it is intended to finance. In examining the request, the Monetary Board considers the effects that the loan and the related investment may have on the balance of payments and on monetary aggregates. For pub- lic sector entities, the projects to be financed must ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 148 ECUADOR be included in the General Development Plan or receive a favorable ruling from the National Council for Development (CONADE), and at least 20 percent of the total cost of the project must be covered by domestic funds. This requirement does not apply to loans granted by international organizations or na- tional development agencies. New external credits with a maturity of over one year contracted by the private sector, either directly or through the domes- tic financial system, must be authorized and regis- tered by the Central Bank. Gold The private sector is now authorized to import and export gold and to buy and sell gold in the domestic market. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement September 26. The preferential exchange rate for imports of medicines and inputs for their manufac- ture was eliminated. Imports and Import Payments February 14 (and November 6). The number of pro- hibited imports was reduced to 53 tariff no- menclatures from 900, and the number of items subject to prior authorization was reduced to 830 from 1,400. Exports and Export Proceeds November 22. A scheme by which exporters were compensated for sucre devaluations occurring be- tween the time of foreign exchange surrender and shipment was eliminated. Capital June 13. The limits on profit remittances were abolished. Gold May 31. The restrictions on private sector imports and exports of gold and on domestic sales were eliminated. However, exporters, importers, and traders are required to register their transactions with the Central Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Egypt is the Egyptian Pound; the U.S. dollar is used as the intervention currency. From May 11, 1987 to February 26, 1991, the ex- change system consisted of three exchange mar- kets. The first exchange market (the central bank pool) handled, on the receipts side, exports of petro- leum, cotton, and rice, Suez Canal dues, and Sumed pipeline royalties; and on the payments side, imports of certain essential subsidized foodstuffs, subsidized insecticides and fertilizers, and specified public sector capital transactions in- cluding public sector external debt-service pay- ments. The second exchange market (the commer- cial bank pool or new bank market) consisted of all authorized commercial banks and three travel agen- cies. The supply of foreign exchange in this market derived mainly from workers' remittances, tourist expenditures, and specified public and private sec- tor export earnings. On the payments side, this market provided foreign exchange for specified public sector visible and invisible transactions, all private sector imports, and certain private sector invisible payments primarily related to imports. The third market (the outside banks' free market) covered transactions involving residents' holdings of foreign exchange deposits in free accounts with domestic banks and an unofficial market in Port Said, a free trade zone. At the end of June 1991, the central bank pool rate was LE 1.1 per US$1. On July 1, 1991, the central bank pool exchange rate was adjusted to LE 2 per US$1. With the introduction of the new exchange system on February 27, 1991, the following three exchange rates came into effect: the central bank pool rate of LE 2 per US$1, the primary market exchange rate of LE 3.01 per US$1, which was man- aged to remain within 5 percent of the free market exchange rate, and the free market exchange rate. At the end of fiscal year 1990/91 (June 30,1991), the central bank pool rate and the related subaccount arrangement were discontinued, and henceforth central bank pool transactions were undertaken at the primary market exchange rate. On October 8, 1991, the primary and free market exchange rates were unified into a new free market rate at LE 3.31 per US$1. At the same time, an administered ex- change rate of LE 3.29 per US$1 and the related subaccounts arrangement were established for cer- tain public sector transactions. On November 28, 1991, this administered exchange rate and the re- lated subaccount arrangement were discontinued, and the free market exchange rate was applied to all transactions. On December 31,1991, the free market exchange rate was LE 3.332 per US$1. The exchange rates for 16 other convertible currencies1 are based on the cross rates of these currencies against the U.S. dollar quoted in London. Under the exchange reform of February 1991, nonbank foreign exchange dealers have been per- mitted to operate in the free market. Nonbank dealers may buy and sell domestic and foreign means of payment (bank notes, coins, and traveler's checks), including purchases and sales on their own account. In addition, authorized nonbank dealers may broker any foreign exchange operation and transaction, except transfers to and from the coun- try, for the account of their bank or nonbank customers, whether resident or nonresident. At present, nonbank dealers are not permitted to transact for their own account any type of foreign exchange transactions. A number of special exchange rates are also in effect. At the end of December 1991, a rate of LE 3.0 per £1 applied to visible trade transactions effected under the bilateral payments agreement with the former U.S.S.R., and a rate of LE 1.30 per US$1 applied to transactions effected under the bilateral payments agreement with Sudan. In addition, a rate of LE 0.3913 per US$1 is being used for the liquidation of accounts related to past bilateral pay- ments agreements. Authorized commercial banks are permitted to conduct forward foreign exchange transactions for their own account. No prior approval by the Central Bank is required, and the banks are free to deter- mine the rates applied for forward transactions. Administration of Control A foreign exchange budget is established an- nually for the Government and the public au- thorities. Banks are authorized to execute foreign exchange transactions, within the framework of a general authorization, without obtaining specific 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 149 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 150 EGYPT exchange control approval. The Ministry of Econ- omy and Foreign Trade supervises imports and ex- ports by the public sector. Certain imports and ex- ports are reserved for public sector entities. Port Said City is accorded the status of a free zone. Ar- rears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Egypt does not have bilateral payments agreements may be made in any convertible currency, in Egyp- tian pounds, or in a convertible currency to the debit or credit of the appropriate free account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below), or in any other manner prescribed or permitted by the foreign ex- change regulations. Settlements with countries with which Egypt has bilateral payments agreements are made according to the terms of these agreements.2 However, pay- ments to such countries for imports and various other purposes not covered by these agreements may be made in convertible currency. Certain settle- ments with countries with which indemnity agree- ments concerning compensation for nationalized property are in force are made through special ac- counts in Egyptian pounds with the Central Bank of Egypt. Suez Canal dues are expressed in SDRs and may be paid by debiting canal dues accounts, ad- vance payment Canal dues accounts, or free ac- counts in foreign currency. Canal dues accounts must be opened in foreign currency, and balances are transferable abroad. Nonresident Accounts In addition to the special accounts related to Egypt's bilateral payments agreements, the indem- nity agreements concluded with certain countries, and Canal dues accounts, there are three types of accounts: free accounts, D accounts, and noncon- vertible capital accounts. Free accounts may be opened in the name of any entity other than the Egyptian Government, public authorities, and public sector entities. They may be opened in either foreign currency or Egyptian pounds; the latter are freely convertible. Free ac- counts in foreign currency may be credited with transfers of convertible currencies from abroad and transfers from other similar accounts. Foreign cur- rencies from funds transferred from a free account in Egyptian pounds, and interest earned on these 2As of December 31, 1991, Egypt maintained operative bilat- eral payments agreements with Sudan and the former U.S.S.R. accounts may be debited for transfers abroad, trans- fers to other similar accounts, withdrawals in for- eign bank notes to the owner or others, transfers to free accounts in Egyptian pounds, and for any pay- ment in Egypt, including those for exports and for bank charges and commissions. D accounts may be opened in the name of any resident of a country with which Egypt has a bilat- eral payments agreement. The accounts must be designated by the name of the partner country con- cerned. These accounts may be credited with re- ceipts under the respective payments agreement and with the equivalent of transfers authorized from the country of the account holder. They may be debited for transfers to the country of the account holder and for local payments (including those for Egyptian exports) authorized by the implementing regulations and within the scope of the relevant payments agreement. Nonconvertible capital accounts may be credited with any payment of a capital nature to a foreigner living outside Egypt that is not remittable under the exchange control regulations. Banks may debit these accounts for charges legally due from the ac- count holder. Accounts held by individuals may be debited up to a limit of LE 10,000 a year for use by the account holder. Accounts held by juridical per- sons may be debited for settlement of outstanding obligations to the Egyptian authorities; they may also be used for payments to residents for services rendered, up to a limit of LE 20,000 a year for ex- penses incurred in connection with the activities or residence of the holder's employees in Egypt. Resident Accounts In addition to free accounts, which may be opened by both nonresidents and residents, resi- dents may hold foreign exchange retention accounts and capital and working accounts. Foreign exchange retention accounts may be opened in the name of authorized recipients and credited with the proceeds from certain exports of goods and invisible receipts. Public sector companies may transfer these funds to other public sector com- panies within the same industrial group or sell them to the authorized banks at the commercial bank rate. Private sector exporters may debit these accounts for visible and invisible payments related to their economic activity or sell the exchange in the commercial bank market, but may not transfer these funds to free accounts. Holders of export retention accounts in the private sector are entitled —without the need to submit any documentation —to use up to 25 percent of the proceeds of their exports for financing travel expenses for the exporter or his ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT 151 employees, for other invisible payments related to the account holder's activity, and for settling re- patriation requirements. Unused balances in reten- tion accounts owned by the public sector, unless exempted, must be sold periodically to the banking system. If the balances in the retention accounts owned by the public sector entities originate from invisible proceeds, unused balances must be sur- rendered monthly. In addition, balances in these accounts must be fully used by the account holder before authorized transactions can be effected by the public or private sector. Capital and working accounts may be opened by companies covered by Law No. 230 (of July 1989). These accounts may be credited with transfers from abroad, advance payments and long-term rents in foreign exchange, loans, funds purchased from the free bank market, and funds purchased from the free accounts to meet the project requirement; they may be debited for payments by the account holder (for example, imports, profit remittances, interest, other invisibles, and financing of local expendi- tures). Holders of these accounts are not permitted to use the commercial bank market resources before the balances in their accounts are fully used. Imports and Import Payments The Supreme Council for the Planning of Foreign Trade formulates a long-term policy for exports and imports, controls the annual export and import plan, and supervises the execution of the foreign exchange budget. Imports under payments agree- ments and imports of specified goods from any source are reserved for the public sector. Private sector trade with payments agreement countries is permitted in convertible currencies in items not cov- ered by trade protocol agreements. Imports by the Government and the public au- thorities are effected within the provisions of the foreign exchange budget. For purposes of the for- eign exchange budget, the economy is divided into several sectors (agriculture, industry, and transpor- tation). The annual foreign exchange budget provides for a specific quota for each sector, and the authorities in charge of each sector decide on the goods to be imported and the entities that are to import them within that quota. All imports fi- nanced by the Central Bank are effected at the free market rate, with the exception of imports under bilateral payments agreements, which are effected at a special, more appreciated, rate (except for im- ports from the former U.S.S.R. (see section on Ex- change Arrangement, above)). Import payments in foreign exchange by the pri- vate sector are effected through the commercial banks, licensed nonbank dealers, Port Said, or through importers7 own foreign exchange re- sources. All commodities not included on the pro- hibited list of 105 items can be freely imported. Certain goods (for example, imports financed with bilateral and multilateral assistance, components imported by licensed local manufacturers and as- sembly units, and free zone imports) are exempted from the negative list, and items on the negative list may be imported with the approval of the Ministry of Economy. On application to open a letter of credit, private sector importers (including com- panies covered by Law No. 230) must lodge with an authorized bank a prior import deposit at the rate of 10 percent or 20 percent in domestic or foreign cur- rency, depending on whether imports are brought in for own use or for resale. These deposits have to be financed from the importers' own resources and are remunerated at an interest rate agreed upon by the customer and the bank. Banks are allowed to finance all or part of the remaining 90 percent or 80 percent, respectively. When suppliers' credit fa- cilities are available, the importer may not be re- quired to cover the remaining percentage of the letter of credit, depending on the conditions of the suppliers' credit agreement. For purposes of customs tar iffs, products are clas- sified under 12 groups. The rates range from 5 per- cent to 100 percent (with several exceptions). The weighted average rate was 25-30 percent in 1991. Payments for Invisibles Banks are authorized to provide foreign exchange for all invisible payments by the Government, the public authorities, and the public sector, within the framework of the foreign exchange budget and in accordance with current rules and regulations. Banks and other agencies authorized to deal in for- eign exchange may sell without any restriction for- eign currencies for payments for invisibles to indi- viduals, private and public sector units and companies, and companies established under the domestic investment regime, in accordance with the provisions of the Investment Law. Only Egyptian nationals, foreigners who have lived in the country for a continuous period of five years, and foreigners permitted to reside in Egypt for a period of ten years can purchase airline tickets (one-way or round-trip originating in Egypt) under certain conditions in Egyptian pounds. With this exception, all others must purchase tickets with con- vertible currencies or with Egyptian pounds con- verted at the commercial bank exchange rate. Persons traveling abroad are entitled to carry for- eign bank notes and other instruments of payment ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 152 EGYPT in foreign currency without limitation provided that the amounts are (1) purchased from authorized banks or from authorized nonbank dealers in foreign ex- change and recorded on the passport by the selling agency; (2) stated in the customs declaration upon arrival from the most recent trip abroad; (3) drawn from free accounts in foreign currency recorded on the passport by one of the authorized banks; (4) shown as a deduction from foreign currency set aside accounts; or (5) in bank notes or traveler's checks up to $500 or its equivalent in foreign currency, in which case no record in the passport is required. .Exports and Export Proceeds Apart from commodities required for the national economy that may be restricted, exports may be made without license. Exports of many products are organized and supervised by foreign trade com- mittees. Cotton, rice, and petroleum are exported by the public sector only, and their proceeds must be repatriated within three months. Proceeds from exports of books, newspapers, and other publications must be repatriated as soon as they are received and, in any case, within a period of not more than five years from the date of shipment. Pro- ceeds from all other exports must be repatriated within one year of the date of shipment. Proceeds from exports of other products may be fully retained in foreign exchange retention accounts. Proceeds from exports by both private and public sectors to bilateral payments agreement countries are obtained in Egyptian pounds, in accordance with the provi- sions of the relevant agreement. All departing foreigners who are carrying on their person gifts valued at more than LE 250 are required to show evidence that they exchanged foreign ex- change equivalent to the excess value at an authorized bank. The corresponding limit on excess value ap- plied to Egyptian nationals is LE 100, and that for purchases left behind with Khan El Khalil merchants is LE 500 (provided that they are exported within three months of the date of the traveler's departure and that proof is provided that he visited Egypt). Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange earned abroad by persons and juridical entities other than the Egyptian Govern- ment, public authorities, and public sector entities may be held abroad or retained indefinitely in free accounts. Receipts from tourism must be surrendered to the banking system. However, hotels are allowed to re- tain 25 percent of their foreign exchange earnings in their working accounts. Hotels operating under Law No. 230 are allowed to retain all of their foreign exchange earnings in their working accounts. With the approval of the Ministry of Economy and For- eign Trade, hotels other than those operating under Law No. 230 may also retain an additional 15 per- cent of their foreign exchange earnings to meet their debt-service obligations. Travel agencies belonging to the private sector are allowed to retain 10 percent of their foreign exchange earnings, and 100 percent if they operate under Law No. 230; Misr Travel is allowed to retain 25 percent. Other invisible earnings by public sector entities may be retained to the extent of 10 percent of the total; authorization to retain more or exemption from periodic surrender requirements must be approved by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade. Cer- tain travel in Egypt by foreigners may be financed from various special accounts, such as those under indemnity agreements with certain countries. Persons arriving in Egypt from abroad may im- port up to LE 100 in Egyptian bank notes and are permitted to bring in, and to use locally, unlimited amounts in foreign exchange. Capital Transfers of funds by foreign nationals leaving the country permanently, by emigrants, and by accrued alimony beneficiaries living abroad (within the limits prescribed by the pertinent legal provisions) are not restricted. Imports and exports of securities and trans- fers related to their purchase or sale must be effected through authorized banks. Securities dealers regis- tered at the stock market of Cairo and Alexandria are authorized to act as intermediaries in property trans- fer operations related to these securities both inside and outside Egypt. Foreign exchange may be released in order to transfer the amounts requested by govern- ment units, public agencies, and public sector com- panies to pay for investments abroad, and to pay their share of capital in foreign exchange projects inside the country, with the approval of the responsible au- thorities and in conformity with the prevailing laws and regulations. The total cash assets from estates accruing to foreigners living abroad may be deposited in capital nontransferable accounts to be opened with autho- rized banks. The net shares of the heirs of foreigners living abroad may be deposited in nontransferable capital accounts. Authorized banks may pay from such nontransferable capital accounts legal ex- penses accruing against the holder of accounts opened in the names of natural or juridical persons up to a maximum of LE 10,000 each calendar year. In addition to settlement of expenses and fees for local ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT 153 services and government claims, amounts may be paid from these accounts in settlement of expenses related to the activities or stay of employees of the juridical person in Egypt, up to a maximum of LE 20,000 each calendar year. Payments for real estate and land which for- eigners are allowed to own must be made in convert- ible currencies. Proceeds from sales of property owned in Egypt by foreigners or their heirs must be deposited in a special capital account in the name of the foreign seller at an authorized bank. The autho- rized bank may transfer funds abroad from the ac- count, but the transfer must be limited to the amount of foreign exchange units that was pre- viously transferred and surrendered in return for Egyptian pounds at the time of the acquisition of the property, plus 5 percent of the value of the property for each year following the first five years of owner- ship until the property was sold; afterwards, up to a maximum of LE 50,000 a year may be transferred. The ratio of foreign currency liabilities to foreign currency assets of authorized commercial banks is subject to a maximum limit of 105 percent, and the difference between foreign currency liabilities and foreign currency assets is subject to a limit of 15 per- cent of individual banks' capital. (Although banks are encouraged to comply with these requirements, the applicable limits will not become mandatory until June 30, 1992.) Gold Banks are not authorized to deal or speculate (for their own or their customers' account) in precious metals. The importation of precious metals and stones for industrial and local market requirements is regulated. The exportation of gold and silver fab- rics may be permitted, provided that the sales pro- ceeds are repatriated in convertible currencies. Travelers are permitted to take out and bring in their gold jewelry up to LE 20,000; a security acceptable to the Customs Department is required for such ob- jects in excess of LE 2,000. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement February 27. A new exchange system consisting of a free exchange market, a primary exchange market, and a central bank pool rate was introduced. The exchange rate in the free market would be set freely by market forces, and the exchange rate in the primary market would be managed so that it would not devi- ate from the exchange rate in the free exchange mar- ket by more than 5 percent. The central bank pool rate was set at LE 2 per US$1. The difference between the central bank pool rate and the primary exchange mar- ket rate would be accounted for through subaccounts in the profit and loss accounts on foreign exchange operations of the Central Bank of Egypt. June 30. The central bank pool rate and the subac- count arrangement were discontinued, and central bank pool transactions were undertaken at the pri- mary market exchange rate. October 8. The primary and free market exchange rates were unified. At the same time, an admin- istered exchange rate of LE 3.29 per US$1 and the related subaccount arrangement were established for certain public sector transactions. November 28. The administered exchange rate of LE 3.29 per US$1 and the related subaccount ar- rangement were discontinued, and the free market exchange rate was applied to all transactions. Administration of Control February 27. The foreign exchange budget system ceased to be used for public enterprises. Resident Accounts February 26. Import accounts in foreign exchange were abolished. Imports and Import Payments May 15. The requirement that letters of credit be opened for all imports was abolished. May 30. The advanced import deposit rate for imports that are settled with letters of credit was reduced to 10 percent from 35 percent in respect of imports for own use and to 20 percent in respect of imports for resale. May 30. The minimum and maximum tariff rates were set at 5 percent and 100 percent, respectively, with a few exceptions. Payments for Invisibles February 27. The amount of Egyptian bank notes that could be taken out of the country was increased to LE 100 from LE 20. Exports and Export Proceeds February 27. The requirement that 50 percent of proceeds from exports of peanuts, onions, garlic, potatoes, citrus fruits, live goats and sheep, fish, and molasses must be sold to the commercial banks was abolished. October 8. The Government, Suez Canal au- thorities, Sumed, the Egyptian Petroleum Corpora- tion, and cotton and rice exporters were no longer required to sell their foreign exchange receipts ex- clusively to the Central Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR (Position on December 32, 1991) Exchange Arrangement Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts The currency of El Salvador is the Salvadoran Colon. El Salvador maintains a unified floating ex- change rate system under which commercial banks and exchange houses are free to purchase and sell foreign exchange for authorized transactions at rates determined by supply and demand conditions in the market. The Central Reserve Bank establishes weekly the exchange rate applicable to transactions between the Central Reserve Bank and the public sector, to foreign exchange surrendered by coffee exporters to the Central Reserve Bank, and to the calculation of tax obligations. This exchange rate is the simple average of the exchange rates set by commercial banks and exchange houses during the previous week. In addition, the Central Reserve Bank may purchase or sell foreign exchange to com- mercial banks at the rate prevailing in the market at the time of the transaction. On December 31, 1991, the Central Reserve Bank's buying and selling ex- change rates were C 8.08 and C 8.13, respectively, per US$1, the average rate of commercial banks was C 8.06 per US$1, and the average rate of exchange houses was C 8.05 per US$1. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official, commercial banking, or exchange houses sectors. On November 6, 1946, El Salvador notified the Fund that it was prepared to formally accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is exercised by the Central Reserve Bank in accordance with its general directives. Authorization for all private sector im- ports and invisible payments is delegated to the commercial banks and exchange houses. Exports of a number of products require licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy, subject to agree- ment by the Ministry of Agriculture. The Sal- vadoran Coffee Council issues permits freely to pri- vate sector traders to conduct external or domestic trade in coffee. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Settlements are usually made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Both residents and nonresidents may maintain deposit accounts in foreign currency with autho- rized banks. Balances on these accounts may be sold to the commercial banks or used to make payments abroad without restriction. Transfers of funds be- tween these accounts are also not restricted. The commercial banks are required to submit periodic reports to the Central Reserve Bank on the use of such accounts. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and are required for only a few items, including airplanes, firearms, ammunition, military equipment, dynamite, cotton for industrial use, ju te sacks, skins, leather, some chemical and phar- maceutical products, coffee for seeding, sugar, and saccharin. Imports from the member countries of the Cen- tral American Common Market (CACM) can be fi- nanced by sight drafts, or letters of credit with unre- stricted maturity, or direct payments. Imports from countries outside the CACM that apply discrimina- tory restrictions against exports from El Salvador must be paid for before customs clearance, with the exception of industrial raw materials, which may be paid for within three years. Authorization for private sector import payments is delegated to the commercial banks and exchange houses. Payments for imports by the public sector are made by the Central Reserve Bank, which is also responsible for all official bilateral lines of credit and lines of credit. Import tariffs range from 5 percent to 20 percent, with some luxury items subject to rates of up to 30 percent. Payments for Invisibles Restrictions on payments for invisibles of a per- sonal na tu re (that is, medical trea tmen t, study abroad, and foreign travel) were eliminated in De- cember 1990, and the au thor i ty to grant foreign exchange for expenses relating to foreign travel and study abroad is delegated to the commercial banks and exchange houses. Travelers may not take out more than C 200 in domestic bank notes and coins. 154 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR 155 Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required except for certain foods tuffs and other items for which the authorities wish to ensure an adequate local supply. An export registration certificate from the Central Reserve Bank is required for all exports exceeding an f .o .b. value of $5,000; exports requiring a certificate of origin or a health certificate, however, must be regis- tered irrespective of the value. Export proceeds f rom coffee are required to be surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank within 40 days of the issuance of the export registration certificate; proceeds f rom exports of all other goods must be surrendered to the commercial banks within 120 days of the issuance of the export registration certificate. The terms for export re- ceipts on a collection basis normally must not ex- ceed 30 days a f ter the issuance of the export regis- tration certificate. Exporters of nontraditional produc ts to markets outside the Central American market receive a drawback of taxes paid on imported raw materials equivalent to 8 percent of the f .o .b. value of ex- ports in the form of certificates. These certificates may be used for payments of direct or indirect taxes. Exports of coffee from the 1991/92 crop are subject to an export tax of 25 percent, which is applied to prices exceeding $55 a quintal.1 Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles in excess of $5,000 must be surrendered to an authorized com- mercial bank. Travelers may bring in C 200 in do- mestic bank notes and coins; this limit is, however, subject to modification to facilitate border trade with other Central American countries. Capital All exchange receipts resulting from capital trans- actions must be surrendered to the monetary au- thorities, including direct and indirect foreign in- vestment. The entry of capital with a maturity of more than one year in the form of foreign invest- ment must be registered with the Ministry of Econ- omy. Registration ensures (1) free remittance of net profits on foreign capital invested in industrial en- terprises, enterprises engaged in the extraction of nonrenewable natural resources, and tourist enter- prises; (2) remittance of net profits of enterprises lOr\e quintal equals 46 kilograms. engaged in other activities up to a limit of 10 percent a year of the registered capital (larger amounts may be authorized in special cases by the Ministry of Economy); (3) repatriation of the proceeds from the total or partial liquidation of the enterprises (after payment of taxes) in proportion to the participation of foreign capital in the total capital; (4) remittance of the sales proceeds of shares and other instru- ments representing investments or participations, including capital gains; and (5) payment of interest and amortization as determined at the time of regis- tration. In the case of (3) and (4), in addition to approval from the Central Reserve Bank, prior ap- proval from the Ministry of Economy is also required. Payments abroad representing capital transfers require exchange licenses. Prior approval from the Central Reserve Bank is required for outward remit- tances of interest and amortization on external loans. Foreign loans with a maturity of up to one year must be authorized by the Central Reserve Bank, while foreign loans with a maturity of more than one year must be authorized by the Ministry of Economy. Decree No. 279 of March 27, 1969 sets certain minimum capital requirements for businesses that are owned by foreign nationals and for those in which foreign nationals have a shareholding inter- est. For purposes of this decree, foreign nationals are defined as persons who are not citizens of one of the five CACM member countries. Gold Gold coins in denominations of C 25, C 50, C 100, and C 200 have been issued as legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold and ac- quire gold coins in El Salvador for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry require li- censes issued by the Central Reserve Bank; such licenses are granted for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and indus- trial users. In practice, imports of nonmonetary unworked gold are made only by jewelers' cooper- atives acting on behalf of their members and other users for dental purposes. Changes During 1991 May 16. El Salvador became a contracting party to the GATT. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 156 EL SALVADOR Imports and Import Payments Capital July 3. The maximum import tariff rate was lowered to 30 percent from 50 percent. August 1. Capital transactions were liberalized, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Equatorial Guinea is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF1 per F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs be- tween the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 50 per F 1, free of commission. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris ex- change market. A commission of 0.50 percent is levied on transfers to countries that are not mem- bers of the BEAC, except transfers in respect of central and local government operations, payments for imports covered by a duly issued license domiciled with a bank, scheduled repayments on loans properly obtained abroad, travel allowances paid by the Government and its agencies for official missions, and payments of reinsurance premiums. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, Equa- torial Guinea's exchange control measures generally do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas depart- ments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvbire, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all pay- ments to these countries may be made freely, but all financial transfers of more than CFAF 500,000 to countries of the Operations Account Area must be declared to the authorities for statistical purposes. All other countries are considered foreign coun- tries. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate General of Exchange Control (ONCC) in the Ministry of Finance. Exchange transactions relating to all countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries —that is, authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Because Equatorial Guinea is an Operations Ac- count country, settlements with France (as de- fined above), Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspon- dent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French f rancs through for- eign accounts in f ranc s. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on those applied in France. The principal nonresident accounts are foreign accounts in francs. BEAC bank notes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Equatorial Guinea by the Bank of France or the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) may be credited freely to foreign accounts in francs. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom South Afr ica are prohibited. All other imports valued at more than CFAF 50,000 are subject to license, but licenses are issued freely. All import transactions whose value exceeds CFAF 50,000 must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Import transactions by residents involving goods for use outside Equatorial Guinea must be domiciled with a bank in the country of final desti- nation. Settlements for imports effected under an import license benefit from the authorization of un- interrupted transfer given to the authorized banks by the Ministry of Finance. 1The CFA franc circulating in Equatorial Guinea is issued by the Bank of Central African States (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, and Gabon. Payments for Invisibles Payments in excess of CFAF 500,000 for invis- ibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and 157 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 158 EQUATORIAL GUINEA the Operations Account countries require prior declaration but are perm i t ted freely; those to other countries are sub ject to the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Payments for invisibles re- lated to trade are permitted free ly when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accru- ing to nonresidents in the fo rm of profits, divi- dends, and royalties are also perm i t ted free ly when the basic transaction has been approved. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a person a trip; any foreign ex- change remaining a f t er their re tu rn to Equatorial Guinea must be surrendered. For business travel, the corresponding allocation is the equivalent of CFAF 15,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 350,000 in bills a trip. Travelers must pre- sent certificates of their activity and permission from their enterprise to travel. Additional alloca- tions may be allowed. The t ran s fer of rent f rom real proper ty owned in Equatorial Guinea by foreign nationals is permit- ted up to a limit equivalent to 50 percent of the income declared for taxation purposes, net of tax. Remittances for current repair and management of real property abroad are to be limited to the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 every two or three years. The transfer of the salary of a foreigner working in Equatorial Guinea will be permitted upon presentation of the appropr ia te pay voucher as well as justification of expenses, provided that the t rans fer takes place within three months of the pay period concerned. Except in the case of for- eigners working in Equatorial Guinea tem- porarily, payments of insurance premiums to for- eign countries up to CFAF 50,000 are permitted; larger amoun ts may be authorized by the ONCC. Resident and nonresident travelers to countries outside the Operations Account Area may take out up to CFAF 50,000 in BE AC bank notes. Trav- elers to other countries of the Operations Account Area may, subject to prior declaration, take out any amount in BE AC bank notes. Nonresident travelers may take out bank notes and coins up to the amount they declared on en- try, or up to CFAF 50,000 if they made no declaration. countries are subject to domiciliation requirements for the appropriate documents. Proceeds from ex- ports to all countries must be repatriated within 30 days of the payment date stipulated in the sales contract. Payments for exports must be made within 30 days of the arrival date of the merchandise at its destination. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected within a month of the due date and surrendered within a month of collection if received in foreign currency. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of coun- tries outside the Operations Account Area. Capital Capital movements between Equatorial Guinea and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control. Capital transfers to all other countries re- quire exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are freely permitted.2 Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold jewelry in Equatorial Guinea. They must have the approval of the Directorate of Mines to hold gold in any other form. Such approval is not normally given, as there are no industrial users in Equatorial Guinea. Newly mined gold must be declared to the Directorate of Mines, which authorizes either its exportation or its sale in the domestic market. Ex- ports are allowed only to France. Imports and ex- ports of gold require prior authorization from the Directorate of Mines and the Minister of Finance, which is seldom granted for imports. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Export transactions valued at CFAF 50,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exports to all Regulations on capital transactions, such as the sale of foreign securities in Equatorial Guinea or direct investments, have been prepared and are pending approval. The authorities are also in the process of drafting legislation aimed at stimulating foreign investment in the agricultural, forestry, construction, public works, mining, and industrial equipment maintenance sectors. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA 159 on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) im- ports and exports of manufactured articles contain- F . r e ,, , , 11 r -n j ' ing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt im- ports of gold are subject to customs declaration. J Changes During 1991 „ , , T . .r, Payments for Invisibles December 1. A new regulation governing remit- tances by expatriate workers was introduced. J ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ethiopia is the Ethiopian Birr, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at the official rate of Br 2.07 per US$1. Buy- ing and selling rates for certain other currencies are also officially posted; daily quotations by the National Bank of Ethiopia (central bank) are set on the basis of the official rate for the U.S. dollar and the previous day's closing rate of the currency concerned against the U.S. dollar in London. The National Bank does not deal with the public; its transactions in U.S. dollars with the authorized dealers take place at the official rate. Authorized dealers must observe the official rate for the U.S. dollar and prescribed commission charges, which accrue to the National Bank, of 0.50 percent buying and 1.50 percent selling; in addi- tion, they are authorized, but not obliged, to levy service charges for their own account of up to 0.25 percent buying and 0.75 percent selling and, for currencies other than the U.S. dollar, to include the margin charges applied by the correspondents abroad. In practice, the authorized charges are usu- ally levied. These commissions are applied also to the National Bank's dealings with the Government and certain public sector entities. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized dealers require the approval of the Na- tional Bank to undertake forward exchange transac- tions. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control All transactions in foreign exchange must be car- ried out through authorized dealers under the con- trol of the National Bank. All payments abroad re- quire licenses issued by the Exchange Controller, whose office is a department of the National Bank. All exports are licensed by the Exchange Controller to ensure the surrender of the foreign exchange proceeds, and shipments require permits issued by that office. The Minister of Trade has statutory au- thority to prohibit, restrict, or regulate imports and exports. Arrears are maintained with respect to ex- ternal payments. Prescription of Currency Outgoing payments are normally made in con- vertible foreign exchange appropriate to the coun- try of the recipient or in U.S. dollars. The net pro- ceeds of exports must be received in a freely con- vertible foreign currency or in any other acceptable foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may, subject to exchange control approval, open nonresident accounts either in birr or in foreign currencies at authorized banks. De- posits to these accounts can be made only in foreign exchange. Balances on nonresident foreign cur- rency accounts may be freely transferred abroad. Transfers between nonresident accounts do not re- quire prior approval. Members of the diplomatic community must use transferable or nontransfer- able birr accounts for payments of local expenses. No resident Ethiopian national may maintain a bank account abroad. Joint ventures may be permitted to open foreign currency accounts, or transferable or nontransferable birr accounts to purchase raw ma- terials, equipment, and spare parts not available in the local market. As soon as the goods are received, documentary evidence of entry of the goods pur- chased with such funds must be submitted to the Exchange Control Department. In general, the ac- counts may be replenished only after such docu- ments have been presented. Blocked accounts of nonresidents are maintained with authorized banks and are used to retain funds in excess of Br 20,000 arising from disinvestments in Ethiopia (see section on Capital, below). Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited, and all imports from other sources require a license. Payments abroad for imports require exchange li- censes, which are obtainable upon presentation of a valid importer's license. Approval of applications for exchange licenses is conditional upon the provi- sion of satisfactory information on costs and pay- ment terms and upon the submission of evidence that adequate insurance has been arranged with the Ethiopian Insurance Corporation, particularly for goods imported under letters of credit. Foreign ex- change is not made available for a specified group of imported goods (including alcoholic beverages and certain durable consumer goods) considered to be nonessential or readily substitutable by domestic 160 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA 161 products. Imports of cars and other vehicles require prior authorization from the Minister of Transport and Communications. Such authorization is readily granted without restriction as to frequency if im- ports are financed with foreign exchange balances held abroad. Exchange licenses are granted in the currency appropriate to the country of origin or in any convertible currency that may be requested. Payments by letter of credit, mail transfer, tele- graphic transfer, or cash against documents at sight are all normally acceptable, but the National Bank must be consulted regarding imports on a cash- against-documents basis. Certain imports (about one hundred items, mostly consumer goods) may not be financed on an acceptance basis, and virtually no imports take place on this basis. Importation on suppliers' credits requires prior approval of the terms and conditions of the credit, and such imports are limited to raw and intermediate materials, pharmaceuticals, and machinery and transport equipment. All imports are subject to a general (ad valorem) sales tax. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange li- censes. Invisibles connected with trade transactions are treated on the same basis as the goods to which they relate. Foreign employees may remit monthly up to 30 percent of their net earnings (but only for the first three years of their contract if employed by the private sector); they may remit a maximum of between 40 percent and 50 percent of total net earn- ings during the period of service and upon final departure. Other expatriate employees may on final departure take out the same maximum amount, but not more than Br 20,000 in any one year. Foreign nationals who are not entitled to remittance facili- ties may, however, remit up to 30 percent of their net earnings for the education of their children. Persons traveling abroad are allowed foreign ex- change equivalent to Br 125 a day for a maximum period of 20 days in any one calendar year if the journey is made for business purposes; for tourism, persons 18 years of age and over are allowed up to the equivalent of Br 600 a year. Students are allowed foreign exchange up to the equivalent of Br 500 to study abroad, and Ethiopian nationals with depen- dents who are pursuing higher studies at accredited institutions abroad are allowed to remit funds to meet school fees and reasonable expenses. Resi- dents may remit premiums on insurance policies taken out before April 1962. Subject to certain limits and to submission of evidence, persons may obtain a foreign exchange allocation of up to Br 10,000 for medical treatment and travel abroad. After provid- ing for payment of local taxes, foreign companies may, in principle, remit dividends on their invested and reinvested capital in any currency. Travelers may take with them a maximum of Br 10 in Ethio- pian bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Ex- ports of most cereals to any destination other than Djibouti are also prohibited. All commodity exports require permits from the Exchange Controller and some require, in addition, the approval of specified public bodies. When applying for a permit, an ex- porter must specify the goods to be exported, their destination, and their value. For exports on a c . i .f. basis, exporters must obtain full insurance from the Ethiopian Insurance Corporation. The granting of a permit by the Exchange Controller enables the goods to pass through customs. The licensing sys- tem is used to ensure that foreign exchange receipts are surrendered to the National Bank, generally within three months, and that export proceeds are received in an appropriate currency (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Exports of hides and skins are regulated and are prohibited until the needs of local factories have been met. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in Br 10 in Ethiopian currency. Foreign exchange must be de- clared by travelers on entry, and its re-exportation is subject to authorization, except for temporary visi- tors. Reconversion of birr must be supported by documentary evidence of prior exchange of foreign currency. Capital Controls over capital movements are designed to restrict outflows, to prevent an unwarranted ac- cumulation of external debt, and to keep the au- thorities informed of the country's external debt position. All receipts of capital in the form of foreign ex- change must be surrendered. Exchange control au- thorization is required, and registration of capital inflows with the exchange control authorities estab- lishes evidence of receipt, which is required for repatriation. All recognized and registered foreign investments may be terminated on presentation of documents regarding liquidation and on payment of all taxes and other liabilities. Subject to appropri- ate documentation, foreign businessmen having ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 162 ETHIOPIA nonregistered investments may transfer their capi- tal abroad on liquidation and final departure from Ethiopia but may not transfer more than Br 20,000 in any one calendar year; funds in excess of this amount must be deposited in a blocked account with an authorized bank. This regulation does not apply to investments undertaken under the Council of State Special Decree No. 17/1990 of May 19, 1990 and joint ventures established under the Council of State Special Decree No. 11/1989 of July 5, 1989. Transfers by emigrants who had operated their own businesses are restricted to Br 20,000 in any one calendar year. Foreign investors are permitted to hold a majority share in a joint venture, except in the precious met- als, public utilities, telecommunications, banking and insurance, transport, and retail trade sectors. All applications for joint ventures must be approved by the Office of the State Committee for Foreign Economic Relations and registered with the Minis- try of Domestic Trade; a minimum of 25 percent of share capital must be paid before registration. Ex- emptions from income taxes are granted for up to five years for new projects and for up to three years for major extensions to existing projects. Imports of investment goods and spare parts for such ventures are also eligible for exemption from customs duties and other specified import levies in the case of new projects or major expansions to existing projects. Proceeds from the liquidation of a joint venture (as well as dividends received from the activities of a joint venture and payments received from the sale or transfer of shares) can be remitted abroad in convertible currency without restriction. A joint venture may also transfer abroad in convertible cur- rency payments in respect of debt contracted and fees/royalties in respect of technology transfer agreements relating to a joint venture. Borrowing abroad requires exchange control ap- proval and is restricted. Authorized banks may freely place their funds abroad, except on fixed- term deposit, but they may not acquire securities denominated in foreign currency without the per- mission of the National Bank. In addition, they need the prior approval of the National Bank to overdraw their accounts with foreign correspondents, to bor- row funds abroad, or to accept deposits in foreign currency. Gold The ownership of personal jewelry of which gold or platinum forms a part is permitted. Unless specifi- cally authorized by the Minister of Mines and Energy, the possession or custody of 50 ounces or more of raw or refined gold or platinum, or of gold or platinum in the form of nuggets, ores, or bullion, is not permitted. Newly mined gold is sold by the Ethiopian Mineral Resources Development Corporation to the National Bank. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange licenses issued by the National Bank. Such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Changes During 1991 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Fiji is the Fiji Dollar, the external value of which is determined on the basis of the fixed relationship between the Fiji dollar and a weighted basket consisting of the Australian dollar, the Japanese yen, the New Zealand dollar, the pound sterling, and the U.S. dollar. The weighting formula is normally reviewed every three years; the most recent revision was made in 1991. The ex- change rate of the Fiji dollar in terms of the U.S. dol- lar, the intervention currency, is fixed daily on the basis of quotations for the U.S. dollar and other currencies included in the basket. On December 31, 1991, the midpoint exchange rate for the Fiji dollar in terms of the U.S. dollar was F$1.4727 per US$1. The Reserve Bank of Fiji provides official quotations only for the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Fiji formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from August 4, 1972. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of Fiji acting as agent of the Government; the Reserve Bank delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve normal import payments. Ex- cept with the specific permission of the Reserve Bank, residents of Fiji are required to offer for sale to an authorized dealer all foreign currencies they re- ceive.1 The Ministry of Trade and Commerce is re- sponsible for issuing import licenses, with the ex- ception of those for gold, timber, rice, and dairy products. Import licenses for gold are issued by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, for timber by the Ministry of Forestry, and for rice and dairy products by the Ministry of Primary Indus- tries and Cooperatives. Export licenses are issued by the Comptroller of Customs. Prescription of Currency Transactions with all countries are subject to ex- change control. Settlements with residents of any country may be made in Fiji currency through an external account or in any foreign currency. 1 Under Fiji's Exchange Control Regulations, foreign currencies are all currencies other than the Fiji dollar. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident2 may maintain an external account in Fiji currency or a foreign currency account with an authorized bank; such accounts may be opened without the specific approval of the Reserve Bank. These accounts may be credited freely with interest payable on the account, with payments from other external accounts, with the proceeds of sales of for- eign currency or foreign coins by the account holder, and with Fiji currency notes that the account holder brought into Fiji or acquired by debit to an external account or by the sale of foreign currency in the country during a temporary visit. External ac- counts may also be credited with payments by resi- dents for which either general or specific authority has been given. External accounts may be debited for payments to residents of Fiji, transfers to other external accounts, payments in cash in Fiji, and purchases of foreign exchange. Imports and Import Payments Imports of most goods are under open general license; imports of seed potatoes, butter, canned fish, rice, milk, petroleum products, and coffee in any form require a license. A wide range of con- sumer goods are imported by national cooperative societies under a joint arrangement with six other Pacific Island countries. Import prohibitions are im- posed on a few commodities from all sources, mainly for security, health, or public policy reasons. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence to authorized dealers, who may allow pay- ments for goods that have been imported under either a specific import license or an open general license. Authorized banks may allow advance pay- ments of up to F$2,000 for all imports, provided the goods are imported into Fiji within 90 days of the date the advance payment is made. The approval of the Reserve Bank is required in cases where amounts exceed F$2,000. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are permitted either un- der a delegated authority to banks or, where large 2A nonresident is a person or firm whose country of normal domicile or established residence is a country other than Fiji. As regards individuals, a resident of Fiji is a person who either has lived or intends to continue living in Fiji for at least three years. 163 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 164 FIJI amounts or nondelegated payments are involved, upon application to the Reserve Bank. Payments may be made freely for all bona fide current transac- tions. The approval of the Reserve Bank, however, is required in cases where amounts exceed the estab- lished limits. Residents of Fiji traveling to other countries may obtain from a bank, without refer- ence to the Reserve Bank, a foreign currency travel allowance for a private or business visit up to the equivalent of F$2,000 a person a journey; amounts in excess of this limit are approved by the Reserve Bank in cases of genuine need supported by docu- mentary proof. There is no restriction on the num- ber of trips a resident may make in any one year. Each traveler may take with him F$100 in Fiji cur- rency and the equivalent of F$500 in other curren- cies, provided that these amounts are not in addi- tion to travel allowances approved by a commercial bank or the Reserve Bank. Residents of Fiji are al- lowed to make cash gifts to nonresidents equivalent to F$200 a donor a year; additional funds are permit- ted in compassionate cases. Foreign-owned companies must apply to the Re- serve Bank for permission to transfer dividends abroad. The policy of the Reserve Bank is to allow the remittance of the current year's profits and one year's retained earnings. The transfer abroad of rent to nonresidents must be approved by the Reserve Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Specific licenses are required only for exports of rice, sugar, wheat bran, copra meal, certain lumber, scrap metals, certain animals, and a few other items. Irrespective of any export-licensing require- ments, however, exporters are required to produce an export permit for commercial consignment of all goods with an f .o .b. value of more than F$l,000; this permit is required for exchange control pur- poses. Exporters are required to collect the proceeds of exports within six months of the date of exporta- tion of the goods from Fiji and may not grant credit to a nonresident buyer in excess of six months with- out specific permission. All foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer within one month of receipt. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to authorized dealers. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in Fiji notes or foreign currency notes. Residents are required to sell their foreign currency holdings to an authorized dealer within one month of their return. Receipts of interest, dividends, and amortization must be surrendered on a half-yearly basis unless approval for reinvestment abroad was given by the Reserve Bank. Capital The inflow of capital in any form requires the specific permission of the Reserve Bank. Foreign investment in Fiji is normally expected to be fi- nanced from a nonresident source. Such foreign investment may be given "approved status," which guarantees the right to repatriate dividends and capital. Overseas investments and other forms of capital transfers abroad have been temporarily sus- pended. The purchase of personal real property abroad is not permitted. Foreign-owned companies are permitted to re- patriate proceeds from the sale of assets up to the limit of F$l million a company a year. The transfer of inheritances and dowries due to nonresidents is permitted, as is the transfer of the proceeds from the sale of a house owned by a non- resident. The transfer of funds by emigrants on departure is limited to F$20,000 for married and F$13,000 for single applicants. Thereafter, the emi- grant is allowed an automatic transfer of F$3,000 a month commencing three months after emigration until the amount cleared by the Inland Revenue Department has been fully transferred. Authority is delegated to banks operating in Fiji to approve transactions involving F$50,000 or more arising from (1) the conversion of foreign currency into Fiji currency, whether for credit to a resident account or to an external account; and (2) the credit- ing of an external account with Fiji currency ema- nating from another external account (including Fiji currency accounts of overseas banks). The banks must send confirmation of such inflows to the Re- serve Bank; they must also have the approval of the Bank before granting any loans of more than F$10,000 to a company or branch in Fiji (other than a bank) that is controlled directly or indirectly by per- sons resident outside Fiji or by individuals desig- nated as nonresidents; however, the banks do not need such approval to lend up to F$10,000 to indi- vidual nonresident customers, who must repay such loans before their departure from Fiji. The banks may not lend foreign currency to any resident of Fiji without the specific permission of the Reserve Bank. Residents require permission from the Re- serve Bank before they may borrow foreign cur- rency in Fiji or abroad. The facility for residents to purchase foreign cur- rency up to a maximum of F$5,000 a family a year to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI 165 acquire foreign currency securities has been sus- pended. The purchase of personal real property outside Fiji is not permitted. Special tax incentives are granted for investments in the tourism industry, and an investment allowance similar to that for the hotel industry is provided for large outlay invest- ment projects that support the tourist industry. Portfolio investment in Fiji by nonresidents requires the approval of the Reserve Bank; the proceeds of the sale or realization of such investment may be repatriated. Banks require exchange control permis- sion to borrow abroad; they may accept deposits from nonresidents. During 1990, the Reserve Bank encouraged accelerated repayments of more expen- sive external loans. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Fiji but not gold bullion. The exporta- tion of gold coins, except numismatic coins and collectors' pieces, requires the specific permission of the Reserve Bank. Gold imports from all sources, other than imports of gold coins, require a specific import license issued by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning; these are restricted to autho- rized gold dealers. Gold coins are free of fiscal tax but are subject to a customs duty of 10 percent. Gold bullion is exempt from customs duty but is subject to a fiscal tax of 10 percent, and gold jewelry is subject to a customs duty of 10 percent but is ex- empt from a fiscal tax and does not require a license when valued at less than F$200. Samples of gold and gold jewelry sent by foreign manufacturers re- quire import licenses if over F$200 in value. Exports of gold jewelry are free of export duty but require licenses if their value exceeds F$l,000. Ex- ports of gold bullion are subject to an export duty of 3 percent. All newly mined gold is refined in Aus- tralia and sold at free market prices. Commemora- tive gold coins of F$100, F$200, and F$250 have been issued; these are legal tender but do not normally circulate. Changes During 1991 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement Imports and Import Payments The currency of Finland is the Finnish Markka, the external value of which is pegged to the Euro- pean Currency Unit (ECU). The authorities, how- ever, have adjusted the exchange rate from the level determined at the introduction of this arrangement in June 1991, and, since November 15, 1991, the exchange rate of the markka has been set at Fmk 5.55841 per ECU 1 within margins of 3 percent. On December 31, 1991, buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Fmk 4.125 and Fmk 4.141, respectively. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized banks may deal among themselves, with residents, and with nonresident banks in U.S. dollars and other convertible currencies. For- ward premiums and discounts quoted by autho- rized banks reflect interest rate differentials in the countries of various currencies. The Suomen Pankki (Bank of Finland) does not provide forward cover for commercial banks. Finland formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from September 25, 1979. Administration of Control There are no exchange controls. Import and ex- port licensing are administered by the Export and Import Permits Office (a unit subordinate to the Ministry of Trade and Industry), which is headed by a board composed of government officials, includ- ing a representative of the Suomen Pankki. Licens- ing and other procedures that were applied to im- ports from the former U.S.S.R. are applied to the independent republics on a temporary basis. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries may be made in any convertible currency or through convertible ac- counts. Settlement of clearing account (debit) bal- ances with Bulgaria is effected under a payments agreement. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may be held in an autho- rized bank in any convertible currency, including Finnish markkaa. These accounts may be freely credited and debited. Most goods may be imported free of license from the multilateral countries, provided that the goods are purchased from, and originate in, those coun- tries. However, certain goods1 may be imported from the multilateral area under a global quota sys- tem, which provides for import licenses to be issued at least up to the amounts of quotas for specified commodity groups. With the exception of the commodities to which reference was made in the preceding paragraph, im- port licenses are not required for most commodities originating in and purchased from the former U.S.S.R., or originating in and purchased from the four countries with which agreements on the recipro- cal removal of obstacles to trade have been concluded (Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, and Poland). All imports of commodities originating in countries or areas not classified2 in either the multilateral area or the bilateral area require individual licenses. The State Granary is the main agency responsible for the impor- tation of wheat, rye, barley, oats, and products of these grains for human consumption, but individual importers may also import these commodities under license. There is a state monopoly for imports of alco- holic beverages. Authorized banks freely grant foreign exchange for all imports for which licenses are granted, on presentation of a notification form and the import license (when required for imports from countries with nonconvertible currencies). Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisible transactions are not restricted. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required only for exports of scrap metal. Sales of arms are strictly controlled. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from current invisibles are not subject to any control. The funds may be held in a domestic foreign currency account in Finland. The importation aSome agricultural commodities, some fish, fuels, and other petroleum products. 2 Currently, Taiwan Province of China and the Democratic Peo- ple's Republic of Korea. 166 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND 167 of domestic and foreign currency and coins is unres tr ic ted. Capital All capital transactions are freely allowed without restriction. International banking activities of Fin- nish authorized banks are free of regulations but are subject to certain supervisory reporting require- ments. Nonresidents may purchase Finnish se- curities only if they are "free shares." Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, and sell gold in any form in Finland. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement June 7. The Finnish markka was pegged to the ECU at Fmk 4.87580 per ECU 1. November 15. The markka was devalued by 12.3 percent following a temporary float on the pre- vious day, and pegged at Fmk 5.55841 per ECU 1 within margins of 3 percent. Administration of Control January 1. All remaining foreign exchange con- trols, except those relating to the contracting of loans abroad by private individuals and comparable corporate entities, were abolished. October 1. Exchange controls on the contracting of loans abroad by private individuals and comparable corporate entities were abolished. Prescription of Currency January 1. The bilateral settlement agreement with the former U.S.S.R. was terminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of France is the Franc. France par- ticipates with Belgium, Denmark, Germany, Ire- land, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portu- gal, Spain, and the United Kingdom in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism (ERM) of the European Monetary System (EMS).1 In ac- cordance with this agreement, France maintains the spot exchange rates between the f ranc and the currencies of the other participants within mar- gins of plus 2.2753 percent or minus 2.2247 per- cent (in the case of the Portuguese escudo, the Spanish peseta, and the pound sterling, plus 6.18 percent or minus 5.82 percent) against the cross rates derived f rom the central rates ex- pressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Bank of France (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the cur- rencies of the other participating states in un- limited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1991, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates per: 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 deutsche mark 1 Irish pound 1,000 Italian lire 100 Netherlands guilders 1,000 Portuguese escudos1 1 pound sterling 100 Spanish pesetas Effective April 6, 1992. Francs Upper limit Lower limit 16.6310 89.9250 343.050 9.1890 4.5845 304.440 40.9610 10.5055 5.4785 15.899 85.970 327.920 8.7850 4.3830 291.040 36.3320 9.3180 4.8595 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper func- tioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the inter- vention currencies being each other's, the ECU, and the U.S. dollar. Buying and selling rates for 21 cur- rencies are quoted daily on the basis of market 1 With effect from April 6,1992, Portugal has participated in the ERM of the EMS. rates.2 On December 31, 1991, the buying and sell- ing rates were F 5.1740 per US$1 and F 5.1860 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Fixed conversion rates in terms of the franc apply to the CFP franc, which is the currency of the Over- seas Territories of French Polynesia, New Cal- edonia, and Wallis and Futuna Islands, and to the CFA franc, which is the currency of countries that are linked to the French Treasury through an Opera- tions Account.3 These fixed parities are CFPF 1 per F 0.055 and CFAF 1 per F 0.02, respectively. Registered banks in France and in Monaco, which may also act on behalf of banks established abroad or in Operations Account countries, are permitted to deal spot or forward in the exchange market in France. Registered banks may also deal spot and forward with their correspondents in foreign mar- kets in all currencies. Nonbank residents may pur- chase foreign exchange forward in respect of spec- ified transactions. All residents including non- enterprise individuals may purchase or sell foreign exchange forward without restriction. Forward sales of foreign currency are not restricted, whether or not they are for hedging purposes. France formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory The exchange control regulations apply in all ter- ritories of the French Republic, that is, France, the overseas departments (Guadeloupe, Martinique, French Guiana, and Reunion), Mayotte, St. Pierre and Miquelon, and the three overseas territories (New Caledonia, French Polynesia, and Wallis and Futuna Islands). No exchange control is applied in relation to Monaco or the Operations Account coun- tries (see footnote 3); all payments between France and these countries or territories are free of restric- tion on the part of France and take place at fixed 2 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Djibouti francs, ECUs, Finnish markkaa, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and zaires. 3Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 168 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE 169 exchange rates. All other countries or territories are considered foreign countries for exchange control purposes. The exchange control regulations include controls over inward direct investment on the basis of Decree No. 89-938 of December 29, 1989 and Decree No. 9058 of January 15,1991. These decrees apply to financial relations with all countries except those belonging to the Operations Account. Administration of Control The Directorate of the Treasury of the Ministry of Economy and Finance is the coordinating agency for financial relations with foreign countries. It is responsible for exchange control and all matters relating to inward and outward direct investment and to borrowing abroad unless they relate to real estate companies, in which case the Bank of France screens applications. The Directorate of the Trea- sury also evaluates the balance of payments, to- gether with the Bank of France, which collects the data for its compilation. The Directorate of Treasury of the Ministry of Economy and Finance has certain powers in respect of matters relating to insurance, reinsurance, an- nuities, etc. The execution of all transfers has been delegated to registered banks and stockbrokers and to the Postal Administration. The Directorate- General of Customs and Indirect Taxes establishes import and export procedures and controls within the framework of commercial policy directives given by the Directorate of Foreign Economic Rela- tions (DREE); the Directorate-General also issues import and export licenses and is responsible for any litigation relating to the exchange regulations. Technical visas required for certain imports and ex- ports are issued by the appropriate ministry or by the Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes. The Ministry of Industry has certain respon- sibilities in respect of licensing contracts and con- tracts relating to technical assistance. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the Operations Account coun- tries may be made in francs or the currency issued by any institute of issue that maintains an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury.4 Settle- ments with all other countries may be made in any of the currencies of those countries or through non- resident foreign accounts in francs. Importers and exporters are free to invoice in any currency. 4Comprising the institutes of issue of the Operations Account countries and the Overseas Institute of Issue (for New Caledonia, French Polynesia, Mayotte, and Wallis and Futuna Islands). Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident enterprises engaged in international trade are authorized to hold foreign currency ac- counts in France or abroad. Such enterprises are also authorized to hold accounts in francs abroad. All residents, including individuals and enterprises not engaged in international trade, are permitted to hold ECU-denominated accounts in France, to hold foreign currency-denominated accounts in France or abroad, and to hold French franc-denominated accounts abroad. Nonresident accounts in francs may be freely opened by registered banks for nonresidents, in- cluding French nationals (other than officials) who are residing abroad. Since March 1989, all over- drafts and advances on nonresident-held franc ac- counts have been unrestricted. Nonresident ac- counts may be operated freely. Emigrants of foreign or French nationality may take out all of their assets upon departure. In addi- tion, nonresidents may hold foreign currency ac- counts with French and foreign-owned banks. Imports and Import Payments Goods originating in and shipped from other countries that are accorded privileged treatment in respect of exchange control regulations (see section on Exchange Control Territory, above) are generally admitted free of quantitative restrictions and indi- vidual licenses. Imports of goods that originate in other countries and that are subject to quantitative restrictions require individual licenses. Some im- ports from non-EC countries are subject to mini- mum prices; these require an administrative visa and sometimes, exceptionally, an import license. Certain imports require certificates of origin. For import control purposes, countries other than those that are accorded privileged treatment are divided into three groups according to the extent of import liberalization: (1) the former Organization for European Economic Cooperation (OEEC) coun- tries, their dependent territories, and certain former dependent territories, Canada, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Liberia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, United States, West- ern Samoa, and Yugoslavia; (2) some specified countries;5 and (3) China, Democratic People's Re- public of Korea, and Mongolia. Goods covered by Afghanistan, Argentina, Australia, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq, Republic of Korea, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mexico, Myanmar, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Pan- ama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Uruguay, Venezuela, and the Republic of Yemen. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 170 FRANCE the import liberalization arrangements applicable to one country may be imported freely from another country, provided that the country of origin and the country of shipment both benefit from the same degree of liberalization. Imports of practically all industrial products from countries in group (1) are free of quantitative restric- tions, but restrictions are applied to a number of agricultural and electronic products; there is rela- tively little difference between the lists of goods that may be imported freely from d ifferent countries in this group. Imports of certain industrial products from countries in group (2) are restricted, and re- strictions are applied to these and to certain addi- tional industrial products from group (3) countries. For some commodities, global quotas are allocated annually (petroleum and petroleum products) or semiannually and apply to all countries (other than those that have bilaterally negotiated quotas or re- ceive privileged treatment). Imports from all coun- tries of certain agricultural items and certain raw materials are free of quantitative restrictions. Imports from non-EC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) of the EC are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports; com- mon EC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. Liberalized imports are not subject to trade con- trols but do require a customs document, which constitutes the customs declaration. For some liber- alized imports, an administrative visa issued by the Central Customs Administration or by the appro- priate ministry is required on an import declaration. Imports of the products of the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) require such administra- tive visas when originating in non-ECSC countries. Other imports generally require individual im- port licenses. These are granted up to quotas deter- mined on an individual commodity basis or for a group of commodities and apply to specified coun- tries or areas in accordance with trade agreements or an import plan drawn up for a definite period. Imports of some products must pass through desig- nated customs offices. Documents accompanying goods passing through customs must be written in or translated into French. Quantitative import restrictions consist of EC- wide restrictions and national restrictions. The for- mer include bilaterally agreed restrictions on textile imports under the Multifiber Arrangement (MFA) and voluntary export restraints on a number of agri- cultural and industrial products negotiated at the EC level. EC-wide restrictions are enforced through import licensing subject to prior authorization. Na- tional restrictions on imports from third countries that are in free circulation within the EC are en- forced through temporary import restrictions au- thorized by the EC Commission under Article 115 of the EEC Treaty. In cases where the restrictions are not officially recognized by the EC (for example, industry-to-industry understandings that do not directly involve member governments), import re- strictions are enforced through national import li- censing or standards and certification procedures. Automatic licensing is granted for imports that are under surveillance at either the EC or the national level. Payments for imports from foreign countries may be made by credit to a foreign account in francs, with foreign currency purchased in the French ex- change market, or by debiting a foreign currency account in France or abroad. All residents and inter- national trading houses may freely open accounts in foreign currencies in France with registered banks or abroad (also in French francs) without limit on the credit balance. Payments may be made by trans- fer through a registered bank, by credit card, by check, by compensation of debts or claims, or by bank notes. The amounts that may be transferred through postal channels are not subject to limita- tion, but, in practice, the Postal Administration does not make import payments valued at over F 250,000. Registered banks may, without special authoriza- tion, permit advance payments to be made that are provided for in the commercial contract. There is no restriction on the use of suppliers' credits. Payments for Invisibles Payments to foreign countries by residents for current invisibles have to be reported but are not restricted as to amount. Registered banks are per- mitted to approve applications for payments for all categories of current invisibles without limitation. Transfers of amounts exceeding the equivalent of F 50,000 are required to be declared. Outward re- mittances for family support abroad and transfers of donations to nonresidents are freely permitted. Irrespective of the exchange control regulations, certain transactions between persons or firms in France and abroad are subject to restriction; these include certain transactions relating to insurance, reinsurance, and road and river transport. There are no limits on expenditures for travel abroad. There is no restriction on the amount of foreign or domestic bank notes resident and non- resident travelers may take out, but amounts ex- ceeding F 50,000 or its equivalent must be declared to customs upon departure. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE 171 Exports and Export Proceeds Certain goods on a prohibited export list may be exported only under a special license. Some other exports also require individual licenses, but if the total value does not exceed F 10,000 (F 100,000 for art objects or collectors' items), these exports may be permitted without any formality, subject to certain exceptions. Exports to foreign countries are not subject to exchange control, except when they are made by an occasional exporter, in which case payment must be received through the exchange market. Exporters are allowed to cover forward for an unlimited period, and may hold foreign currency accounts at home and abroad without limit on the credit bal- ance. Registered banks may freely extend foreign currency advances to exporters; such advances and their repayment may be settled by the receipts of the corresponding exports. Certain goods purchased in France by persons not normally residing in France are considered ex- ports, even when paid for in francs, and are exempt from taxes. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with Mo- naco and the Operations Account countries may be retained. With minor exceptions for certain types of transaction, services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins (except gold coins) in francs, CFA francs, CFP francs, or any foreign currency; amounts of F 50,000 or larger, however, must be declared to customs upon arrival. The exchange of bank notes issued by Algeria, Mo- rocco, and Tunisia is prohibited at the request of those countries. Capital Capital movements between France and Monaco and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; purchases of French and foreign securities abroad and the corresponding outward transfers of resident-owned capital are free; capital receipts from foreign countries are permitted freely. Capital assets abroad of residents are not subject to repatriation. The transfer abroad of nonresident- owned funds, including the sales proceeds of capi- tal assets, is not restricted. French and foreign securities held in France by nonresidents may be exported, provided that they have been deposited with a registered bank in a foreign dossier (dossier etranger de valeurs mobilieres)', French securities held under a foreign dossier can also be sold in France, and the sales proceeds can be transferred abroad. Foreign securities held in France by nonresidents must be deposited with a registered bank; French securities held in France by nonresidents need not be deposited but cannot be dealt with or exported unless they have been depos- ited. Foreign securities held in France by residents must be deposited with a qualified bank or broker. Residents may hold French and foreign securities abroad under the control of a French registered bank or broker. Subject to compliance with the special regula- tions concerning inward and outward direct invest- ment, residents may purchase abroad French and foreign securities on stock exchanges and securities that are not quoted on a recognized stock exchange through registered banks. French and foreign se- curities may be held or sold abroad, but they may also be imported and then either held or sold on a French stock exchange. Correspondingly, nonresi- dents holding French or foreign securities abroad (whether acquired before November 24, 1968 or later) may import them into France through a regis- tered bank and hold them in a foreign dossier or sell them on a French stock exchange. The exchange control regulations include control over inward direct investments in existing French firms. The basis for control over foreign direct in- vestments is Decree No. 89-938 of December 29, 1989, which applies to financial relations with all countries except those belonging to the Operations Account and Monaco. Direct investments are defined as investments leading to control of a company or enterprise. Any participation leading foreign investors to hold more than one third of the capital is considered direct investment. In the case of firms whose shares are quoted on the stock exchange, the threshold is re- duced to 20 percent of the capital, but it applies only to each individual foreign participation and not to the total of foreign participations. To determine whether a company is foreign controlled, the Minis- try of Economy and Finance may also take into account any special relationships resulting from stock options, loans, patents and licenses, and com- mercial contracts. Foreign direct investments in existing French firms generally require prior declaration to the Min- istry of Economy and Finance. Investments in real estate (except development companies and vine- yards) and, when they do not exceed F10 million, in hotels, restaurants, and retail trade and services are exempt from prior declaration. It is also the case for increases of equity capital in a company already ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 172 FRANCE controlled by a foreign investor and for complemen- tary participations in a company in which an inves- tor already holds more than two thirds of the capital share. The period during which the Ministry of Economy and Finance may suspend the acquisition by non-EC investors of a participation in an existing French firm is 30 days. Any non-EC investment can take place freely after this period if the Minister of Economy and Finance has not formally notified the investor of his decision to suspend the acquisition. Foreign companies controlled by EC residents are free to take over any participation in the capital of a French company, and they are subject only to prior notification to the Treasury. Unless the Ministry of Economy and Finance formally communicates to the investor, within 15 days of the receipt of the notifica- tion, that he cannot be considered controlled by EC residents, the investor can proceed with his acquisition. EC-controlled companies can request that they receive the full benefit of the EC status on a perma- nent basis if their total turnover exceeds F 1 billion a year and if they have completed at least three fiscal years of operations. The permanent acquisition of the EC status eliminates all prior notification re- quirements of an investor. Regardless of the nationality of a nonresident in- vestor, the Minister of Economy and Finance is en- titled to issue a finding within one month to pro- hibit a participation if public health, order, security, or defense is considered to be in danger. Foreign direct investments, whether or not they have been subject to prior notification, must be re- ported to the Ministry of Economy and Finance within 20 days of their fulfillment. The liquidation proceeds of foreign direct invest- ment in France may be freely transferred abroad; the liquidation must be reported to the Ministry within 20 days of its occurrence. Foreign direct in- vestments by residents are not restricted but must be reported to the Ministry of Economy and Finance within 20 days if they exceed F 5 million. The liqui- dation of direct investments abroad is free from any prior application, provided that the corresponding funds are reported to the Ministry of Economy and Finance if they exceed F 5 million. Foreign issues on the French capital market, ex- cept issues originating in EC countries, are subject to prior authorization from the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the French Government, and (2) shares similar to securities that are already of- ficially quoted on a stock exchange in France. Borrowing abroad in French francs or foreign cur- rencies by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in France, or by branches or subsidiaries in France of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, is unrestricted. The ap- plication of the controls over direct investment and borrowing is delegated to the Bank of France insofar as these activities relate to French firms that are mainly engaged in real estate business. All restric- tions on lending in French francs to nonresidents were abolished, effective March 9,1989. Limitations for the purposes of exchange control on the foreign exchange positions of commercial banks were also abolished as of June 1, 1989. Registered banks are free to lend foreign currency to residents. Nonresi- dents may freely purchase French short-term se- curities, including treasury bills, bons de caisse, and private drafts. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire regularly, and dispose of gold in any form in France. They may continue to hold abroad any gold they held there before November 25,1968. There is a free gold mar- ket for bars and coins in Paris, to which residents and nonresidents have free access and in which normally no official intervention takes place. Imports and exports of "monetary" gold (defined as gold having a fineness or a weight that is recognized in the gold market) into or from the territory of conti- nental France are now governed by the regulations applying to ordinary goods. Movements of industrial gold are subject to a simple declaration, as are imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold, such as gold-filled and gold- plated articles. Collectors' items of gold and gold an- tiques are subject to specific regulations. Most gold coins are traded on the Paris stock exchange. In domestic trading, purchases of bars and coins are not subject to value-added tax. Im- ports of monetary gold, except gold imported by the Bank of France, are subject to customs duty and value-added tax. Domestic transactions in gold and gold coins are subject to capital gains tax. Changes During 1991 Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EC-wide basis during 1991, page 557.) Capital March 13. Decree 91-270 abolished the require- ment to obtain prior authorization to make direct investments in South Africa. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Gabon is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.02. Ex- change transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buying and selling rates for certain foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris ex- change market, and include a commission. Com- missions are levied at the rate of 0.25 percent on transfers made by the banks for their own accounts and on all private capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treasury, national accounting offices, national and international public agencies, and private entities granted exemption by the Min- istry of Finance, Budget, and Participations because of the nature of their activities. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. With the exception of those relating to gold, Gabon's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territo- ries) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cam- eroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other coun- tries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control The Directorate of Financial Institutions in the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and Participations su- pervises borrowing and lending abroad. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance, Budget, and Participations, who has partly dele- gated his approval authority for current payments to the authorized banks and that with respect to the external position of the banks to the BEAC. All ex- irThe CFA franc circulating in Gabon is issued by the Bank of Central African States (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cam- eroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Congo, and Equatorial Guinea. change transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized inter- mediaries—that is, the Postal Administration and authorized banks. Import and export authoriza- tions, where necessary, are issued by the Director- ate of External Trade of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since Gabon is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Mo- naco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Set- tlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on those applied in France. BEAC bank notes may be credited to foreign accounts in francs when they have been mailed to the BEAC agency in Libreville by an authorized bank's foreign correspondent. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresi- dent account of BEAC bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments In general, imports from member countries of the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) are free of formalities; however, imports of refined vegetable oil from these countries require prior approval. All imports from countries outside the UDEAC valued at more than CFAF 500,000 are subject to an authorization to import. Quantitative restrictions are maintained only on imports of sugar, vegetable oil, soap, mineral water, and cement. For perishables and spare parts, an anticipatory autho- rization is given to simplify administrative pro- cedures. Imports from countries outside the UDEAC that are similar to, and compete with, do- mestic products are subject to licensing, but, with a 173 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 174 GABON few exceptions2 that are established by ministerial order, import authorizations are granted liberally. Some imports are prohibited for security and health reasons. Imports of refined vegetable oil are sus- pended except when they originate from UDEAC member countries. All imports of commercial goods must be insured through authorized insurance companies in Gabon. All import transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Authorizations duly endorsed by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and Participations (Directorate of Financial Institu- tions) entitle importers to purchase the necessary foreign exchange, provided that the shipping docu- ments are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval, which is granted when the appropriate documents are submitted. For many types of payment, the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invis- ibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income ac- cruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, divi- dends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a person a trip (CFAF 100,000 for children under 10 years) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Gabon must be surrendered. For business travel to foreign coun- tries, there is a special allocation equivalent to CFAF 25,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 500,000 a trip. Tourist and business travel allocations may not be combined. Travelers to for- eign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BE AC bank notes; the amount taken out is not deducted from the travel allocation. Trav- elers to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries may not export CFA or French bank notes in excess of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 (CFAF 100,000 for chil- dren under 10 years) for tourist travel; for business 2Curren t ly totaling about thirty items, including cement, ham, mineral water, plastic goods, sugar, batteries, and refined vege- table oil. travel, the amount of such bank notes that may be carried out is the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 a day and CFAF 500,000 a trip. Transfers may be effected without limit through the banking or postal system. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports require authorization, irrespective of desti- nation. Export transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered. Export proceeds normally must be received within 150 days of the arrival of the com- modities at their destination. The proceeds must be collected and, if received in a foreign currency, surren- dered within one month of the due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and, if received in foreign currency, surrendered within a month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Ac- count Area. Capital Capital movements between Gabon and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; cap- ital transfers to all other countries require the ap- proval of the Directorate of Financial Institutions and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All foreign se- curities, foreign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in Gabon by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in Gabon. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable) are main- tained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Gabon; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or re- ceipts. With the exception of controls over the sale or ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON 175 introduction of foreign securities in Gabon, the con- trol measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments abroad3 must be declared to the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and Participations, unless they take the form of a capital increase result- ing from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the full or partial liquidation of such investments must also be declared to the Ministry unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a shareholding that had previously been approved as constituting a di- rect investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Gabon4 must be declared to the Ministry unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; within two months of receipt of the declaration, the Minis- try may request the postponement of the project. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in Gabon must also be declared to the Ministry unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a shareholding that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment in Gabon. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Gabonese investments abroad or foreign investments in Gabon, must be reported to the Ministry within 20 days of each operation. Di- rect investments are defined as investments im- plying control of a company or enterprise. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Gabon requires prior authoriza- tion from the Ministry of Budget and Participations. Exempt from authorization, however, are opera- tions in connection with (1) loans backed by a guar- antee from the Gabonese Government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, adver- tising, or offering for sale in Gabon has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authoriza- tion from the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and Par- ticipations. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a di- rect investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Gabon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Gabon. Including those made by companies in Gabon that are di- rectly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of foreign companies. the persons or f irms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either be- tween Gabon and countries abroad or between foreign countries in which these persons or f irms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount ou ts tand ing does not ex- ceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. How- ever, the contracting of loans re fe r red to under (4) that are f ree of authorization, and each repay- ment thereon, must be declared to the Directorate of Financial Institutions within 20 days of the op- eration, unless the total ou ts tand ing amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 5 million or less. Lending abroad by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authoriza- tion from the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and Par- ticipations. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by regis- tered banks; and (2) other loans, when the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 50 mil- lion for any one lender. However, making loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Directorate of Fi- nancial Institutions within 20 days of the operation, except when the total outstanding amount of all loans granted abroad by the lender does not exceed CFAF 5 million. Under the Investment Code of July 6, 1989, any enterprise to be established in Gabon, whether do- mestic or foreign, is granted, under certain condi- tions, reduced duties and taxes on specified in- come. In addition to fiscal privileges, the code provides for four categories of preferential treat- ment. Eligible companies may receive protection against foreign competition and may be given prior- ity in the allocation of imports, public credit, and government contracts. Foreign companies investing in Gabon must o f fer shares for purchase by Gabonese nations for an amount equivalent to at least 10 percent of the companies' capital. Non- Gabonese firms or individuals are not permitted to own land in Gabon. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Gabon. Imports and exports of gold require the authorization of the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and Participations. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 176 GABON on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) impo- rts and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold- plated articles). The exportation of gold is the mo- nopoly of the Societe gabonaise de recherches et d'exploitation minieres. However, imports of gold exempted from licensing and authorization require- ments are subject to customs declaration, Changes During 1991 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of The Gambia is the Gambian Dalasi. Commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus are free to transact among themselves, with the Central Bank of The Gambia (CBG), or with customers at exchange rates agreed on by the par- ties to these transactions. The CBG conducts a fixing session on the last working day of each week with the participation of the commercial banks and for- eign exchange bureaus during which the exchange rate is derived from the actual transaction rates with the interbank market for customs valuation pur- poses for the following week. On December 31, 1991, the midpoint exchange rate of the dalasi in the interbank market was D 8.74 per US$1, and the exchange rate for customs valuation purposes was D 8.74 per US$1. Foreign exchange bureaus have been allowed to operate since April 1990. There are no arrangements for forward cover against ex- change rate risk operating in the official or the com- mercial banking sector. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is formulated by the Min- istry of Finance and Economic Affairs, with the CBG carrying out the day-to-day administration of ex- change control. However, with the suspension of the Foreign Exchange Control Act, controls are not in force. Prescription of Currency Settlements with other countries may be made and received in dalasis or in any convertible cur- rency from nonresident sources. Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Niger, Senegal, and Togo), and also with Ghana, Guinea, Guinea- Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Si- erra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. from abroad in convertible foreign currency. Desig- nated external accounts may be credited with pay- ments from residents of other countries, with trans- fers from other external accounts, and with the proceeds of sales through the banking system of other convertible currencies. They may be debited for any payment to residents of other countries, for transfers to other external accounts, and for the purchase of other convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments The importation of certain specified goods is pro- hibited from all sources for social, health, or se- curity reasons. All other imports are freely permit- ted under open general licenses. All merchandise imports are subject to a national sales tax of 10 percent of the c .i .f. value; imports by the Government, diplomatic missions, and charita- ble organizations are exempted from this tax. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invis- ibles. Visitors to The Gambia are not required to declare foreign currency in their possession. Exports and Export Proceeds The exportation of forestry products is subject to prior authorization from the Forestry Department. The exportation of all other goods can generally be made without individual licenses if settlement is made in accordance with procedures laid down by the CBG. Export proceeds must be received through a commercial bank within six months of the date of exportation in a convertible foreign currency and sold to commercial banks or through transfers from a designated external account. Proceeds from Invisibles There is no restriction on the importation of for- eign currency notes or Gambian bank notes. External Accounts Accounts denominated in dalasis held by resi- dents of other countries are designated external accounts. Such accounts may be opened without reference to the CBG when commercial banks are satisfied that the account holders' source of funds is Capital Inward transfers for the purpose of direct equity investment are not restricted but must be reported to the CBG. Prior approval from the CBG is required in order for residents to accept loans in foreign currency from any source. 177 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 178 THE GAMBIA Overdraft facilities may be provided by the banks to members of diplomatic and international mis- sions in The Gambia up to reasonable amounts. Loans and advances by commercial banks to non- resident companies are subject to the authorization of the CBG. Foreign exchange working balances held by the commercial banks are subject to limits set by the CBG; amounts held in excess of these limits must be offered for sale in the interbank mar- ket or offered to the CBG. These limits must be observed on a daily basis, and the amount held must be reported weekly to the CBG. In addition, two parastatals (The Gambia Produce Marketing Board (GPMB) and The Gambia Telecommunication Company (GamTel)) are permitted temporarily to maintain limited working balances in foreign ex- change. The limits must be observed on a weekly basis, and the amounts held must be reported monthly to the CBG. Any amount in excess of the limit must be surrendered, by the GPMB to the CBG and by GamTel to a commercial bank in The Gambia. Gold The importation of gold coins and bullion requires the approval of the CBG. Changes During 1991 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Germany is the Deutsche Mark. Germany participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Nether- lands, Portugal, Spain, and the United Kingdom in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism (ERM) of the European Monetary System (EMS).1 In accordance with this agreement, Germany main- tains the spot exchange rates between the deutsche mark and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 2.25 percent (in the case of the Portuguese escudo, the Spanish peseta, and the pound sterling, 6 percent) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in Euro- pean Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Deutsche Bun- desbank (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amoun ts at specified intervention ra tes. On December 31, 1991, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates per: Deutsche Mark Upper limit Lower limit 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 French francs 1 Irish pound 1,000 Italian lire 100 Netherlands guilders 1,000 Portuguese escudos1 1 pound sterling 100 Spanish pesetas Effective April 6, 1992. 4.959 26.810 30.495 2.740 1.3670 90.770 12.210 3.132 1.633 4.740 25.630 29.150 2.619 1.3065 86.780 10.830 2.778 1.449 In principle, interventions within the EMS are made in participating currencies but they may also take place in third currencies, such as the U.S. dol- lar. The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits, but they intervene periodically to smooth out erratic fluctuations in exchange rates. Official middle, buying, and selling rates are quoted for 17 foreign currencies on the foreign ex- change market of Frankfurt am Main.2 On Decem- aW i th effect from April 6, 1992, Portugal participates in the ERM of the EMS. ber 31,1991, the official middle rate for the U.S. dol- lar was DM 1.5160 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Forward exchange contracts involving both com- mercial and financial transactions may be negoti- ated freely by residents and nonresidents in all lead- ing convertible currencies in the domestic exchange market and at major international foreign exchange markets. There are no officially fixed rates in the forward exchange market, and all transactions are negotiated at free market rates. An exchange rate insurance scheme is in opera- tion in respect of receipts in U.S. dollars by Deut- sche Airbus from sales of aircraft components and supplies to Airbus Industries. Germany formally accepted the obligations of Ar- ticle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control The administration of control in respect of im- ports and exports of goods and services is operated by the Federal Ministry of Economics, the Federal Ministry of Finance, the Federal Ministry of Trans- portation, the Federal Office for Economics, the Federal Ministry for Food, Agriculture, and For- estry, the Federal Office for Food and Forestry, the Federal Office for Agricultural Marketing Organiza- tion, and the Ministries of Economics of the Laender. All banks in Germany are permitted to carry out foreign exchange transactions. Imports and Import Payments The Import List comprises 10,370 statistical posi- tions. Their treatment is as follows: commodities corresponding to 115 positions are subject to import licensing when being imported from countries in Country List C.3 The importation of 1,363 textile 2Austrian schillings, Belgian and Luxembourg francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Span- ish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 3Countries in List C are Albania, the former member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA), China, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. Countries in List A/B are those of the former Organization for European Economic Cooperation (replaced in 1961 by OECD) and Finland and all other countries except those in List C. 179 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 180 GERMANY items (under the arrangements regarding interna- tional trade in textiles) and of certain steel items is governed by bilateral agreements of the European Community (EC) with various supplier countries. Imports of coal from countries that are not members of the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) and from Austria, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Swe- den, and Switzerland are permitted within the framework of an annual global quota. The Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) of the EC covers 2,054 statistical items; most of these are subject to variable import levies, which in most cases have replaced previous barriers to imports. Payments for imports are unrestricted. Com- modity fu tures may be dealt in freely. Most transit trade transactions may also be carried out freely. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely without individual license. German and foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be exported freely. The following transactions —but not the related payments —between residents and nonresidents are subject to restriction: the chartering of foreign ships from residents of specified countries and the conclusion of related sea freight contracts; the use of foreign boats in certain inland waterway traffic; and transactions with specified countries (which do not grant reciprocal treatment) for hull and marine lia- bility insurance and aviation insurance, except pas- senger accident insurance. Exports and Export Proceeds With few exceptions, export transactions may be carried out freely. For statistical purposes, an export notification is required for all goods. Certain exports (mostly strategic goods) are subject to individual licensing. The customs authorities exercise control over export declarations. Foreign exchange pro- ceeds from exports do not have to be declared or surrendered and may be used for all payments. Proceeds from Invisibles With few exceptions, services performed for non- residents do not require a license. However, licenses are required for transactions related to specific sea services and for technical assistance through the de- livery of constructional drawings, materials, and in- structions for manufacture to residents of List C coun- tries (see footnote 3) if such assistance is for the production of goods whose exportation requires a license. There are no restrictions on the receipt of pay- ments for services rendered to nonresidents. Ger- man and foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be imported freely. Capital Residents and nonresidents may export capital freely without a license. Foreign and international bond issues on the German capital market do not require official approval. All resident banks, includ- ing legally independent foreign-owned banks, may lead-manage issues of foreign bonds denominated in deutsche mark; if a foreign deutsche mark bond is to be lead-managed by a foreign-owned German bank, the same option should be available to German-owned banks in the home country or bank in question. Domestic and foreign securities of all types may be imported and exported freely. Following the changes in regulations beginning March 12, 1981, no restrictions are applied on the sale of German money market papers and fixed- interest securities by residents to nonresidents. Nonresidents' direct investments in Germany, pur- chases of real estate in Germany for investment or personal use, and purchases of German or foreign equities do not require approval. There are no lim- itations on the disposal of legacies located in Ger- many and inherited by nonresidents or on legacies located abroad and inherited by residents. Resi- dents are not required to repatriate or surrender their foreign exchange earnings or holdings. Banks are subject to minimum reserve require- ments on the level of their foreign liabilities with maturities of less than four years; the minimum reserve ratios at the end of 1991 were, in principle, the same as those applicable to domestic liabilities, that is, 12.1 percent, 4.95 percent, and 4.15 percent on demand, time, and savings deposits, respec- tively. Exempted from reserve requirements are lia- bilities to nonresidents in foreign currency to the extent of the book claims on nonresidents in foreign currency with maturities of less than four years. Banks are free to pay interest on domestic or foreign currency balances held by nonresidents. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home or abroad and may negotiate gold in any form with residents or nonresidents, at home or abroad. There is a free gold market in Frankfurt. Imports and exports of gold in any form by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license; a customs declaration, however, is required. Imports of gold bullion and coins, unworked gold, and gold alloys are free of customs duty but are subject to value-added tax at the rate of 14 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY 181 In the case of imports of gold coins on which the assessment basis exceeds 250 percent of the fine gold value, the value-added tax is levied at a rate of 7 percent. Imports of monetary gold by the Bun- desbank are exempt from value-added tax and from customs duty. Domestic transactions in gold are subject to value-added tax at the same rate as im- ports, but under certain conditions no value-added tax is levied on transactions in gold bullion effected on gold exchanges between brokers who are admit- ted to these exchanges. Commercial imports and exports of articles containing gold are subject to the general foreign trade regulations and in all cases are liberalized. Changes During 1991 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EC-wide basis during 1991, page 557.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ghana is the Ghanaian Cedi. The exchange rate of the cedi is determined in an inter- bank market supported by weekly wholesale auc- tions conducted by the Bank of Ghana. Effective July 8,1991, the surrender of foreign exchange earn- ings from exports of goods and services other than cocoa and gold has been shifted from the Bank of Ghana to the authorized foreign exchange dealers. The exchange rate determined at the auction is being used for official valuation purposes but does not necessarily apply to transactions among autho- rized dealers, or between authorized dealers and their customers. At the auction, authorized dealers may bid either on behalf of their customers or for their own accounts. To be eligible for the auction, bids must be above $500. Rates are quoted for cer- tain other currencies,1 with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. Rates for certain nonconvertible currencies of the West African region, including the Nigerian naira, are also quoted daily but are only applied to transactions under the West African Clearing House arrangement. The other quoted nonconvertible currencies are the Gambian dalasi, the Guinean franc, the Sierra Leonean leone, the Guinea-Bissau peso, and the Mauritanian ouguiya. The authorized banks may exchange Ghanaian cur- rency for any foreign currency. On December 31, 1991, the exchange rate in the auction market was C 390 per US$1. With effect from February 1, 1988, foreign ex- change bureaus were allowed to be opened by any person, bank, or institution licensed by the Bank of Ghana. According to the regulations, foreign ex- change bureaus may purchase traveler's checks only in pounds sterling and U.S. dollars, and may pur- chase and sell currency notes only in Canadian dol- lars, deutsche mark, French (and CFA) francs, Ja- panese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. In practice, however, traveler's checks in other foreign currencies and other foreign cur- rency notes are also transacted in this market. Sellers of foreign exchange to the bureaus are not required to identify their sources of foreign ex- 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, French francs, deutsche mark, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, New Zea- land dollars, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. change. Each foreign exchange bureau is free to quote buying and selling rates. All bona fide im- ports and approved services are allowed to be funded through the bureaus. With effect from May 17, 1991, all authorized foreign exchange dealers (which include some nonbank foreign ex- change bureaus) have been subject to limits on their net open positions in foreign exchange; holdings of foreign exchange in excess of these limits are re- quired to be sold to other dealers or to the Bank of Ghana. International organizations, embassies, and simi- lar institutions are not permitted to transfer funds into Ghana through any foreign exchange bureau or to carry out foreign exchange transactions under the foreign exchange bureau scheme. A processing fee of 5 percent is levied on pur- chases and repurchases of foreign exchange related to travel, and on exchange purchases for education, medical treatment abroad, and private outward transfers. There are no arrangements for forward exchange market, currency swaps, or guaranteed exchange rates for external debt-service payments. Administration of Control The Controller of Imports and Exports in the Min- istry of Trade is empowered to prohibit or regulate all imports. The Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana administers the allocation of exchange for payments for invisibles and capital. All approved foreign exchange transactions must be effected through authorized foreign exchange dealers. Prescription of Currency Settlements between residents of Ghana and resi- dents of other countries may be made in permitted currencies. However, settlements related to transac- tions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made through clearing accounts maintained by the Bank of Ghana and the central or state banks of the countries concerned.2 Furthermore, proceeds from exports to countries with which Ghana does not have bilateral payments agreements must be re- ceived in the currency of the importing country (if that currency is among the currencies quoted by the 2Ghana maintains operative bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Poland, Romania, and Yugoslavia. 182 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA 183 Bank of Ghana) or be debited for authorized inward payments to residents of Ghana, for transfers to other official accounts related to the same country, and for transfers to the related clearing account at the Bank of Ghana. Funds not placed at the free disposal of non- residents —for example, certain types of capital proceeds—may be deposited in blocked accounts, which may be debited for authorized payments, including the purchase of approved securities. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident account status is granted to embas- sies, legations, consulates, and offices of high com- missioners in Ghana and to the non-Ghanaian members of their s ta f fs. This facility is also available to international institutions and foreign-registered companies operating in Ghana, as well as to non- resident Ghanaians. The opening of these accounts must be approved by the Bank of Ghana. The ac- counts may be credited with authorized outward payments, with transfers from other foreign ac- counts, and with the proceeds from sales of convert- ible currency. They may be debited for inward pay- ments, for transfers to other foreign accounts, and for purchases of external currencies. Nonresident accounts maintained under the provisions of bilateral payments agreements are called official accounts or territorial accounts. They may be credited with authorized outward payments by residents, with transfers from foreign accounts, with payments received through the Bank of Ghana for settlements with bilateral payments agreement countries, and with proceeds from sales of external currencies, other than restricted currencies. They may be debited for authorized inward payments to residents of Ghana, for transfers to other official accounts related to the same country, and for trans- fers to the related clearing account at the Bank of Ghana. Funds not placed at the free disposal of non- residents —for example, certain types of capital proceeds —may be deposited in blocked accounts, which may be debited for authorized payments, including the purchase of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. All imports, except for four categories (beer and stout, cigarettes, cement pipes, and roofing sheets of as- bestos and fiber) and those prohibited for nontrade reasons, are allowed. Effective January 14, 1989, all import-licensing requirements were abolished; im- porters are now required to file an import declara- tion form through the authorized banks for statisti- cal purposes only and without being subject to ap- proval. Certain imports are channeled through a bulk purchasing agent, the Ghana National Pro- curement Agency, or, for public sector imports, the Ghana Supply Commission. Most imports are effected with confirmed letters of credit established through authorized Ghanaian banks, and normally on a sight basis. For imports valued at more than $5,000 ( f .o .b . ), authorized banks are not allowed to make payments against letters of credit or bank d ra f ts unless the import documents include a clean report of findings issued by international agencies with respect to the goods and unless they verify the price, quality, and quan- tity in the country of origin or shipment. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the specific approval of the Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana, and documentary evidence must support all applications. Payments for invis- ibles related to authorized imports are not re- stricted. Most foreign exchange purchases for invis- ible payments are subject to a processing fee of 5 percent ad valorem, with the exception of invisible payments relating to imports. Transfers of normal bank charges payable to over- seas bankers for import payments are generally au- thorized. Commission payments on imports are permitted up to a limit of 3 percent of f .o .b. value. Freight charges may be paid to the local shipping agents; the transfer of funds to cover such charges is normally permitted, provided that the application is properly documented. With the exception of com- panies financed with locally raised capital, nonresi- dent companies are, in principle, permitted to transfer abroad freely their net profits after tax; until February 1, 1989, however, transfers of profits were being authorized only on a limited basis. Since Feb- ruary 1, 1989, all bona fide requests for transfers of profits and dividends have been eligible for funding through the foreign exchange auction market. The transfer of profits by companies that have been fi- nanced with locally raised capital is not permitted. Nonresident travelers may take out any unused foreign currency that they brought in and declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited, as are exports of iron and steel scrap. Cocoa and certain other agricultural products are exported through the Cocoa Board, and diamonds are exported ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 184 GHANA through the Precious Metal Marketing Corporation. Exports of cocoa are subject to an export tax that is calculated as the difference between export pro- ceeds, on the one hand, and payments to farmers together with the Cocoa Board's operational costs, on the other, if the proceeds exceed the payments. With the exceptions noted below, exporters are required to collect and repatriate in full the proceeds from their exports within 60 days of shipment; pro- ceeds from exports of nontraditional products may be sold in a foreign exchange bureau upon receipt. Exporters are generally allowed to retain up to 35 percent of their export proceeds. However, the retention ratio is 45 percent for the Ashanti Gold Mining Company, 20 percent for log exporters, and 2 percent for the Cocoa Board. The retention scheme does not apply to exports of residual oil and electricity. However, receipts from the exportation of electricity are not required to be surrendered to the Bank of Ghana. Retained earnings were tradi- tionally held in accounts abroad for financing essen- tial imports. On April 28,1989, a new procedure for the repatriation of retained earnings to Ghana was introduced. Under the new procedure, foreign ex- change retention entitlements are credited to the exporters' foreign exchange accounts with banks located in Ghana. Provided that payments from the foreign exchange accounts of exporters are sup- ported by relevant documents, retained export earnings may be sold at the foreign exchange bu- reaus or be used to import goods through a bank, to purchase airline tickets, or for foreign travel, for medical services or educational expenses abroad, and for any other approved invisible payments. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold to autho- rized dealers. Foreign currency notes may be im- ported freely. Repurchases of foreign exchange ac- quired for the purpose of foreign travel are subject to a processing fee of 5 percent. Capital Foreign investments in Ghana require the prior approval of the Ghana Investment Center if they are to benefit from the facilities available under the In- vestment Code of 1981, under which approved in- vestments are guaranteed, in principle, the right to transfer profits and, in the event of sale or liquida- tion, capital proceeds; tax holidays and initial capital allowances are also available for such investments. The code stipulates that the assets of foreign inves- tors may not be expropriated. Disputes over the amount of compensation are settled in accordance with the established procedure for conciliation—for example, through arbitration by the International Center for Settlements of Investment Disputes or the United Nations Commission on International Trade and Law. Certain areas of economic activity are not open to foreigners. The proceeds of the sales of foreign ownership to Ghanaian nationals are held in blocked, non-interest-bearing accounts with the Bank of Ghana; these accounts carry an exchange rate guarantee. Transfers of such funds are being effected gradually. Under a supplementary Investment Code issued in July 1985, incentives are provided to promote foreign investments that promise to be net foreign exchange earners. The main features of the 1981 and 1985 codes, which offer incentives and guaran- tees to encourage foreign investments in areas other than petroleum and mining (already covered by a Minerals Code), are as follows: (1) exemption from customs duties in respect of the importation of plant, machinery, and equipment; (2) more favor- able depreciation or capital allowances; (3) permis- sion to operate an external account in which at least 25 percent of the investing company's foreign ex- change earnings may be retained for procuring ma- chinery and equipment, spare parts, and raw mate- rials, for servicing of debt, and for transfers of dividends and profits; (4) guarantee for the remit- tance of foreign capital in the event of sale or liqui- dation; and (5) protection against expropriation. The minimum requirement of investment capital to qualify under the codes is $60,000 for joint ventures with a Ghanaian partner and $100,000 for enter- prises that are wholly foreign owned. All outgoing capital movements must be ap- proved by the Bank of Ghana; applications for such transfers must be supported by documentary evi- dence and are considered on their merits. Transfers to beneficiaries under wills and intestacies are ap- proved, provided that all local indebtedness has been settled. Requests for the transfer of funds rep- resenting personal assets of foreign residents in Ghana who emigrate are considered individually on their merits. Applications must be supported by appropriate documentation showing that the sav- ings are genuine and that no illegal transfer of capi- tal is involved. Proceeds from the liquidation of the real assets of foreign nationals leaving Ghana may be approved for transfer in one lump sum or may be spread over a period of time, depending on the amount. Loan and overdraft facilities to resident com- panies controlled by nonresidents require the indi- vidual approval of the Bank of Ghana. Residents who are private persons are not normally granted ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA 185 foreign exchange for the acquisition of securities or personal real estate abroad. Transactions in se- curities are controlled to ensure that capital is not transferred abroad. In respect of portfolio invest- ments, residents must obtain approval for any switch in their holdings of securities issued by non- residents. Private sector and commercial bank bor- rowing require the approval of the Bank of Ghana, as do private import credits for machinery and equipment valued at $100,000 or more; foreign bor- rowing by Ghanaian nationals is subject to certain government guidelines. Lending to nonresidents is prohibited, except for export credits; these require exchange control approval and are normally limited to 60 days. Under a system of external accounts for debt- service payments introduced in 1980 to enable export-oriented industries to receive external aid, such industries are allowed to operate foreign ex- change accounts (in addition to their regular reten- tion accounts) with funds earmarked from export earnings for the purpose of debt-service payments. The opening of such accounts requires the approval of the Committee on Suppliers' Credits and the Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana; the latter also monitors receipts and pay- ments out of these accounts. Such accounts have been established for the diamond sector as well as for the fishing and timber companies financed with suppliers' credits. Gold Domestic transactions in gold, as well as imports and exports, may be authorized by the State Gold Mining Corporation in collaboration with the Bank of Ghana, and certain domestic sales may be carried out by permit under the Gold Mining Products Pro- tection Ordinance. With these exceptions, Gha- naian residents may not buy or borrow any gold from, or sell or lend any gold to, any person other than an authorized dealer. Imports of gold other than those by or on behalf of the monetary au- thorities are not normally licensed. The import duty on bullion, partly worked gold, and other gold is levied at a uniform rate of 30 percent. The gold mines export their output in semirefined form. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement May 17. The net open foreign exchange positions of all authorized foreign exchange dealers (which included some nonbank foreign exchange bureaus) were subject to limits, and holdings of foreign ex- change in excess of these limits were required to be sold to other dealers or to the Bank of Ghana. July 8. The surrender of all foreign exchange earn- ings from exports of goods and services, other than cocoa and gold, was shifted from the Bank of Ghana to the interbank market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Greece is the Greek Drachma. The Greek authorities operate a managed float for the drachma. Exchange rates for the U.S. dollar, the main intervention currency, and other currencies1 are determined during the daily fixing session, in which the Bank of Greece and the authorized com- mercial banks participate. In the domestic spot ex- change market, the commercial banks quote their own rates. On December 31, 1991, buying and sell- ing rates in the interbank market were Dr 174.748 and Dr 175.800, respectively, per US$1. The com- mercial banks may levy a commission on all foreign exchange transactions on the domestic forward ex- change market. Forward cover is extended only to commercial transactions carried out by residents for a maturity period of up to 3 months for imports and 12 months for exports; the exchange rates applied by the commercial banks in these cases are based on those determined daily by the Bank of Greece. For- ward rates are also quoted to nonresident banks, provided that relevant contracts involve ECU- related transactions for a maturity period of up to three months. Exchange risk is undertaken by the Bank of Greece. Greece is a member of the European Monetary System (EMS). The drachma is included in the ECU basket, but Greece does not participate in the ex- change rate mechanism of the EMS. Administration of Control Foreign exchange regulations are administered by the Bank of Greece. Commercial banks are authorized to carry out all the necessary for- malities for the settlement of imports and exports. In almost all cases, they automatically grant ap- proval for imports and prepare the documentation for exports according to exchange regulations. The commercial banks are also authorized to un- dertake transactions in foreign exchange for invis- ibles and capital. 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Cyprus pounds, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, European Currency Units (ECUs), French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Por- tuguese escudos, and Spanish pesetas. Settlements with all countries may be made in any convertible foreign currency or through deposit accounts in convertible drachmas. Accounts in Foreign Currency and Convertible Drachmas Accounts in Foreign Currency. These accounts may be maintained by nonresident persons and entities, foreigners of Greek origin residing abroad, Greek nationals residing and working abroad (including seamen), Greek residents, and nonprofit private legal entities with a head office in Greece. These accounts may be credited with foreign exchange brought into Greece and with foreign bank notes brought into Greece and declared upon entry. Prin- cipal and interest on these accounts are freely trans- ferable abroad. Savings and time deposits may be opened for up to 12 months. The Bank of Greece sets an upper limit on interest on these accounts, with the exception of the rate on residents' deposits, which is fixed by the Bank of Greece, and of the rate on nonresidents' deposits, which is negotiable. Accounts in Convertible Drachmas. Nonresidents may open sight and time deposits in convertible drachmas. The interest rate on time deposits for a period of up to six months is negotiable. The com- mercial banks operating in Greece are allowed to lend to credit institutions abroad in convertible drachmas in amounts not exceeding their total de- posits in convertible drachmas. The maturity of such loans can be up to six months, and the interest rate is negotiable. Blocked Accounts. Claims of non-European Com- munity (EC) residents denominated in drachmas that are not derived from imported foreign currency must be deposited in blocked accounts. The with- drawal of funds from these accounts is permitted only with the approval of the Bank of Greece. Pay- ments abroad from these accounts are allowed with the approval of the Bank of Greece. Imports and Import Payments Approval for imports is granted automatically, before or after shipment of goods, by the commer- cial banks, and it implies that the required amount of foreign exchange will be made available. Special import licenses are required for textiles and iron and steel products that come from low-cost countries; 186 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE 187 these products are under surveillance according to EC quotas. Special regulations govern imports of certain items, such as medicines, narcotics, and motion picture films. Settlement of the value of im- ported goods must take place within 60 days of the date of arrival at the first Greek port; this provision, however, is not enforced. Import payments are not subject to official regula- tions; in almost all cases, they are effected on the basis of agreements between the contracting parties. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are granted automatically for expenses incidental to authorized transactions. Residents traveling abroad for family reasons or tourism are entitled to the equivalent of ECU 1,400 for each trip to EC countries and Cyprus and to the equivalent of $700 for each trip to all other countries. International credit cards may be used to pay for expenses incurred abroad up to the equivalent of ECU 300 a year. In addition to this allowance, trav- elers participating in group tours are granted an amount based on a cost declaration submitted by the travel agency. Travelers may also take with them a maximum of Dr 10,000 in Greek bank notes. Foreign exchange for business travel is allowed up to the equivalent of $2,000 a trip without restriction on the number of trips that may be taken in a year. International business credit cards may also be used to pay for tourist expenses incurred abroad, such as hotels, tickets, car hire, and conference and seminar fees, without limit. For medical treatment abroad, the required foreign exchange is made available. For studies abroad, the amount covering living ex- penses is granted; in addition, foreign exchange is granted to cover tuition fees, books, etc. Payments of interest, profits, and dividends are governed by the regulations that are applied to capi- tal transfers to Greece (see section on Capital be- low). Remittances for family maintenance and earn- ings by foreign workers are permitted, subject to documentary requirements regarding proof of need and source of income. Foreign banks operating in Greece are permitted to repatriate their profits, irre- spective of the nature of their operations. Nonresidents leaving Greece may take out foreign bank notes up to the equivalent of $1,000 within a year of their arrival in Greece, as well as traveler's checks and other means of payment in their name irrespective of amount; they may also take out Dr 20,000 in Greek bank notes. Larger amounts in foreign bank notes can be taken out no later than December 31 of the calendar year following the year in which the nonresident entered Greece, provided that they were declared upon entry into Greece. Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds must be surrendered within 180 days of the date of shipment of the goods. In special cases, the authorities may extend this time limit by approving time settlement of the value of exports. Export goods are not subject to the value-added tax. Exporters are allowed to maintain 10 percent of their proceeds in foreign currency accounts with banks operating in Greece, provided that their earned ex- port proceeds in the previous calendar year exceed $100,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange earnings representing pay- ments for services must be surrendered within 45 days of the date of receipt. Earnings from ocean- going shipping are exempted from the surrender requirements, but shipowners must cover their dis- bursements and expenses in Greece by converting foreign exchange into drachmas. Greek residents may bring in any amount of for- eign exchange, but must declare it upon entry if they wish to take it out on their next departure and not later than December 31 of the calendar year following the year in which they entered Greece; they may also bring in a maximum of Dr 10,000 in bank notes. Nonresident travelers may import any amount of foreign currency and need not declare it, provided they do not intend to take out amounts in excess of the equivalent of $1,000. Traveler's checks and other means of payment in a traveler's name are not sub- ject to a limit. Travelers may also bring in a max- imum of Dr 100,000 in Greek bank notes. Capital Direct investments in Greece undertaken by non- EC residents in accordance with the Act of the Gov- ernor of the Bank of Greece 825/1986 are subject to verification, and the repatriation of the liquidation proceeds and the exportation of the profits, divi- dends, interest, and amortization of funds are free. Investments in real estate in Greece by non-EC resi- dents are permitted, and the proceeds of liquidation can be repatriated after five years following the con- version of the foreign currency into drachmas. Direct investments by residents of Greece in EC countries are permitted. Investment in securities and real estate in other EC countries is freely permitted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 188 GREECE Direct investments and investments in real estate or in securities by residents of Greece in non-EC countries require prior approval. Greek firms in manufacturing, mining, and hotels and those in the services sector are allowed to borrow in foreign exchange from banks, foreign legal persons, and individuals residing abroad without prior approval, provided that the maturity of the loans is at least 12 months. For exporting firms, the maturity of the loans can be less than 12 months, provided that the firms service their loans with their export earnings. Bank and nonbank loans from abroad, which do not fall into the above cate- gories and do not qualify as direct investments, are subject to prior approval. Transfers abroad of the liquidation proceeds of listed and unlisted securities, as well as treasury bills and long-term government bonds and bonds of public sector entities, are permitted, provided that foreign currency was used to purchase them. The transfer abroad of the liquidation proceeds of un- listed securities by non-EC residents is subject to prior approval. Legislative Decree 2687/1953, Presidential Decree 207/1987, and Act of the Governor of the Bank of Greece 825/1986 govern direct investments. Gold Greece or to the Athens Stock Exchange. Holders of gold coins acquired in the free market that existed before December 22, 1965 may sell them without any formality to the Bank of Greece or to an autho- rized bank at the official price. Imports of gold against payment in foreign exchange require a spe- cial license; licenses are normally issued to im- porters for distribution to jewelers and dentists. Gold bars and gold coins may be imported for other than commercial purposes when no payment in foreign exchange is involved. Exports of gold other than by the Bank of Greece are not approved except when gold bars or coins are brought in by travelers and declared upon entry, in which case they may be re-exported after being approved by the Bank of Greece. Changes During 1991 Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EC-wide basis during 1991, page 557.) Payments for Invisibles May 1. Travel allowances for travel to EC countries were raised to ECU 1,400 from ECU 1,200. Residents may freely purchase new gold sov- ereigns from the Bank of Greece through licensed stockbrokers at a price set by the Bank of Greece. These gold coins may be resold only to the Bank of Capital May 1. Greek residents were permitted to invest freely in securities and real estate in other EC markets. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Grenada is the Eastern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 per US$1. On December 31, 1991, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the ECCB in its transactions with commercial banks were EC$2.69 and EC$2.71, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. An exchange tax of 5 percent is levied on all sales of foreign exchange by commercial banks, except for payments for imports of inputs by local manufacturers certified by the Indus- trial Development Corporation, payments for imports of some basic foods and drugs, remittances to cover the expenses of university education abroad and those related to medical services, transactions of the Grenada Development Bank with the European In- vestment Bank, and transactions by any person or corporate body approved under the Hotels Ordi- nance. As of July 15, 1991, sales of foreign exchange repatriated by Grenadians living abroad have been exempted from the foreign exchange tax. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial bank- ing sector. Administration of Control Exchange control, which is administered by the Ministry of Finance, applies to all countries. The Ministry delegates to authorized dealers the au- thority to approve some import payments and cer- tain other outward payments. The exchange control directives do not apply to transactions with South Africa. The Trade Division of the Ministry of Fi- nance administers trade control. Arrears are main- tained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARicoM)2 must 1The Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Ja- maica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. be made either through external accounts (in East- ern Caribbean dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned. Settlements with resi- dents of the former Sterling Area countries, other than CARICOM countries, may be made in pounds sterling, in any other former Sterling Area currency, or in Eastern Caribbean dollars to and from external accounts. Settlements with residents of countries outside the former Sterling Area other than South Africa may be made in any foreign currency3 or through an external account in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Nonresident Accounts External accounts may be opened for nonresi- dents by authorized dealers without reference to the Ministry of Finance. These accounts are main- tained in Eastern Caribbean dollars. They may be credited with proceeds from the sale of foreign cur- rencies, with transfers from other external ac- counts, with bank interest (payable on external ac- counts), and with payments by residents for which general or specific permission has been given by the Ministry. They may be debited for payments to resi- dents of Grenada, for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel or business purposes, and for any other payments covered by delegated authority to authorized dealers. Other debits and any over- drafts require individual approval. Foreign Currency Accounts Residents and nonresidents are permitted to open foreign currency accounts without referring to the Ministry of Finance. Such accounts may be freely debited but can be credited only with foreign exchange earned or received from outside the ECCB area. Imports and Import Payments On May 1,1991, Grenada implemented the Com- mon External Tariff of the Caribbean Common Mar- ket. All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Most goods may be freely imported, but imports of the following products are prohibited: industrial gas; cigarettes; processed pork products; curry 3Foreign currencies include all currencies other than the East- ern Caribbean dollar. 189 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 190 GRENADA powder; war toys; mops; children's garments; di- othene plastic sheets and corrugated cardboard for the banana industry; solar water heaters; electric accumulators for automobiles; and aluminum win- dows, doors, and associated items. Certain other commodities are subject to quantitative restrictions and require an import license. On September 1, 1991, the import license requirement for goods orig- inating from the member countries of the Organiza- tion of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) was eliminated. Payments for documented imports are free of re- strictions. Payments for other authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence (invoices and customs war- rants) to the Ministry of Finance. Advance pay- ments for imports also require prior approval from this Ministry. Imports of equipment and spare parts are exempt from import duties. Also exempt are imports by the commodity associations that are intended for quality improvements in the growing or packaging of bananas, cocoa, and nutmeg. Imports not exempt from customs duty are subject to a value-added tax of 20 percent of c.i.f. value, with the exception of imports of raw materials for use in local manufactur- ing of finished products, which are subject to an 8 percent value-added tax. Imports of certain basic consumer items, brewery products, and cigarettes from countries outside the CARICOM are subject to special surcharges of 10 percent, 25 percent, and 35 percent, respectively. Payments for Invisibles With the exception of outward remittances for education, medical treatment, gifts, family mainte- nance, profits, dividends, insurance premiums, proceeds from sales of local property, royalties, and management fees, payments for invisibles require exchange control approval. Authority has been del- egated to authorized dealers to provide basic alloca- tions of foreign exchange for a few types of pay- ments. These include foreign travel (for which up to EC$5,000 a person a calendar year may be allocated for private travel and up to EC$10,000 a person for business travel), subscriptions to magazines and periodicals, and life insurance premiums on policies contracted before June 1975. With the exception of tourism, applications for additional amounts or for purposes for which there is no basic allocation nor- mally are approved by the Ministry of Finance, pro- vided that no unauthorized transfer of capital is involved. Applications in respect of tourism in ex- cess of EC$5,000 a person are considered on their merits. The cost of transportation to any destination may be settled in domestic currency and is not de- ducted from the travel allocation. Nonresident trav- elers may export any foreign currency they pre- viously brought in, with the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited, and spe- cific licenses are required for the exportation of cer- tain goods to any destination. There are no formal regulations to ensure that export proceeds in for- eign currencies are surrendered within a certain period after the date of shipment, but the collection of export proceeds is mandatory. Proceeds from Invisibles The collection of the foreign currency proceeds from invisibles is mandatory. Travelers may freely bring in notes and coins in Eastern Caribbean cur- rency or in any foreign currency. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. The purchase by residents of for- eign currency securities and of real estate abroad for private purposes is not normally permitted. Certifi- cates of title to foreign currency securities held by residents must be lodged with an authorized depos- itory in Grenada, and earnings on these securities must be repatriated. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances to nonresidents, require exchange control approval, which is normally granted subject to the payment of estate and succession duties. There are certain al- lowances for cash gifts (EC$500 a person a year) and for emigration purposes. The Ministry of Finance will also consider transfer applications from foreign nationals who have resided in Grenada and are proceeding to take up permanent residence abroad. Nonresidents may make direct investment in Gre- nada with exchange control approval. The remittance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds from, such investment is permitted, provided that all liabilities related to the investment have been discharged and that the original investment was registered with the Ministry of Finance. Nonresidents may acquire real estate in Grenada for private purposes with funds in foreign currency; local currency financing is not or- dinarily permitted. The repatriation of the proceeds from the realization of such investments requires the approval of the Ministry of Finance. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is re- quired for residents to borrow abroad or for nonresi- dents to borrow in Grenada. Authorized dealers ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA 191 may freely assume short-term liability positions in foreign currencies for the financing of approved transfers in respect of both trade and nontrade transactions. They may also freely accept deposits from nonresidents. Any borrowing abroad by au- thorized dealers to finance their domestic opera- tions requires the approval of the Ministry of Fi- nance. Effective March 15, 1991, all restrictions on transfers of Eastern Caribbean dollars from Gre- nada to countries served by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank were eliminated. Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, and industrial users are not per- mitted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes. Imports of gold are permitted for industrial purposes only and are subject to customs duties and charges. The Ministry of Finance issues licenses to import gold. The exportation of gold is not normally permitted. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement July 15. Sales of foreign exchange repatriated by Grenadians living abroad were exempted from the foreign exchange tax. Imports and Import Payments May 1. Grenada implemented the Common Ex- ternal Tariff of the Caribbean Common Market. August 16. Mops and children's garments were placed on the negative list of imports. September 1. The import license requirement for goods originating from OECS countries was eliminated. Capital March 15. All restrictions on transfers of Eastern Caribbean dollars from Grenada to countries served by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank were eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guatemala is the Guatemalan Quetzal. Guatemala maintains a unified exchange system under which the Bank of Guatemala auc- tions foreign exchange but fixes both the buying rate and a base auction rate. Bidding is restricted to a range of Q 0.05 on each side of the base auction rate, which is, in turn, ad jus ted once every three weeks on the basis of the movement of the ex- change rate during the preceding three weeks. The buying rate is determined by the base rate minus Q 0.05. On December 31, 1991, the buying and selling rates of the Bank of Guatemala in terms of the U.S. dollar were Q 5.01505 per US$1 and Q 5.06520 per US$1, respectively. Certain foreign exchange operations of the Bank of Guatemala (for example, servicing of its external debt disbursed before June 6, 1986) that have no economic effect are conducted at an accounting ex- change rate of Q 1 per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain currencies other than the U.S. dol- lar1 are officially quoted, mainly on the basis of their rates in the New York market. The Bank of Guatemala does not issue new exchange rate guar- antees, but it honors guarantees granted before the end of October 1989. There are no other arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. On January 27, 1947, Guatemala formally ac- cepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control The Foreign Exchange Department of the Bank of Guatemala is in charge of administering the Transi- tional Law on the Foreign Exchange Regime. For- eign exchange transactions of the public sector are carried out exclusively through the Bank of Guatemala; those of the private sector are made through banks authorized by the Monetary Board. Exports of goods must be registered in the Foreign Exchange Department to guarantee repatriation of the corresponding foreign exchange proceeds. Arrears are maintained with respect to certain external payments. Prescription of Currency In practice, most transactions in foreign exchange are denominated in U.S. dollars. Transactions with other Central American countries are settled in U.S. dollars or in domestic currency in accordance with special payments agreements. Imports and Import Payments Imports of most goods are unrestricted and re- quire neither registration nor a license. Import li- censes issued by the Ministry of Economy are re- quired for imports of coffee beans and coffee plants, explosives, lead, poultry, milk, eggs, sugar, wheat flour, basic food grains, cottonseed, tallow, and a few other goods. Foreign exchange for import pay- ments may be purchased at the interbank exchange market rate in effect at the public sale of foreign exchange. The fund for public sale of foreign ex- change is established by the Bank of Guatemala and consists of 75 percent of the total amount of foreign exchange by banks authorized to trade in foreign exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy. Exports of a few other items are prohibited, including the exportation of gold (unless the Bank of Guatemala issues a special export license) and silver in any form. Exporters must obtain an export permit issued by the Foreign Exchange Department before the Guatemalan customs can authorize shipment of the merchandise; the granting of export permits is con- tingent on agreement to sell export proceeds to the Bank of Guatemala or an authorized bank within 45 days of the date of issuance (this period may be extended to 90 days). In the case of exports to Central America, there are clearing arrangements among the central banks to settle payments in their own national currencies, U.S. dollars, or barter. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deut- sche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Invisible transactions relating to travel outside the country, school fees, study expenses, international 192 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA 193 credit card payments, and others are permitted without restriction. Capital All capital transactions take place without limita- tion. Investment in the petroleum sector is governed by special legislation. Gold The Bank of Guatemala may buy and sell gold coins and bullion either directly or through the banks and is entitled to require the surrender, di- rectly or through authorized banks, of the gold holdings of any resident. The Bank sells gold to domestic artistic or industrial users, in accordance with the directives of the Monetary Board. The ex- portation of gold is prohibited except when the Bank of Guatemala issues a special export license. Gold is imported only by the Bank of Guatemala. Changes During 1991 Imports and Import Payments June 19. A preferential exchange rate that was applied to petroleum in the form of an exchange rate guarantee was eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guinea is the Guinean Franc. Guinea maintains a floating exchange rate system, under which the exchange rate against the SDR is set in weekly fixing sessions and is quoted in terms of the SDR. The private sector and public enter- prises, through the intermediation of commercial banks, may sell and purchase foreign exchange for all import and invisible payments, except for limita- tions placed on purchases for tourist travel and the transfer abroad of salaries by nonresident workers. All other public sector transactions take place at the latest fixing rate. The rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the rates of these curren- cies against the SDR, as published by the IMF. The exchange rate for the CFA franc results from the relationship between this currency and the French franc. Settlements under the bilateral payments agreement with China are effected in renminbi at the rate resulting from the current GF/SDR and SDR/yuan rates. On December 31, 1991, the official exchange rate for the SDR was GF 1,150 per SDR 1. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Cen- tral Bank, which has delegated its authority to the commercial banks with respect to (1) the approval of import forms (descriptifs d'importation) and import application forms (demandes descriptives d'importa- tion) for amounts below $200,000; (2) allocation of foreign exchange to travelers holding foreign airline tickets (travelers holding tickets issued by Compa- gnie nationale air guinee must apply to the Central Bank for their travel allowances); and (3) manage- ment of foreign currency accounts opened in the name of nonresidents. All settlements with foreign countries, including payments for imports, require approval from the Exchange Department of the Central Bank. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made in curren- cies prescribed by, and through accounts estab- lished under, the provisions of the agreements.1 Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (for Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote dTvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with other countries are made in designated convertible cur- rencies quoted by the Central Bank. All current transactions effected in Guinea must be settled in Guinean francs. Resident Foreign Currency Accounts The opening of deposit accounts in foreign cur- rency by residents at the domestic commercial banks is subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: nonresident transferable accounts in foreign cur- rencies, and nonresident accounts in Guinean francs. The opening of a nonresident account is subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank. Convertible Accounts Accounts in convertible Guinean francs may be opened by residents and nonresidents. Such ac- counts are to be credited with deposits in foreign exchange, irrespective of its origin. Exporters may hold up to 25 percent of their foreign exchange proceeds in convertible Guinean francs. Such ac- counts may be debited freely and converted by com- mercial banks into foreign currencies without prior authorization from the Central Bank. These ac- counts carry an interest premium of 2 percentage points over deposit accounts in Guinean francs. Imports and Import Payments Almost all products may be freely imported into Guinea (except armaments, ammunition, and nar- cotics). Petroleum products may be imported only by the public sector. Mining companies may, how- ever, import crude oil directly. All imports of less than $200,000 require authori- zation, which is granted by the commercial 1 Guinea maintains bilateral payments agreements with China, Cuba, and Viet Nam; all agreements are inoperative. 194 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA 195 banks on behalf of the Central Bank. Two types of authorization are given: (1) imports with access to foreign exchange provided at rates determined dur- ing weekly fixing sessions; and (2) imports financed with importers' own foreign exchange resources (autorisation sans achat de devises). To obtain authorization, importers are required to fill out either an import form (for imports valued at less than $5,000) or an import application request form (for imports valued between $5,000 and $200,000), on which they must provide information on products to be imported, including prices, quan- tity, quality, and financing terms. For imports with access to the auction market, authorization is given only after prices, quality, and terms of financing (for import credits) are verified. Requests for foreign exchange must be submitted through commercial banks at the weekly fixing sessions. Certain imports are effected outside the auction system. This category comprises goods for which foreign exchange is derived from sources other than the official foreign exchange resources of Guinea and mainly covers imports by four "mixed-economy companies" (the Friguia Company; the Guinea Bauxite Company; AREDOR, the diamond company; and AUG, the gold company) and foreign embassies. All products are subject to a 10 percent turnover tax, custom duties (DFE) of 8 percent, and custom charges (DDE) of 7 percent, with the following ex- ceptions: animals, flour, sugar, pharmaceutical products, and fertilizers are subject to a 6 percent DFE and 2 percent DDE; and imports for the food industry, cement, and agriculture machinery are subject to an 8 percent DFE and a 2 percent DDE. In addition, a surtax of 20 percent or 30 percent is imposed on all luxury goods, and a surtax of 30- 60 percent is levied on nonalcoholic beverages and certain wines and spirits. Importers of consumer goods are required to provide 25 percent of the value of imports (c . i . f .) in domestic currency as advance payment of customs duties upon filing the import request. The import tariff payable by the four mixed enterprises in the mining sector is sub- ject to special agreements. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles through the official foreign exchange market require central bank au- thorization. Payments for freight and insurance in connection with imports are authorized as part of the import operation. No official exchange is granted for other types of insurance with com- panies abroad. Allocations for tourism, other than for the purchase of airline tickets, are limited to $800 a person a trip, with a maximum of four trips a calendar year; each application is considered indi- vidually. Government officials on official missions are permitted an allowance of $140 a day. In cases of serious illness, when a doctor's certificate is submit- ted, residents may be granted foreign exchange for medical care abroad or may be permitted to transfer exchange for the care of relatives receiving medical treatment abroad. Payments for family support through the official market may be made up to monthly amounts deter- mined on the merits of the case; for officially recog- nized study abroad, the exchange allocation is made on a case-by-case basis. The Investment Law of 1985 (as amended in 1987) guarantees that profits earned from approved for- eign investments may be transferred abroad, and that certified dividends and royalties may be trans- ferred in full. It also provides for certain tax incen- tives. The transfer abroad of salaries by expatriate workers is authorized up to a limit of 50 percent of base earnings, and only for those contracts ap- proved by the Ministry of Labor. The exportation of Guinean currency is limited to GF 5,000 a person a trip. Exports and Export Proceeds All private sector exports require domiciliation with a commercial bank and submission of an export description for purposes of (1) preventing shortages of goods needed for domestic consump- tion; and (2) identifying capital outflows. Exports of the mining sector are exempted f rom this requirement. For the following commodities, special authoriza- tion from designated agencies is required: wild ani- mals (dead or alive), edible animals, articles of his- toric or ethnographic interest, jewelry, articles made of precious metals, and plants and seeds. Foreign planters may be granted special transfer privileges related to the quantity of pineapples, ba- nanas, or citrus fruits exported, and private traders may also be permitted to retain a part of their export proceeds in order to finance authorized imports. The mixed-economy companies are allowed to re- tain their export proceeds abroad, to pay for their imports and operating requirements, and to service their external debt. Proceeds from Invisibles In principle, exchange proceeds accruing to resi- dents in respect of invisibles must be surrendered. The importation of foreign bank notes and traveler's ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 196 GUINEA checks is permitted freely, subject to declaration on entry; residents, however, must surrender both to commercial banks within 15 days of re- turn. Certain residents, by v ir tue of their occupa- tion, are authorized to deposit foreign exchange proceeds in their foreign currency accounts. The importation of Guinean currency is limited to GF 5,000 a traveler a trip. Capital All capital transfers through the official exchange market require authorization. Outward capital transfers by Guinean nationals through the official market are prohibited. The Investment Law of 1985 provides guarantees against the nationalization of foreign investments in the industrial and mining sectors. It also provides for preferential tax and customs treatment applica- ble to foreign investments and for the transfer of profits, interest, amortization, and liquidation pro- ceeds of such investments. Small and medium-size enterprises in which at least GF 50 million is in- vested over a three-year period may receive import tax reductions and exemptions from other taxes for a period of eight to ten years. Exemptions for up to 15 years may be granted on long-term investments of particular importance to the economy. The mini- mum foreign investment in Guinean enterprises is GF 10 million. Guinean nationals must have control- ling interests in enterprises requiring foreign in- vestment of GF 10 million to GF 50 million. Gold Since June 1990, the Central Bank has pur- chased gold in Guinean f rancs only. Since the monetary re fo rm of 1986, Guinea has issued fine silver commemorative coins of GF 10,000, which are legal tender. Transactions in nonmonetary gold are not subject to restriction. Only the expor- tation of gold is subject to prior authorization by the Central Bank. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement January 2. The commercial banks were required to surrender 20 percent of foreign exchange they have purchased from the public to the Central Bank. February 1. The exchange arrangement was changed from the U.S. dollar peg to the SDR peg. The rates for other currencies against the Guinean franc would be determined on the basis of the rates of these currencies against the SDR, as published by the IMF. During the year, the exchange rate of the Guinean franc was adjusted gradually from GF 967.44 per SDR 1 on January 1 to GF 1,150 per SDR on December 31. Payments for Invisibles February 28. The daily foreign allowance for gov- ernment officials traveling abroad on official busi- ness was raised to $140. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Guinea-Bissau is the Guinea- Bissau Peso. There are two exchange markets: the official and free (parallel) exchange market. Until January 14, 1991, the external value of the official rate was adjusted in terms of the SDR at relatively short intervals on the basis of estimated domestic price developments. On January 14, 1991, Guinea- Bissau adopted a crawling peg policy in the context of a monetary arrangement with Portugal. Follow- ing an initial adjustment of the official rate against the Portuguese escudo, the intervention currency, to the free market exchange rate, the official rate has been adjusted at regular intervals at a predeter- mined monthly average rate based on the expected inflation differential between Guinea-Bissau and Portugal. When the actual inflation differential was larger than anticipated, the official rate was ad- justed discretely on two occasions during 1991 in order to reduce the gap between the official and the free market rates. On December 31,1991, the official selling rate for the Portuguese escudo (Esc) was PG 37.9 per Esc 1, and the official selling rate for the U.S. dollar was PG 5,118.90 per US$1. On the same date, the spread between the official and free market rates was less than 1 percent for the Portuguese escudo and 13.3 percent for the U.S. dollar. The free exchange market is estimated to have a significant quantita- tive role in the Guinea-Bissau economy. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign currency in Guinea-Bissau. There are no arrangements for forward cover against ex- change risk in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Guinea-Bissau exercises control over foreign exchange transactions involv- ing the use of foreign exchange belonging to or administered by it. Foreign exchange transactions effec ted by commercial banks with resources de- rived from sources other than those of the Central Bank are in general not controlled by the Central Bank. Residents are permitted to sell foreign ex- change in their possession without revealing its sources. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Settlements with foreign countries are normally made in foreign currency, although certain external obligations have been settled with goods on a very few occasions in the past. Guinea-Bissau is a partici- pant in the West African Clearing House, which includes the member countries of the Central Bank of West African States (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone. Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts Nonresidents may open demand and time ac- counts in foreign currency with commercial banks and may use balances on these accounts without restriction, except that prior notice for withdrawals above certain pre-established limits is required. Residents may also maintain these accounts: (1) if they are authorized to engage in foreign currency transactions; or (2) if they receive income in foreign currency under contracts with nonresidents. Banks may pay interest of up to 4 percent a year on de- mand accounts in foreign currency, whereas inter- est rates on time deposits may be negotiated freely (at the end of 1991, these rates ranged from 6 per- cent to 8 percent). Imports and Import Payments All imports, regardless of whether they involve use of official or free market foreign exchange, re- quire a prior import license (Boletim de Registo Previo de Importagao) issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism. Since official availability of foreign exchange in the country is not considered when licenses are issued, import licenses are not a foreign exchange allocation instrument, and their posses- sion does not guarantee the importers' access to the official exchange market. Except for a short negative list, licenses are issued automatically after verifica- tion of invoice prices for goods to be imported. Importers are free to arrange for payment through the banking system with their own foreign exchange or foreign exchange purchased on the par- allel market. However, payments for imports with foreign exchange purchased from the Central Bank or administered by the Central Bank require autho- rization from the Central Bank, and authorization is 197 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 198 GUINEA-BISSAU granted on the basis of priority of products involved and availability of foreign exchange. On December 31, 1991, the state monopoly over imports of petroleum and petroleum products was abolished. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles by the public sector at the official exchange rate are effected through the Cen- tral Bank. As in the case of imports, payments for invisibles by the private sector at the official exchange rate are authorized in accordance with the availability of foreign exchange, up to an overall weekly ceiling of $30,000. The limits for the various categories of invisible payments are as follows: (1) business travel by ex- porters, up to 1 percent of the preceding year's total exports, and by others, up to the equivalent of Esc 62,500 a trip; (2) medical treatment, up to the equivalent of Esc 110,000 a trip; and (3) education expenses, up to the equivalent of Esc 23,000 a month, depending on the level of studies. Foreign travelers may take out on departure any unspent foreign exchange that they declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require a prior export license (Boletim de Registo Previo de Exportagao). Only ex- porters registered with the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism may obtain these licenses, which are granted automatically in most cases. As in the case of imports, prior licenses are intended pri- marily for statistical purposes, although they are also used to check the prices of exports. There are no products whose exportation is reserved solely for the public sector. In general, all exports are subject to a "customs services" tax of 5 percent. In addition, exports of cashew nuts are subject to a special tax, the rate of which has been reduced over the years. The tax rate was 25 percent in 1991 and is planned to be reduced to 20 percent in 1992. Other exports are also subject to a "rural property tax" (Contribuigao Predial Rus- iica), at the rate of 2 percent on "processed" prod- ucts and at the rate of 1 percent on "unprocessed" products. Special arrangements apply to exports to the member countries of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), to which Guinea- Bissau belongs; for example, exports to these coun- tries are exempted from the 5 percent customs ser- vices tax. (At the end of 1991, the arrangements had not come into e f fec t .) Exporters are required to surrender proceeds in full to the Central Bank but may obtain up to 50 per- cent of the surrendered foreign currency to pay for their own imports. Proceeds from Invisibles Under the foreign exchange regulations that came into effect in 1991, neither residents nor non- residents are required to sell to the Central Bank foreign exchange they receive from abroad, and they are free to sell foreign exchange in their posses- sion on the free exchange market. Capital Foreign direct investments are governed by the Investment Code of 1985, which was amended most recently by Decree-Law 4/91, promulgated on Sep- tember 30, 1991. Under the Investment Code, a set of incentives to foreign direct investments has been set, and foreign and domestic investments have been subject to the same terms with respect to ac- cess to domestic credit. The Investment Code provides protection against nationalization of in- vestment and expropriation of assets, and recog- nizes the right of foreign investors to transfer for- eign currency abroad in respect of profits (net of taxes), to sell or liquidate investments, to service loans obtained for project financing, and to make payments for imported supply and technical assistance. Gold Exports and imports of gold are prohibited unless expressly authorized by the competent government authorities. The Central Bank may engage in gold purchase and sale transactions with the public. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement January 14. A monetary arrangement with Portu- gal entered into force. Under this arrangement, the official exchange rate of the Guinea-Bissau peso vis- a-vis the Portuguese escudo was initially adjusted to the level prevailing on the parallel market. The Portuguese escudo was adopted as the intervention currency to calculate the cross rates for other foreign currencies, and a crawling peg system was adopted. Under the system, the official exchange rate would be adjusted in accordance with indicators that would be based on the differential between ex- pected rates of inflation in Guinea-Bissau and Portugal. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU 199 March 1. Foreign exchange regulations authoriz- ing the establishment and operation of exchange houses licensed by the Central Bank were adopted. September 5. The Guinea-Bissau peso was devalued by 6.7 percent against the Portuguese escudo. September 30. The Guinea-Bissau peso was de- valued by 12 percent against the Portuguese escudo. September 10. Pursuant to the provisions of Decree 20/91 (see August 15 entry above), the Central Bank issued Foreign Exchange Circular 5/91, setting out the rules governing exchange transactions in Guinea-Bissau. December 31. The state monopoly over imports of petroleum and petroleum products was abolished. Administration of Control Capital August 15. Decree 20/91 (Foreign Exchange Law), establishing the overall legal framework for the functioning of the exchange market and the dele- gating of powers to the Central Bank to regulate this market, was introduced. September 30. Amendments to the Investment Code (Decree 4/91), simplifying the handling of ap- plications for foreign direct investment, were ap- proved. The Decree was published on October 14 and entered into force 60 days later. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guyana is the Guyana Dollar, the external value of which is determined freely by mar- ket forces in the cambio market. The Bank of Guyana conducts certain transactions on the basis of the cambio rate on the date the transaction takes place. In accordance with the bilateral agreements with the central banks of the CARICOM, the Bank of Guyana quotes weekly rates for the CARICOM cur- rencies.1 On December 31,1991, the average buying and selling rates in the cambio market were C$121 and C$123 per US$1, respectively. The Bank of Guyana quotes rates for pounds sterling and Cana- dian dollars on the basis of the U.S. dollar/pound sterling cross rate quoted by the Bank of England and the U.S. dollar/Canadian dollar cross rate quoted by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The Bank of Guyana charges commissions at dif- ferent rates on the purchase and sale of officially quoted currencies. Transactions effected through the Bank of Guyana are limited, on the receipts side, to exports of sugar and bauxite and, on the payments side, to imports of fuel and sugar, and official debt-service payments. All other transactions are effected in the cambio market. There are no taxes or subsidies on the purchase or sale of foreign exchange. The only arrangement for forward cover against exchange rate risk operates in the official sector in respect of exchange rate guarantees that are pro- vided to certain deposits in the blocked accounts. (See section on Nonresident Accounts, below.) Guyana formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from December 27, 1966. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Minis- ter of Finance, who has entrusted its administration to the Bank of Guyana. The Ministry of Trade, Tour- ism and Industry is responsible for issuing import and export licenses. With the establishment of the cambio market un- der the Dealers in Foreign Currency (Licencing) Act (on March 13,1990), the Bank of Guyana, under the Exchange Control Act, suspended exchange control 1The major currencies to which this rate applies are the Bar- bados dollar, Eastern Caribbean dollar, Jamaican dollar, and Trin- idad and Tobago dollar. notices that related to (1) basic travel allowances; (2) correspondence courses; (3) subscription to clubs and societies, including entrance fees; (4) payment for periodicals, magazines, etc.; and (5) emigration. Also, until further notice, dealers are no longer authorized to accept deposits into the external payments deposit scheme for payment of imports from countries outside the CARICOM with- out approval from the Bank of Guyana. Under the Dealer in Foreign Currency (Licensing) Act, with the payment of a fee of C$250,000, indi- viduals may be licensed for a period of one year (renewable) to engage in foreign currency opera- tions; these operators are required to submit weekly returns of the transactions they conduct to the Bank of Guyana. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Exchange control applies to all countries, and all currencies other than the Guyana dollar are consid- ered foreign currencies. Authorized payments, in- cluding payments for imports, by residents of Guyana to residents of countries outside Guyana may be made in any foreign currency or in Guyana dollars to the credit of an external account in Guyana. Receipts from countries outside Guyana may be obtained in any foreign currency (in any listed specified currency2 for export proceeds) or in Guyana dollars from an external account. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of accounts for persons who are not residents of Guyana: external accounts and blocked accounts. External accounts may be opened, with exchange control approval, for persons resident outside Guyana. They may be credited freely with all autho- rized payments by residents of Guyana to nonresi- dents and with transfers from other external ac- counts; other credits require approval. They may be debited freely for payments for any purpose to resi- dents of any country, for transfers to other external 2Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 200 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA 201 accounts, and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is in Guyana; other debits require approval. Blocked accounts may, in principle, be credited with funds that are not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents (for example, certain capital pro- ceeds); these accounts may be debited for certain authorized payments, including the purchase of ap- proved securities. Since mid-1978, blocked accounts have been used to hold domestic currency deposits equivalent in value to pending applications for for- eign exchange. Such deposits carry a market-related interest rate. The Bank of Guyana provides full ex- change rate guarantee for deposits made before the devaluation of January 1984; partial exchange rate guarantee (at the rate of G$5.0 = US$1) for deposits made between January 1984 (after devaluation) and the end of January 1987; partial exchange rate guar- antee (at the rate of G$10 = US$1) for deposits made between January 1987 and the end of March 1989; and no exchange rate guarantee for deposits made after March 1989. Imports and Import Payments All imports from or transiting South Africa are prohibited. Imports of certain products are also pro- hibited from all non-CARicoM sources. These pro- hibitions are currently applicable to only two cate- gories of food, that is, unprocessed meat and processed fruit items. Permissible imports are sub- ject to individual licensing, but the following com- modities are exempt: passengers' baggage, house- hold and personal effects, bona fide patterns and samples that have a stipulated f .o .b. value, parcel post items of a certain value imported by individ- uals, and gifts subject to certain conditions. Import licenses are not required for goods originating in and consigned from CARICOM states. There are no import quotas. The Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Industry grants import licenses automatically. For imports transacted through the Bank of Guyana, foreign exchange approval is re- quired. Official foreign exchange is allocated inde- pendently of the issuance of import licenses by the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Industry. Before the introduction of the cambio market, all applications for official foreign exchange were required to be accompanied by a domestic currency deposit of equivalent value, to be held in blocked accounts with commercial banks. Commercial banks are re- quired to maintain a 100 percent reserve require- ment against these deposits at the Bank of Guyana. Import licenses for imports effected through the Bank of Guyana are issued in respect of certain specified products only to the government corpora- tion that has been authorized to procure them cen- trally. When the responsibility for handling imports of any product has been given to a single govern- ment agency with a view to eliminating duplication of ordering between such agencies, the relevant licenses are issued only to that corporation. In general, import transactions effected through the cambio exchange market are permitted without restriction; most imports of consumer goods take place on this basis. Import licenses are not required for the following goods: (1) goods imported by indi- viduals for personal use; (2) machinery and equip- ment to be used in pursuit of self-employment; and (3) goods to be used by noncommercial, non- agricultural, nonindustrial, or social organizations. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries may be freely effected through the cambio market. Foreign exchange for tourist travel and education may be purchased in the cambio market without restriction. Resident and nonresident travelers are subject to an exit tax of G$l,000 on departure. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign or local currency that may be taken out for foreign travel. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Sugar may be exported only by the Guyana Sugar Corpo- ration, and bauxite and alumina, only by Guyana Mining Enterprise Limited and Aroaima Bauxite Company. Certain other exports are also channeled through official agencies. Rice may be exported by the Guyana Rice Export Board and the private sec- tor. Most exports do not require export licenses, but transactions are supervised by the Bank of Guyana and the Customs and Excise Department to ensure that proceeds of exports are repatriated and offered for sale to a licensed dealer. Exchange control forms have to be completed for all exports exceeding C$200 in value. A foreign exchange retention scheme permits some exporters to retain a certain percentage of export proceeds. The retention ratio is 100 percent for bauxite, 17.5 percent for sugar, and 20 percent for gold. Retained foreign exchange may be used for imports of inputs and external debt servicing by exporters. Proceeds from Invisibles Specified currencies (see footnote 1) received on account of invisibles should be offered for sale to a licensed dealer, but other currencies may be re- tained by the recipient. Travelers may bring in freely ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 202 GUYANA any amount in foreign or domestic currency notes; travelers entering the country with foreign currency in excess of the equivalent of US$10,000 must de- clare the amount. Capital Private investment, both foreign and domestic, is governed by the Private Investment Code of 1979. Foreign-based companies and their subsidiaries may borrow in Guyana only with the express ap- proval of the Bank of Guyana. Borrowing from nonresidents requires exchange control approval. However, publicly owned enter- prises are encouraged to borrow abroad for the fi- nancing of specific projects and, in some instances, for working capital purposes. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Guyana for numismatic purposes, and also jewelry. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, pro- ducers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form, at home or abroad, without special permission. Im- ports and exports of gold in any form by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and industrial users require li- censes issued by the Ministry of Trade. Residents traveling abroad are allowed to take out with them jewelry up to a value of G$12,000, G$9,000, and G$3,000 for women, men, and children under 12 years of age, respectively. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement February 21. The official exchange rate was ad- justed from G$45 to C$101.75 per U.S. dollar, the rate prevailing in the cambio market on this date, and the special rate applicable to CARICOM trans- actions was abolished. As an interim arrange- ment, the official exchange rate would be set every Friday at the weighted (by volume of transactions) average level of the exchange rate prevailing in the cambio market in the week ending on the preced- ing Wednesday. Transactions in the official market would be limited, on the receipts side, to sugar and bauxite exports, and, on the payments side, to fuel and sugar imports and official debt-service payments. September 30. The official exchange rate was abol- ished. The Bank of Guyana would apply the average telegraphic transfer cambio rate to transactions channeled through it (that is, export receipts from sugar and bauxite and payments for imports of fuel and official debt-service payments). The Bank of Guyana would quote weekly rates for the CARICOM currencies under the bilateral arrangements with the central banks of the CARICOM. Administration of Control July 12. The requirement that persons traveling to and from Guyana complete currency and jewelery declaration forms was abolished; henceforth, cur- rency declarations will be required only from in- coming travelers for amounts exceeding US$10,000. Imports and Import Payments February 4. Legislation introducing the Common External Tariff (GET) of the Caribbean Common Market was passed. July 1. The processing of import license applica- tions was further simplified, and several items were removed from the prohibited list. In addition, pro- cessing of import license applications was cen- tralized in the Ministry of Trade. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Haiti is the Haitian Gourde, and its external value is determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market. The U.S. dollar circulates freely and is generally accepted in Haiti. Commercial banks quote buying and selling rates for certain other currencies, based on the buying and selling rates of the U.S. dollar in exchange mar- kets abroad. In December 1991, the average buying- selling rate in the market was G 8.5 per US$1. Commercial banks may open accounts in foreign exchange in favor of residents; these accounts may not be credited with export proceeds, with transfers from abroad received by exchange houses, or with receipts from maritime agencies and nongovern- mental organizations. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Haiti formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from December 22, 1953. Administration of Control The administration of the foreign exchange system is under the control of the Bank of the Republic of Haiti (the central bank). Article 52 of the Decree-Law of September 28,1991 provides for a penalty, payable to the tax authorities, equal to 20 percent on any commercial foreign exchange transaction not con- ducted through a bank established in Haiti.1 Apart from this requirement, there is no exchange control, and there are no obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from nonresidents. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Imports and Import Payments Four products (beans, maize, sugar, and pork) are subject to licensing requirements with quantitative restrictions. Gasoline is subject to a tariff rate of 57.8 percent; maize, millet, and flour, to a tariff rate of 50 percent; equipment, raw materials, and some inputs, to a tariff rate of 10 percent or lower. Rice is subject to a specific duty of G 12.50 a pound. Phar- maceutical imports are exempt from import duties. lAs of the end of 1991, the tax was not being enforced. Customs tariffs and the value-added tax applicable to most imports are calculated on the basis of the market exchange rate. All imports, except for inputs used by certain export industries, are subject to a consular fee of 3 percent, which is payable in Haiti. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of agricultural products require prior au- thorization from the Ministry of Commerce and In- dustry. Such authorization is usually granted freely but may be withheld when domestic supplies are low. Forty percent of all export proceeds and foreign exchange receipts of maritime agencies and non- governmental organizations must be surrendered to the central bank through the commercial banks at the reference rate.2 Exchange houses are required to surrender all foreign exchange transfers to the central bank.3 Exporters are required to negotiate documentary drafts with local commercial banks to ensure the repatriation of their export proceeds. The customs administration does not grant export ap- proval unless such drafts are cleared by the central bank. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. Resi- dents traveling abroad must pay a tax of G 275 on tickets and an airport tax of G 125. Diplomats and staff members of international organizations ac- credited in Haiti are exempt. Proceeds from invis- ibles are not required to be surrendered. There are no limitations on the importation or exportation of foreign or domestic bank notes. Capital Capital transfers abroad are not normally permit- ted, but capital may be imported freely. Foreign investment in Haiti is regulated by the decree of October 30, 1982 and requires prior government approval. Permission is normally not granted to nonresidents for investments in handicraft indus- tries. Under a decree of April 6,1973, private banks operating in Haiti are required to keep a minimum of 85 percent of their liabilities for local customers in the form of domestic assets. 2The reference rate is the weighted average of the exchange rates of all commercial banks, money brokers, and cambios. 3As of December 31, 1991, only the surrender requirement applicable to export proceeds was enforced. 203 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 204 HAITI Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Haiti for numismatic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary au- thorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. The Bank of the Republic of Haiti has the exclusive right to pur- chase gold domestically and to export gold in the form of coins, mineral dust, or bars. Gold in any form other than jewelry carried as personal e f fec ts by travelers may be imported and exported only by the Bank of the Republic of Haiti; exports re- quire, in addition, prior authorization f rom the Ministry of Commerce and Indus try and the Min- istry of Finance, as well as an endorsement f rom the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, before customs clearance. However, commercial imports of articles containing a limited amount of gold, such as gold watches, are freely permitted and do not require an import license or other authoriza- tion. Several gold coins have been issued, which are legal tender but do not circulate. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangements September 16. The exchange rate system was uni- fied, and all transactions began to be conducted at exchange rates determined by demand and supply conditions in the exchange market. Imports and Import Payments May 1. The licensing requirement for the importa- tion of rice was suspended, and the import tariff on rice was lowered to a specific rate of G 12.50 a pound. Sugar was exempted from all customs duties. Exports and Export Proceeds September 16. With the unification of the exchange rate system, the reference rate would be applied to 40 percent of export proceeds that are subject to the surrender requirement. (The reference rate is the weighted average of the exchange rates of all com- mercial banks, money brokers, and cambios.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Honduras is the Honduran Lempira. With the exception of debt conversions and trade with other Central American countries, all foreign exchange transactions are conducted in an interbank marke t. The exchange rate in the interbank market is determined by the Central Bank of Honduras and is ad jus ted periodically, taking into account developments in the main eco- nomic indicators. On December 31,1991, the buy- ing rate in the interbank market was L 5.4 per US$1. The selling rate applicable to purchases by the private sector through the authorized banks and institutions is the buying rate plus a commis- sion of 1.5 percent, and a commission of 1 percent is applied to purchases by the public sector. Ex- change rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the cross rates for these currencies in relation to the U.S. dollar in international mar- kets. Debt conversions are conducted at the rate of L 2 per US$1. Purchases and sales of other Central American currencies are effected on the basis of quotations in lempiras, taking into account the value of those currencies in terms of U.S. dollars in the parallel exchange markets of the respective countries. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange ra te risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. On August 19, 1950, Honduras formally notified the Fund that it had assumed the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, effective July 1, 1950. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Honduras administers ex- change control regulations. Exporters are required to present a declaration to the External Financing Department of the Central Bank (DERFE), which maintains a registry for imports that is used for statistical purposes only. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency There are no regulations prescribing the method of payment to or from nonresidents. Trade transac- tions with the rest of Central America may be car- ried out in local currencies, barter and compensa- tion mechanisms, or U.S. dollar proceeds from ex- ports to the rest of the Central American countries. In November 1990, a new Central American system of payments (Sistema Centroamericano de Pagos), a multilateral clearinghouse system, was ratified by the Central Bank of Honduras. The exchange rate applicable to all transactions channeled through this arrangement is the prevailing interbank market rate on the day of the transaction. All exports and imports of goods and services channeled through this system are exempt from any license, permit, advance deposits or guarantees, quotas, or any other quantitative restrictions that the Central Bank may impose for balance of payments reasons. All lempira-denominated payments amounting to at least L 1,500, which are processed through the old Central American Clearing House in respect of trade and trade-related transactions with Mexico, Colombia, Panama, and member countries of the Central American Common Market (CACM), re- quire prior authorization from the Central Bank of Honduras. Imports and Import Payments Registration is required for all imports in excess of $5,000. Imports of arms and similar items require a license issued by the Ministry of Defense. The financing of imports must be channeled through the banking system, either with foreign exchange purchased in the interbank market or with credits obtained abroad (except for financing obtained through export advances or government credit agreements with external institutions). Authorized banks and institutions that operate in the interbank market must process foreign ex- change requests for imports and other authorized purposes in the order received. For that purpose, all intermediary institutions report daily to the Central Bank all requests for foreign exchange, and the Central Bank numbers them for sequen- tial attendance by the banks. Exempt f rom se- quencing are requests for $2,500 or less. Until March 14, 1991, 10 percent of foreign exchange purchased by authorized banks and institutions was to be reserved for the importation of basic medicines and inpu ts and supplies for the agri- cultural and manu fac tu r ing industries that were a f fec ted by the floods in 1990. A 100 percent guar- antee deposit is usually required by commercial 205 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 206 HONDURAS banks at the time of the request for foreign exchange. Most imports from countries outside the Central American Common Market (CACM) are subject to customs duties, ranging from 4 percent to 35 per- cent. Imports from the CACM are subject to customs duties ranging from zero to 35 percent. Most imports are subject to an import surcharge of 5 percent. In addition, certain goods are subject to a customs surcharge of 10 percent of the c.i.f. import value. There is a duty-free zone in Puerto Cortes, industrial processing zones, and firms that are reg- istered in the regime of temporary imports (a draw- back regime), which are exempted from customs duties. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports with a value exceeding $5,000 require a license and are subject to prior authorization f rom the DERFE. Exempt f rom the prior authorization are exports from the du ty-free and the industrial processing zones. All foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered either to the Central Bank or to authorized banks and institutions. Subject to prior authorization by the Central Bank, exporters are allowed to retain up to 30 percent of their foreign exchange proceeds to finance their own imports, as well as to pay their authorized foreign exchange obligations. Proceeds f rom exports of coffee and bananas must be surrendered within 30 days of approval of the prior export authoriza- tion by the DERFE; the surrender period for other exports ranges f rom 30 days to 120 days. The com- mercial banks are required to transfer to the Central Bank 40 percent of their holdings of for- eign exchange proceeds f rom exports and other receipts. Exports of coffee are supervised by the Honduran Coffee Institute. Exports of lumber are channeled through the Honduran Forest Development Corporation. Bananas are subject to an export tax at the rate of $0.50 for each 40-pound box, but the tax is refunded for exports that exceed a certain ceiling. Sugar is subject to an export tax if its export price exceeds a specified level. Coffee exports are subject to a tax of 7 percent. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All purchases of foreign exchange in excess of $2,500 require prior approval f rom the Central Bank, and all buyers of foreign exchange are re- quired to file an application stating the purpose for which the funds will be used. Within this limit, persons traveling abroad may purchase foreign currency in the interbank market, without prior authorization f rom the Central Bank, up to $2,500 a person. No restrictions exist on the importation of foreign bank notes by travelers. Depending on the availability of foreign exchange, there may be delays in t rans fe rs of dividends and prof i ts. Capital The authorization of the Minister of Finance and the approval of the Central Bank are required for all activities involving the receipt of foreign exchange and its transfer abroad for investment in mutual funds, housing developments, real estate, or simi- lar activities. Foreign mutual funds and similar fi- nancial institutions require permission to collect funds in Honduras for deposit or investment abroad. The approval of the Ministry of Finance, the Secretariat of Coordination, Planning, and Budget, and the Central Bank is required for public sector foreign borrowing whether for import financing or for other purposes. The contracting of external debt by the private sector requires the approval of the Central Bank. External debt contracts must be regis- tered with the Central Bank, which provides for- eign exchange for the servicing of duly registered and approved external debt only. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Honduras for numismatic purposes. With this ex- ception, residents other than the mone tary au- thorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and ex- ports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry re- quire licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for im- ports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, industrial users, and producers of gold. All locally produced gold is exported in the fo rm of ore for refining. Commercial imports and exports of jewelry and other articles contain- ing gold require licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy; for most articles, these are granted freely. Exports of gold are sub ject to a tax of 5 percent. Changes During 1991 Imports and Import Payments January 1. Tariff rates on goods originating in countries outside the CACM were reduced to 4-35 percent from 2-40 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS 207 February 14. The import-licensing requirement was abolished for most goods, and registration was required for all imports for statistical and tax purposes. March 14. Special foreign exchange allocations for imports for relief of flood damage were abolished. May 30. Ceilings on foreign exchange deposits and the amount of these deposits that could be used to finance imports were eliminated. Exports and Export Proceeds January 24. The time limit for surrendering for- eign exchange proceeds from exports of minerals and nontraditional goods was extended to 120 days. December 31. The export tax on traditional exports was eliminated after being phased out by 1 per- centage point a month, following a reduction to 11 percent on January 31, 1991. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG1 (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Hong Kong is the Hong Kong Dollar. The authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions. Since October 17, 1983, the Hong Kong dollar has been linked to the U.S. dollar at the rate of HK$7.80 per US$1. Under this linked exchange rate arrangement, the two note-issuing banks must deliver to the Exchange Fund an amount in U.S. dollars that is equivalent to the local currency issued, as backing for their Hong Kong dollar note issues. The Exchange Fund, in turn, issues certificates of indebtedness denomi- nated in Hong Kong dollars. Similarly, the banks may redeem U.S. dollars from the Exchange Fund by delivering local currency at the same linked ex- change rate. Other licensed banks wishing to ac- quire (or exchange) local currency notes may pur- chase (or sell) them against an equivalent amount of U.S. dollars at the linked exchange rate with one of the note-issuing banks. For other transactions, the exchange rate of the Hong Kong dollar is set in the exchange market at freely negotiated rates. How- ever, the possibility of interest rate arbitrage and currency arbitrage, together with the capability of the Exchange Fund to intervene in the market, tends to keep the market rate in line with the linked rate. On December 31, 1991, the middle rate in the interbank foreign exchange market for the U.S. dol- lar, the intervention currency, was HK$7.781 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The forward exchange markets are operated on private sector initiatives, and the Government has no official role. Administration of Control There are no exchange controls. Import and ex- port licensing is carried out mainly by the Director- General of Trade. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Settlements between residents of Hong Kong and nonresidents may be made and received freely in Hong Kong dollars or any other currency. ^ong Kong is a nonmetropolitan territory in respect of which the United Kingdom has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agreement. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between resident and non- resident accounts. Imports and Import Payments Imports are free of restrictions, except for those main- tained for health, safety, environmental protection, or security reasons. Among the latter, quantitative restric- tions are placed on the importation of rice to ensure an adequate supply for domestic consumption. All imports are free of import duties, although an excise tax for revenue purposes is levied on imported as well as do- mestically produced cigarettes and tobacco, alcoholic liquors, methyl alcohol, some hydrocarbon oils, non- alcoholic beverages, and cosmetics. With a few excep- tions, a trade declaration must be lodged with the Customs and Excise Department within 14 days of importation (and exportation) in respect of each consign- ment of goods imported into or exported from Hong Kong. Payments for permitted imports may be made freely, at any time, and in any currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses and certificates of origin are re- quired for certain textile products to enable Hong Kong to fulfill its international obligations under the Multifiber Arrangement and under a number of bilateral textile agreements. Other restrictions are maintained for health, ecology, safety, or security reasons. Export proceeds may be collected at any time and in any currency. They need not be repatri- ated or surrendered. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for or re- ceipts from invisibles. Earnings on investments, in- cluding interest on bank deposits in Hong Kong, are subject to the profits tax, but earnings from foreign investments are not taxed. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers may freely bring in and take out any amount in domestic or foreign bank notes, traveler's checks, and other means of payment. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents. A license or an authorization is required for companies, whether incorporated in Hong Kong 208 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG 209 or elsewhere, to conduct banking, or insurance and securities dealings. Otherwise, all overseas com- panies are only required to register with the Com- panies Registry of the Registrar General's Depart- ment within one month of establishing a place of business in Hong Kong. dents. Imports and exports of gold in any form (including finished jewelry) are freely permitted and do not require licenses. Residents may hold gold in any form and amount in Hong Kong or abroad. Commemorative gold coins of HK$1,000 are legal tender but do not circulate. Gold There are free and unrestricted markets for gold and gold futures open to residents and nonresi- Changes During 1991 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Hungary is the Hungarian Fo- rint. The exchange rate of the forint is determined on the basis of a currency basket comprising U.S. dollars (50 percent) and European Currency Units (ECUs) (50 percent). The value of the forint in terms of the basket is adjusted at irregular intervals, principally in light of the difference between the domestic and foreign rates of inflation. Exchange rates are quoted daily by the National Bank of Hungary (NBH) for 20 convertible curren- cies and the ECU,1 and the NBH stands ready to effect transactions in any of these currencies. Spot buying and selling rates are expressed in absolute terms. The middle rates for each currency are de- rived using the exchange rates quoted at 9:00 each morning in international markets. The spot buying and selling rates in U.S. dollars on December 31, 1991 were Ft 75.42 per US$1 and Ft 75.82 per US$1, respectively. Banks are required to buy and sell only at official buying and selling rates, except that they are free to set the exchange rates for currency notes and traveler's checks, provided that (1) the buying rate does not exceed, and the selling rate exceeds, the official middle rate; and (2) the margins are symmetrical around the commercial banks' middle rate for currency notes. Effective January 1,1991, all commercial and non- commercial settlements previously conducted in transferable or clearing rubles were terminated, and all new contracts for goods and services have been concluded in convertible currencies on the basis of prices prevailing in world markets. As a transitional arrangement, however, the transferable and clear- ing rubles have continued to be used for the settle- ment of orders placed or contracts concluded before the end of 1990 and for the settlement of some outstanding financial claims. For outstanding claims, official exchange rates are quoted for the transferable ruble. At the end of December 1991, the middle rate for the forint against 1 transferable ruble was Ft 27.50. The NBH ceased to quote the 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese es- cudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and ECUs. In addition to the above, ex- change rates are quoted for bank notes and traveler's checks in Greek drachmas. exchange rate of the forint for the currencies of the former CMEA countries effective January 1, 1991, with the exception of Czechoslovak koruna, for which the official quotation ceased on June 1, 1991; the exchange rate for the currencies of the former CMEA countries is freely determined by the bank- ing system. There are also legal free exchange mar- kets for the currencies of Bulgaria, Poland, Ro- mania, and the former U.S.S.R., with trading organized by one or two organizations. An agreement between Hungary and Czecho- slovakia concluded in February 1991 permits the conversion of their national currencies into each other's currency through their respective banking systems for the purpose of tourist travel between the two countries at exchange rates freely deter- mined by the commercial banks and exchange offices, subject to limits on the importation of bank notes. Ano ther agreement, concluded at the end of September 1991, extended the arrange- ment to payments for a list of noncommercial transactions. According to the agreement of the two central banks, the ou ts tand ing balances on noncommercial transactions can be settled by pay- ments for commercial transactions. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Commercial banks have the right to establish short-term swap contracts with the NBH. Administration of Control The authority for enforcement of foreign ex- change regulations is vested in the Minister of Fi- nance, who exercises related functions through the NBH, except for those functions reserved for the Minister himself or delegated to other institutions. The NBH may entrust other agencies, such as bank- ing institutions and travel agencies, with the perfor- mance of specified tasks.2 All economic organizations and private persons in Hungary are entitled to carry out foreign trade activity in convertible currencies after registering with the Ministry of International Economic Rela- tions (since January 1, 1992, with the NBH). 2The Central European International Bank Ltd., Intereuropa, Ltd., Unicbank Budapest, Ltd., Citibank Budapest, Ltd., and Creditanstalt Budapest, Ltd. are exempt from Hungarian foreign exchange regulations and restrictions in respect of authorized activities. 210 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY 211 Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Hun- gary has bilateral payments agreements are made in the currencies and in accordance with the pro- cedures set forth in those agreements. If there are no specific agreements, or if trade takes place out- side the scope of the agreements, settlement is made in a convertible currency officially quoted in Hungary. At the end of 1990, bilateral agreements had been concluded with Albania, Bulgaria, Czech- oslovakia, Poland, and Romania for the settlement of outstanding transferable or clearing ruble bal- ances with shipments of goods at 1990 prices. In the case of Czechoslovakia, the agreement provided for the settlement of any remaining balance in the na- tional currency of the debtor country.3 Resident and Nonresident Accounts Nonresident juridical and natural persons as well as resident natural persons may maintain convert- ible currency accounts freely at the authorized com- mercial banks. Resident juridical persons may open convertible currency accounts only with funds orig- inating from specific sources, such as proportion of capital paid in convertible currency by the foreign owners of joint-venture companies; donations paid in convertible currency for foundations, church, and social organizations; and budgetary institu- tions. The accounts carry tax-free interest, payable in the currency of deposit, and have a guarantee of repayment but no exchange rate guarantee in case of conversion. The interest rates on deposits are based on the international financial market rates depending on the currency and the maturity of the deposit. No authorization is required to open such accounts or to draw on them. Imports and Exports Beginning in December 1990, a general authoriza- tion was granted to import and export without spe- cific license except for a negative list of items. All entities have also been authorized to conduct for- eign trade except for a list of items where specific licensing of enterprises is required. Specific licenses are granted by the Ministry of International Eco- nomic Relations. Importers have an automatic right to purchase foreign exchange through the banking system for 3Agreements had not yet been reached with the other former CMEA countries for the settlement of the transferable ruble balances, but negotiations are continuing. By April 1, 1992, agreements had been concluded on the same basis with Cam- bodia, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongolia, and Viet Nam. all bona fide imports. When applying for foreign exchange, importers have to complete a declaration, stating the use of foreign exchange. The NBH con- ducts a random checking of banks and enterprises for compliance with the regulations. Decree No. 52, March 1990 required that all im- port contracts exceeding Ft 2 million be secured by a letter of credit. Advance payments must be effected only against advance repayment guarantee and re- ceipt. If commercial banks undertake fu ture pay- ment obligations on behalf of their clients, the f orint equivalent of this payment obligation must be de- posited with the NBH at the time of undertaking the obligation in question. The procedures were modi- fied by Decree No. 36, February 1991, whereby the Ft 2 million minimum was increased to Ft 10 million, and importers were permitted to enter into deferred payment arrangements. Deferred payments are for a period exceeding 60 days and must be secured by bank obligations (letter of credit, bank guarantee); commercial banks undertaking these payment obli- gations are not required to deposit the forint equiv- alent of the obligation with the NBH. Export proceeds must be received in convertible currencies and must be surrendered to the NBH within eight days of receipt of foreign exchange. Certain exemptions are granted, subject to specific approval by the NBH. There is no limit on the time during which export earnings must be repatriated following the shipment of goods. Enterprises en- gaged in foreign trade are required to provide the NBH with semiannual reports showing claims out- standing in connection with their export activities. Decree No. 52 of 1990 required that the collection of export contracts exceeding Ft 2 million be guaran- teed either by letter of credit, bank guarantee, or bank collection. Decree No. 36 of February 1991 increased the minimum to Ft 4 million. Imports of consumer goods have been partially liberalized. About 40 percent of imports are subject to authorization or a global quota, the dollar value of which is published annually in the Foreign Trade Gazette. The value of the quota for 1991 was set at $630 million. Noncommercial imports by returning Hungarian travelers are subject to a general import duty of 15 percent based on the actual invoice price with a duty-free allowance of Ft 5,000. Import duties on cars range from 10 percent to 70 percent, depending on type, cylinder capacity, and year of manufacture. A 25 percent value-added tax is levied on imports of cars. Returning residents—if they are employees of a domestic agency—may import, free of customs duty, goods up to a value equivalent to 40 percent of their earnings while stationed abroad for more than ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 212 HUNGARY one year. Certain exports are prohibited for sanitary, security, and other noneconomic reasons. An ex- port subsidy may be provided for exports of agri- cultural products and processed foods settled in convertible currencies. The tax refund and the sub- sidy are calculated on the basis of the customs in- voice value. Hungary has negotiated new trade agreements with former CMEA countries based on free market principles and providing for settlements in convert- ible currencies at world market prices, with no offi- cial overdraft, credit, or clearing facilities. As of De- cember 1991, new trade agreements had been signed with Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Po- land, Romania, the Russian Federation, and Ukraine.4 New agreements had also been negoti- ated but not yet signed with Estonia, Kazakhstan, and Latvia. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to merchandise transactions, including transportation and advertis- ing, are freely granted. Generally, transactions in foreign exchange outside foreign trade require gen- eral or individual authorization, irrespective of their amount, mostly from the NBH and, in some special cases, from the Ministry of Finance or other compe- tent authority. Foreign exchange for related pay- ments is made available automatically once the un- derlying transactions have been authorized. Budgetary or social institutions may obtain gen- eral authorizations for transactions up to specified amounts in connection with their own activities. General authorization up to specified amounts or proportions of turnover is given to enterprises en- gaging in foreign economic activities for the pur- pose of defraying expenses other than those directly related to trade. Such authorizations relate to ex- penses for travel and other expenses, such as the maintenance of foreign representation and related personnel expenses. Compliance with the condi- tions of the general authorizations is reviewed on an ex post basis by the NBH, or the Ministry of Interna- tional Economic Relations. On November 20, 1989, a regulation governing foreign exchange allowances for private travel was introduced, under which foreign exchange al- lowances for travel by passport holders may be ob- tained in convertible currencies, subject to an indi- vidual allowance of $50 a year from January 1,1990. For passport holders over 14 years of age, drawings can only be made annually or to the extent 4 By the end of April 1, 1992, agreements had been concluded with Belarus, Lithuania, and Uzbekistan. of unused previous annual allowances. In addition, a bonus of $50 or $100 is available in 1992 and 1993 if the allowances have not been drawn by 1990 or 1991, respectively. Those travelers who used more than one half of the total allowance available for the three- year period 1988-90 under the previous system can- not receive further allowances until 1991-92. The portion available in foreign exchange for the pur- chase of gasoline abroad was abolished except for the handicapped. Since January 1, 1991, tickets to Europe and for flights to the Middle East may be bought without limit; tickets for overseas flights may be bought once a year. Additional allowances for private travel were introduced on January 13, 1992. The new al- lowances are granted through travel agents and are additional to those already available under the 1989 regulations. Package tours can be freely purchased in forints, with a daily cash allowance of Ft 500- 1,800 without a limit on the number of days. For nonpackage tours purchased through travel agents, travel and hotel expenses, half or full board, and programs can be paid fully in forints, plus the above-mentioned cash allowance with a 14-day an- nual limit. Exporters are permitted to spend for business travel a certain portion of export earnings based on the annual value of exports. There are eight percentage bands, ranging from 50 percent for exports of up to Ft 4.9 million to 0.7 percent for exports of Ft 400-499.9 million, with a ninth band of 2 percent for exports exceeding Ft 500 million. The limit for importers is 1 percent of convertible cur- rency imports. The minimum allowance is Ft 100,000 (or the amount spent in the previous year) if the entity has an income from exports. The decree established separate allowances for financial institutions (the amount spent the previous year plus 15 percent); municipal councils (the limit ap- plied in 1991 plus 15 percent); parliamentary parties (4 percent of the parliamentary allocation); social organizations (8 percent of budgetary allocations or 5 percent of receipts from members); package tour operators and hotels (1 percent of convertible cur- rency receipts, with a minimum of Ft 100,000); other legal and nonlegal entities (20 days7 business travel expense); budgetary institutions and universities (unlimited); and institutions with representatives abroad (the amount spent the previous year plus 15 percent). In addition, these institutions are free to pay for membership and participation fees at con- ferences, including travel and hotel expenses. Up to the end of 1991, travel agencies were licensed to use up to 50 percent of the previous year's net convert- ible income for package tours. From 1992 onward, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY 213 this limitation has been abolished in favor of a liber- alized system of tours through travel agencies (Gov- ernment Decree No. 4/1992 of January 13, 1992). After returning to Hungary, a traveler must re- convert into forint the convertible currencies he did not spend abroad, with the exception of Ft 4,000 a person, which is generally exempt from the sur- render requirement. No minimum spending or conversion require- ment applies to nonresident travelers to Hungary, but they must have a certain amount of money at their disposal to cover their anticipated expendi- tures while in Hungary, which is checked at the borders. Nonresidents may take out of the country foreign exchange assets and economic assets, in addition to their personal effects, without a license from the foreign exchange authority, provided that they have filled out a "Certified Declaration on Brought-In Assets" on arrival. Foreign travelers may take out of the country without restriction all of the articles purchased in Hungary with forints con- verted from convertible currency; conversion into forints must, however, be verified with presentation of records. Residents may, without a license from the foreign exchange authority, bring into or take out of the country domestic currency in an amount not ex- ceeding Ft 2,000 a person (in denominations not exceeding Ft 500); the corresponding limit for non- residents is Ft 500 a person. Coins made of precious metal may not be taken out of the country at all. No foreign exchange is made available for study abroad. Students' living expenses and tuition fees while abroad must be covered by scholarships or financial support from nonresidents or from con- vertible currency accounts of the person in question (see section on Resident and Nonresident Accounts, above). Transfers abroad by nonresident workers in Hungary, other than those employed in joint ven- tures, are determined on the basis of agreements between domestic and foreign institutions or enter- prises. Nonresident employees of joint ventures may transfer abroad up to 50 percent of their taxed income. Capital Under the new Central Banking Law approved by the Parliament on December 1, 1991, financial in- stitutions must report all foreign borrowing to the NBH. Foreign borrowing of other legal entities as well as granting extension of foreign credits by the Hungarian financial institutions is subject to the approval of the NBH. Some of the joint-venture banks are exempted from this regulation. Directives for extending short-term commercial credits in connection with foreign trade activities have been established jointly by the Minister of Finance, the Minister of International Economic Re- lations, and the President of the NBH. No license is required from the foreign exchange authority for commercial credits in compliance with the direc- tives. The NBH refinances these credits from its own resources. Foreign investment in the form of joint ventures with Hungarian enterprises may be established without the approval of any ministry or of other authorities. Effective January 1, 1991, the licensing requirement was abolished for joint ventures. For- eign participation up to 100 percent may also be allowed without approval. Joint ventures may also be established in duty-free zones. In both cases, the joint venture is considered as a Hungarian legal entity, but those in duty-free zones are exempted from several regulations. Machines and equipment, technical know-how, and patents may qualify as foreign investment. The profit tax rate for joint ven- tures in the production sphere and in hotel building and hotel trade is 16 percent in the first five years of operation and 24 percent thereafter until the end of the tenth year, provided that the equity capital ex- ceeds Ft 50 million and the foreign partner's owner- ship exceeds 30 percent; this compares with a gen- erally applied profit tax rate of 40 percent. The reinvestment of profits is encouraged by a reduction in the profit tax. Joint ventures in preferred lines of production are exempted from the profit tax for five years and pay 16 percent thereafter until the end of the tenth year. The right to these incentives may be obtained until December 31, 1993. There are no customs duties on real assets brought into joint ventures. Guarantee is given for the transfer of the foreign investors' share of profits or, if the joint venture is liquidated, of the invested capital and capital gains. In addition, a guarantee may be ob- tained from the NBH covering losses on invested assets as a result of state measures, or from Hun- garian banking institutions covering the fulfillment of obligations of the Hungarian partner. Foreign investment by resident economic organi- zations, either by establishing subsidiaries or affili- ates or by acquiring an interest in a foreign enter- prise, is subject to the approval of the Ministry of International Economic Relations. In addition, ap- proval is required from the Minister of Finance in his capacity as the foreign exchange authority. Except for gifts with a market value of up to Ft 3,000, the transfer of economic assets abroad by residents is subject to licensing administered by the NBH. Gifts (movable property) from nonresidents ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 214 HUNGARY to residents in Hungary in excess of Ft 10,000 a person are also subject to licensing. Nonresidents are not generally allowed to acquire real estate, buildings, or other immovable property in Hun- gary, except through inheritance. Joint ventures can own real estate necessary for their activities. Outward capital transfers by resident natural per- sons are not generally approved. For certain estab- lished categories, such as inheritances, transfers may be authorized on the basis of agreements and reciprocity with other countries, subject to the ap- proval of the NBH. Emigrants are allowed to take out of the country assets valued up to Ft 500,000, and gold and jewelry considered to be personal effects. Other assets of emigrants, as well as the assets of nonresidents, are held either in the care of a person designated by the nonresident owner or, in the case of financial assets, in a nonresident forint account or deposit. Gold All trade in gold and gold objects is subject to the authority of the NBH and in concurrence with the competent authority in the case of industrial and artistic uses. All ingots and gold coins, except for one piece a person of every kind of gold coin minted before 1945, must be offered to the NBH for sale. Except for transactions with enterprises specifically authorized to transact in gold, all transactions in gold are subject to licensing administered by the NBH. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement June 1. The exchange rate for the Czechoslovak koruna ceased to be officially quoted. Free markets for currencies officially not quoted began to operate legally within the banking system. November 7. The NBH ceased to quote forward exchange rates for customer-based transactions. December 1. (I) The currency basket used to deter- mine the external value of the forint was changed from one consisting of 11 currencies (weighted to reflect the currency composition of foreign trade turnover) to one consisting of ECUs (50 percent) and U.S. dollars (50 percent); (2) spot exchange rates began to be quoted on the basis of the exchange rates prevailing in international markets at 9:00 a.m. of the same business day instead of the exchange rates in international markets prevailing at noon of the previous working day; (3) the spread between the official buying and selling rates for spot transac- tions began to be expressed in absolute terms in- stead of ± 0.25 percent around the middle rate; and (4) banks were permitted to set the exchange rates for currency notes and traveler's checks freely, pro- vided that the buying rate does not exceed, and the selling rate exceeds, the official middle rate, and that the margins for currency notes are the same around the commercial banks' middle rate for cur- rency notes. Prescription of Currency January 1. All new trade contracts with former members of the CMEA, Albania, and the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea were converted to world market prices with settlement in convertible currencies. February 27. A central bank agreement was con- cluded with Czechoslovakia under which the cur- rencies of Hungary and Czechoslovakia used for purposes of tourist travel would be exchanged at market-determined rates in the banking system. Septembers. The bilateral clearing agreement with the Islamic Republic of Iran was terminated. September 24. The February 1991 agreement with Czechoslovakia on the conversion of national currencies through their respective banking sys- tems at freely determined exchange rates for tour- ist travel was extended to a list of noncommercial transactions. Imports and Exports February 1. (1) The Priority Enterprise System and SALDO (the Normative Import-Licensing System) for licensing imports were abolished; (2) under De- cree No. 36, 1991, the minimum value of imports above which contracts were required to be secured by a letter of credit was raised to Ft 10 million from Ft 2 million; (3) importers were permitted to enter into deferred payment arrangements, and if the deferred payments were for a period exceeding 60 days and were secured by bank obligations, com- mercial banks undertaking these payment obliga- tions were not compelled to deposit the forint equivalent with the NBH; and (4) the minimum value of export contract, above which collections must be guaranteed by letters of credit, bank guar- antees, or bank collection, was increased to Ft 4 million from Ft 2 million. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles December 23. Additional allowances were granted for private travel, which are arranged through travel agents. New regulations were introduced for busi- ness travel allowances for 1992 as follows: Exporters would be permitted to spend for busi- ness travel a certain portion of export earnings based ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY 215 on the annual value of exports. There would be eight percentage bands, ranging from 50 percent for ex- ports of Ft 4.9 million to 0.7 percent for exports of Ft 400-499.9 million, with a ninth band of 2 percent for exports exceeding Ft 500 million. The limit for im- porters would be 1 percent of convertible currency imports. The minimum allowance would be Ft 100,000 (or the amount spent in the previous year) if the entity has an income from exports. Separate allowances would be applied as follows: financial in- stitutions (the amount spent the previous year plus 15 percent); municipal councils (the limit applied in 1991 plus 15 percent); parliamentary parties (4 per- cent of the parliamentary allocation); social organiza- tions (8 percent of budgetary allocations or 5 percent of receipts from members); package tour operators and hotels (1 percent of convertible currency receipts, with a minimum of Ft 100,000); other legal and non- legal entities (20 days' business travel expense); bud- getary institutions and universities (unlimited); and institutions with representatives abroad (the amount spent the previous year plus 15 percent). In addition, these institutions would be free to pay for member- ship and participation fees at conferences, including travel and hotel expense (Decree 36/1991). Capital January 1. The licensing requirement for joint ven- tures was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Iceland is the Icelandic Krona, the external value of which is currently pegged to a trade-weigh ted basket of currencies. The Central Bank is authorized to quote the daily rate of the krona, which is binding on all exchange transactions during the day as there is no organized foreign exchange market in Iceland. On December 31,1991, the buying and selling rates were ISK 55.54 and ISK55.70, respectively, per US$1, the principal trad- ing currency in Iceland. Rates for other currencies1 are based on the official rates for the U.S. dollar and the dollar rates for the currencies concerned in inter- national markets. The banks are permitted to carry out exchange transactions among themselves and to engage in arbitrage in foreign markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Iceland formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from September 19, 1983. Administration of Control The Ministry of Industry and Commerce, after consulting with the Central Bank, has the ultimate responsibility for matters concerning import and foreign exchange regulations, while exports come under the auspices of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade. The Central Bank is responsible for regulating foreign exchange transactions and exchange control, including capital controls; it is also responsible for ensuring that all foreign ex- change due to residents from commercial transac- tions is surrendered to authorized banks and that such foreign exchange is disposed of as authorized. Prescription of Currency All exchange receipts must be obtained in con- vertible currencies. Settlements with countries whose currencies are usually tied to the U.S. dollar, and with several other countries in eastern and southern Europe as well as outside Europe, are 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. On January 1, 1992, the basket was changed to contain only the Canadian dollar, the European Currency Unit, the Japanese yen, and the U.S. dollar. made in U.S. dollars. Settlements with countries of the former Sterling Area and some other countries are made in sterling; and those with other countries are made in their respective currencies. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open accounts denominated in kronur in domestic banks and transfer the bal- ance abroad without limitation. Nonresidents may freely open accounts denominated in foreign cur- rency. Individual banks must notify the Central Bank of the opening of all nonresident accounts. Imports and Import Payments Most goods can be imported freely without an import license. The main exemptions are live ani- mals and certain agricultural products. Certain im- ports, including fertilizers, tobacco, matches, and alcoholic beverages, can be ordered freely but ad- mitted only under state trading arrangements. Some fresh vegetables, potatoes, and flowers are subject to periodic import control. For imports from all sources that require a license, a fee of 1 percent is assessed on the krona value of the import license when it is issued. Importers of goods not requiring licenses are not required to obtain a foreign exchange permit prior to shipment from abroad but must present import documentation to domestic banks to obtain foreign exchange. For imports that require an individual license, foreign exchange is granted in accordance with the terms stipulated in the license. Importers may freely obtain suppliers' credits for up to one year for individual shipments from the date of arrival at an Icelandic port. The maturity must conform to general practices in international trade for respective goods. If, however, a domestic financial institution acts as guarantor, the credit terms must not exceed a period of six months. Im- port documentation on credit terms must be pre- sented to one of the banks at the time of customs clearance. Suppliers7 credits in excess of one year are subject to the approval of the Ministry of Indus- try and Commerce. Automobiles are subject to a special import tax ranging between zero and 32 percent, depending on the weight of the vehicle and the engine capacity. Buses, heavy trucks, ambulances, and public ser- vice vehicles are exempt. Certain nonessential 216 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND 217 goods, whether imported or domestic, are subject to a special excise tax of 24 percent or 30 percent, ad valorem. A specific import tax applies to wines and spirits, with the amount of tax dependent on alco- hol content and volume. Payments for Invisibles Payments for services rendered to residents by nonresidents and the remittance of interest, divi- dends, rents, and other forms of income from capital are completely free, but bona fide documents must be submitted to the banks. The only remaining restric- tions on invisible operations concern travel expenses. The basic foreign exchange allocation for tourist travel is the equivalent of ISK 200,000 (based on the ISK- ECU exchange rate on August 1, 1990) a person for each trip abroad. For business travel, the basic alloca- tion is the equivalent of ISK 400,000 a person a trip. The rules stipulating an exchange license fee of 1 per- cent for most invisibles remained in effect for budget- ary reasons until December 31, 1990 but were elimi- nated as of January 1, 1991. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out any amount of Icelandic bank notes in any de- nomination that they have legally acquired. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of fisheries and agricultural products re- quire licenses issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade. The shipping documents must be lodged with a domestic bank. Export pro- ceeds must be surrendered without undue delay. Exporters can deposit with a domestic bank foreign exchange outlays in their business. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles of a commercial nature must be surrendered. The owners of Icelan- dic ships and aircraft are permitted to retain their foreign exchange receipts from freight, passenger tickets, or other charges and to use them for operat- ing purposes and for purchases of necessities, Ice- landic insurance companies that reinsure abroad are permitted to retain foreign exchange earned from premiums and indemnities and to use it to pay reinsurance premiums, claims, and other regular expenditures. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in Icelandic bank notes in any amount and in any denomination that they have legally acquired. Capital into force on March 25, 1991, as follows: (1) nonre- sidents are free to make investments in Iceland, subject to the conditions laid down in general legis- lation governing foreign investment or, as the case may be, in sector-specific legislation; (2) only resi- dent Icelandic citizens or domestically registered companies wholly owned by resident Icelandic cit- izens may fish within the Icelandic fishing limit or operate primary fish processing; (3) only Icelandic state and local authorities, resident Icelandic cit- izens, or domestically registered Icelandic com- panies wholly owned by resident Icelandic citizens may acquire the right to harness waterfalls and geo- thermic energy. The same restrictions may apply to power production and distribution companies; (4) investment by nonresidents in domestic airlines is restricted to 49 percent; (5) investment by non- residents in domestic incorporated commercial banks is restricted to 25 percent, but foreign com- mercial banks will be allowed to open branches in Iceland as of January 1,1992; (6) total investment by a single nonresident or by financially linked non- residents in excess of ISK 250 million a year is sub- ject to authorization by the Minister of Commerce. Total investment by nonresidents in any sector is subject to authorization by the Minister of Com- merce; and (7) in all cases, nonresidents must sat- isfy a reciprocity requirement in order to invest in Iceland. In some sectors of the economy, sectoral legisla- tion stipulates that either some or all of the founders or managing directors of a company must be resi- dent Icelandic citizens. In many cases, the relevant minister may grant exceptions to such require- ments. A foreign citizen who has been an Icelandic resident for at least one year has the same status as an Icelandic citizen in that respect. The legislation on joint stock companies2 stipu- lates that the majority of founders must have been residents in Iceland for at least one year before the company was established. The managing director and the majority of the members of the board of directors of a company that has been established and is operating in Iceland must be residents. How- ever, the Minister of Commerce may grant excep- tions to this requirement. The legislation on the ownership and use of real estate3 stipulates that for jo int stock companies to own real estate, they must be registered in Ice- land, at least 80 percent must be owned by Icelan- dic citizens, and all of the members of the board of directors must be Icelandic citizens or have been Foreign direct investments in Iceland are regu- lated, in accordance with legislation that entered 2Act No. 32 of May 12, 1978. 3Act No. 19 of April 6, 1966. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 218 ICELAND residents in Iceland for at least five years. Icelandic citizens must control the majority of the voting power at annual meetings. The same conditions apply if the real estate is to be leased for more than three years, or if the lease agreement cannot be terminated with less than a year's notice. However, a company that has been granted an operating li- cense in Iceland may acquire real estate for its own use as long as the license does not carry with it the right to exploit natural resources. Residents are allowed to obtain credit for general financing purposes with the following limitations: (1) transactions cannot be guaranteed; (2) funds may not be re-lent by a resident financial institution, and credits extended to any resident may not ex- ceed a total of ISK 5.625 million (ISK 7.500 million as of January 1, 1992) or its equivalent in other curren- cies during each calendar year; (3) the maturity must exceed one year; and (4) copies of all lending documents have to be submitted to the Central Bank. The same rules apply to credits extended by residents to nonresidents. Forward agreements, fu- tures, options, and swaps are free, provided that an underlying international trade or capital transaction exists and that the Icelandic krona is not involved. Applications for the contracting of financial credits and loans abroad for a period of less than one year are considered on their merits. Suppliers' credits with a maturity of up to 12 months may be con- tracted without restriction as long as the transaction is not guaranteed and the funds are not re-lent by a domestic financial institution; otherwise, the max- imum maturity period is restricted to 6 months. The regulations on foreign borrowing, purchase leasing, and financial leasing of capital goods re- quire that 20 percent of the value of imports of capital goods be financed domestically; this ratio is 30 percent if the borrowing is guaranteed or if the funds are re-lent by a financial institution. Direct investments abroad and the purchase of real estate abroad are permitted up to ISK 5.625 million (ISK 7.5 million as of January 1, 1992) or its equivalent in other currencies during each calendar year. Portfolio investments abroad are permitted up to ISK 562,000 (ISK 750,000 as of January 1, 1992) in each calendar year. Residents must effect all trans- actions in foreign securities through a licensed resi- dent broker who is a member of the Icelandic Se- curities Exchange. Members of the Icelandic Securities Exchange may invest mutual funds in foreign securities up to ISK 112.5 million (ISK 150 million as of January 1, 1992). Residents who have lawfully acquired foreign exchange may maintain accounts with nonresident institutions up to ISK 1.5 million (ISK 3.75 million as of January 1,1992). Out- ward transfers of some personal capital, such as gifts, inheritances, and legacies are free up to ISK 200,000 in each calendar year.4 Icelandic emigrants may transfer up to ISK 750,000 a person at the time of departure. They may transfer the remainder of their assets upon presentation of evidence of permanent residency in a foreign country. Nonresidents may freely acquire listed Icelandic securities and may freely transfer abroad the inter- est on, and proceeds from the sale of, securities. Gold A commemorative gold coin with a face value of ISK 100 is legal tender but does not circulate. Resi- dents may hold and acquire gold in Iceland, subject to certain legal requirements. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require li- censes issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes During 1991 Capital March 25. The following changes were made on the regulations governing foreign direct investment: (1) nonresidents would be free to make investments in Iceland, subject to the conditions laid down in general legislation governing foreign investment or, as the case may be, in sector-specific legislation; (2) only resident Icelandic citizens or domestically registered companies wholly owned by resident Icelandic cit- izens may fish within the Icelandic fishing limit or operate primary fish processing; (3) only Icelandic state and local authorities, resident Icelandic citizens, or domestically registered Icelandic companies wholly owned by resident Icelandic citizens may ac- quire the right to harness waterfalls and geothermic energy (the same restrictions may apply to power production and distribution companies); (4) invest- ment by nonresidents in domestic airlines would be restricted to 49 percent; (5) investment by nonresi- dents in domestic incorporated commercial banks would be restricted to 25 percent, but foreign com- mercial banks were allowed to open branches in Ice- land as of January 1, 1992; (6) total investment by a single nonresident or by financially linked nonresi- dents in excess of ISK 250 million a year is subject to authorization by the Minister of Commerce. Total 4A11 limits on outward direct investment and portfolio invest- ment are expected to be eliminated by January 1, 1993. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND 219 investment by nonresidents in any sector is subject to authorization by the Minister of Commerce; and (7) in all cases, nonresidents would be required to satisfy a reciprocity requirement in order to invest in Iceland. Changes During 1992 Capital January 1. The annual limit on funds that may be re-lent or on credits that may be extended by a resident financial institution to any resident was raised from ISK 5.625 million to ISK 7.500 million or its equivalent in other currencies. The annual limits on the following types of invest- ment by residents were raised: (1) direct invest- ments abroad and the purchase of real estate abroad, from ISK 5.625 million to ISK 7.5 million or its equivalent in other currencies; (2) portfolio in- vestments abroad, from ISK 562,000 to ISK 750,000 or its equivalent in other currencies; and (3) in- vestment in mutual funds in foreign exchange by members of the Icelandic Securities Exchange, from ISK 112.5 million to ISK 150 million. Residents who have lawfully acquired foreign exchange were per- mitted to maintain accounts with nonresident in- stitutions up to ISK 3.75 million (the previous limit was ISK 1.5 million). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of India is the Indian Rupee, the external value of which is determined on the basis of a weighted basket of the currencies of India's major trading partners.1 The authorities maintain the rela- tionship of the rupee to the basket of currencies within margins of 5 percent. Exchange rates of the rupee in terms of the pound sterling, the intervention cur- rency, are set periodically by the Reserve Bank of India; on December 30, 1991, the opening quotations were £2.0733 buying and £2.0639 selling, per Rs 100. Exchange rates for spot and forward purchases of deutsche mark, Japanese yen, and U.S. dollars are based on the latest available rates and trends in international markets and are announced by the Reserve Bank every day; such rates may be changed at any time if the need arises. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the cross rate of the pound sterling with the Indian rupee. The Re- serve Bank stands ready to purchase currencies of the member countries2 of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU), deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds ster- ling, and U.S. dollars, spot and forward, and to sell spot ACU currencies, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. The Reserve Bank permits authorized dealers and authorized money changers to fix the floor and ceiling rates for purchases and sales of U.S. dollar and pound sterling notes and traveler's checks for all foreign currencies on the basis of a 1On March 1, 1992, a dual exchange rate system was intro- duced under which foreign exchange at the official rate is pro- vided only for certain imports, including imports by government departments; crude oil, diesel, kerosene, and fertilizers autho- rized by the Department of Economic Affairs; life-saving drugs and equipment; partial financing of certain advance imports; and raw materials. All other permitted imports are financed with foreign exchange at the free market rate. Forty percent of current account receipts —from both exports and invisible transactions— are required to be surrendered at the official exchange rate; the remaining 60 percent may be sold at the free market rate. All capital account transactions, including interest payments on ex- ternal debt but excluding official grants and IMF transactions, are effected at the free foreign exchange market rate. The Reserve Bank has the option of using either the U.S. dollar or the pound sterling as the currency but uses the U.S. dollar as the interven- tion currency. The Reserve Bank deals with authorized dealers only in U.S. dollars. Exchange rates for spot and forward transac- tions in deutsche mark, Japanese yen, and pounds sterling are based on the latest available rates and are approved by the Reserve Bank each day; exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the cross-rate relationship between the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned. Bangladesh, Islamic Republic of Iran, Myanmar, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka; Nepal is a member of the ACU, but the Reserve Bank does not deal in Nepalese rupees. formula furnished by it. The Reserve Bank fixes periodically the "notional" exchange rates for the deutsche mark, the Japanese yen, the pound ster- ling, and the U.S. dollar at which authorized dealers are required to sell to and repurchase from the Reserve Bank receipts or remittances effected under the Foreign Currency Nonresident Accounts Scheme. The Reserve Bank bears the exchange risk involved in the operation of the scheme. Authorized dealers are permitted to maintain bal- ances and positions in "permitted currencies." Per- mitted currencies are divided into two groups, Group A consisting of 20 listed currencies,3 and Group B consisting of other foreign currencies that are convertible into any of the permitted currencies in fairly active markets. Authorized dealers are also permitted to maintain abroad balances and posi- tions in ECUs. Authorized dealers are permitted to deal spot or forward in any permitted currency. Forward purchases or sales of foreign currencies against rupees with banks abroad are prohibited. On December 30,1991, market rates for telegraphic transfers in New York were $3.9900 buying (clean) and $3.8450 selling per Rs 100; the Reserve Bank's spot buying rate for U.S. dollars was $3.8730, and its forward buying rates were $3.8825, $3.8565, and $3.7515 per Rs 100 (for 1, 3, and 12 months' delivery, respectively). The Reserve Bank provides forward cover to au- thorized dealers for purchases of pounds sterling for delivery on any day during the first month, second month, and so on, up to 9 months' delivery initially (and extendable up to 12 months), for pur- chases of U.S. dollars up to 12 months, and of deut- sche mark and Japanese yen for delivery on any day during the first month, second month, and so on, up to the sixth month. Thus, the forward contracts are on a monthly option basis, that is, with options to deliver the amount on any day from the first to the last day of the month in which the contract is due for delivery. The Reserve Bank also sells U.S. dollars forward to authorized dealers for deliv- ery on a two-, three-, four-, or six-month basis, 3Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Bahrain dinars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Malaysian ringgit, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 220 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 221 subject to certain conditions.4 In addition, the Ex- port Credit Guarantee Corporation of India Ltd. (ECGC) provides protection against exchange fluc- tuation in respect of deferred receivables from the date of a bid up to 15 years after the award of contract; exchange cover is offered in Australian dollars, French francs, deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, U .A .E. dir- hams, and U.S. dollars. For payments specified in other convertible currencies, cover is provided at the discretion of the ECGC. The Reserve Bank also purchases the currencies of the ACU member coun- tries listed in footnote 2 from authorized dealers for delivery up to six months on a monthly option basis. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank in accordance with the general policy laid down by the Government in consultation with the Reserve Bank. Much of the routine work of ex- change control is delegated to certain commercial banks, which act as authorized dealers. Import and export licenses are issued by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into two groups: the Bilateral Group of countries5 and the External Group of countries (all other countries). Payments to and from the Bilateral Group of countries must be settled in Indian rupees through appropriate clearing accounts. Payments to the External Group of countries may be made in rupees to the account of a resident of any country in the group or in any permitted currency.6 4These forward sales were suspended as of February 19, 1992 in response to speculative tendencies in the forward market. Czechoslovakia, Romania, and the former U.S.S.R. 6A11 remittances by nationals of China to any country outside India and all remittances to China by any person resident in India, whether for personal or trade purposes, were prohibited with effect from November 3,1962. Since the resumption of trade between India and China, remittances arising out of trade trans- actions are permitted in conformity with exchange control reg- ulations. All non-trade-related transactions with China or na- tionals of China continue to be prohibited, unless generally or specifically authorized. Authorized dealers are permitted to open rupee accounts on their books in the names of their branches or correspondents in China or Pakistan without prior reference to the Reserve Bank, but must obtain approval before opening such accounts in the names of branches of Pakistani or Chinese banks operating outside Pakistan and China, respec- tively. Authorized dealers may effect remittances to Pakistan on behalf of private importers as in the case of imports from other countries; they may also effect certain types of personal remit- tances in accordance with regulations applicable to such remit- tances; remittances for other purposes require prior approval from the Reserve Bank. Receipts from the External Group of countries may be obtained in rupees from the account of a bank situated in any country in the group or in any permitted currency. However, special rules may ap- ply in respect of exports under lines of credit ex- tended by the Government of India to the govern- ments of certain foreign countries. In addition, all payments on account of current international trans- actions (other than travel, export, and import trans- actions) financed with loans from international fi- nancial institutions under bilateral lines of credit between India and other members of the ACU ex- cept Nepal, are required to be settled through the ACU arrangement. Transactions with the ACU countries on a deferred basis are also required to be settled through the ACU arrangement. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of Indians and of Bhutanese and Nepalese nationals resident in Bhutan and Nepal, as well as the accounts of offices and branches of Indian, Bhutanese, and Nepalese firms, com- panies, or other organizations in Bhutan and Nepal, are treated as resident accounts.7 Accounts related to all other foreign countries are treated as nonresi- dent accounts. The treatment of these accounts dis- tinguishes between banks and others. The accounts of banks are classified into two groups corresponding to the division of countries for prescription of currency purposes —that is, the accounts of banks in the Bilateral Group of countries and the accounts of banks in the External Group of countries. Accounts of banks in the External Group of countries may be credited with payments for imports, interest, dividends, and other authorized purposes; with authorized transfers from the non- resident accounts of persons and firms (including banks), provided that both the transferor and the transferee accounts are of the same country or coun- tries in the External Group; and with proceeds from sales of permitted currencies. They may be debited for payments for exports and for other payments to residents of India. These accounts may also be deb- ited for transfers to nonresident accounts of persons and firms (including banks) and transfers to non- resident external rupee (NRER) accounts, provided that both the transferor and transferee are residents of countries in the External Group. The balances in the accounts of banks in countries in the External Group may be converted into any permitted cur- rency. All other entries on bank accounts require prior approval from the Reserve Bank. 7However, residents of Nepal obtain their foreign exchange requirements from the Nepal Rastra Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 222 INDIA Ordinary nonresident accounts of individuals or firms may be credited, without prior approval, with receipts of dividends and interest on securities, shares, and deposits. With approval from the Re- serve Bank, they may be credited with refunds of amounts previously debited or overcharged; pro- ceeds of remittances in appropriate foreign cur- rency or transfers from appropriate nonresident banks7 rupee accounts (see section on Prescription of Currency, above); proceeds of foreign exchange tendered by the account holder during a temporary visit to India; proceeds from checks issued by the Life Insurance Corporation in respect of maturity or death claims and the surrender value of policies held by nonresidents, provided that the corporation certifies that premiums have been received in India in an approved manner and that actuarial reserves were held in India; all legitimate dues accruing in India to the account holder, such as pensions, provi- dent funds, gratuities, bonuses from a former em- ployer, income tax refunds, etc.; and proceeds of checks, provided that the aggregate of such credits during a month does not exceed Rs 4,000 and that no individual credit exceeds Rs 1,500. When the nonresident account holder is an In- dian national or a person of Indian origin, credits on account of withdrawals or loans from, and maturity proceeds of investments in, the Public Provident Fund Scheme, 1968, rentals from and sale proceeds of real estate owned by the account holder, and maturity proceeds of all types of securities, as well as proceeds from the sale of securities sold on stock exchanges in India and the repurchase price of units issued by the Unit Trust of India are freely allowed. Indian emigrants may maintain ordinary nonresi- dent accounts, as may overseas corporate bodies or trusts that are at least 60 percent owned, or in which at least a 60 percent beneficial interest is held di- rectly or indirectly, by nonresident Indians, pro- vided that the initial deposit for opening such an account by these bodies or trusts is made from re- mittances abroad or from funds in India otherwise eligible for credit to these accounts. When the account holder is a foreign national of Indian origin, authorized dealers may credit the sale and maturity proceeds of all types of securities and the repurchase price of units, provided that the securities were originally purchased either with funds held in the account or by remittance from abroad, and, in the case of sde proceeds, that the sale was made on a stock exchange. Proceeds from the sale of shares owned by the nonresident account holder, whether he is an Indian national or a foreign national of Indian origin, may be freely credited to his account if the shares were acquired with ap- proval from the Reserve Bank. Authorized dealers have been allowed to freely credit rupee funds that are legitimately due to the account holder to non- resident ordinary accounts. In respect of credits exceeding Rs 10,000, the authorized dealers are re- quired to ascertain the bona fide nature of the trans- action before crediting the amount to the account. Authorized dealers may debit the ordinary rupee accounts of nonresidents for (1) local disbursements other than for payments toward investments in In- dia and for the booking of international passages; and (2) payments toward investments in Unit Trust of India, National Plan or Savings Certificates, and Securities of the Central or State Government. Nonresident external rupee accounts may be opened by authorized dealers in India for persons of Indian nationality or origin who reside outside In- dia or for overseas companies and partnership firms of which at least 60 percent is owned by nonresi- dents of Indian nationality or origin. In addition to authorized dealers holding licenses under the 1973 Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, some state coop- erative banks and certain urban cooperative banks and scheduled commercial banks not holding such licenses have also been permitted by the Reserve Bank to open and maintain nonresident rupee ac- counts subject to certain conditions. Such accounts may also be opened for eligible persons during tem- porary visits to India against the tender of foreign currency traveler's checks, notes, or coins. They may be credited with new funds remitted through banking channels from the country of residence of the account holder or from any country in the Exter- nal Group. They may also be credited with the pro- ceeds of foreign currency traveler's checks, personal checks, and drafts in the name of the account holder, as well as foreign currency notes and coins tendered by the account holder during his stay in India, and also with income on authorized invest- ments. The transfer of funds from other NRER ac- counts or foreign currency nonresident accounts (FCNR) of the same account holder is also allowed. The accounts may be debited for disbursements in India and for transfers abroad. Debits on account for investment in government securities and units of the Unit Trust of India and transfers to other NRER accounts of the same account holder are freely allowed. Balances can also be used for purchases of foreign currency or rupee traveler's checks or traveler's let- ters of credit for the use of the account holder, his family and dependents, and for the use of directors and employees in the case of corporate entities. Transfers of funds between two NRER accounts are freely allowed if the transferor and transferee are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 223 residents in the External Group of countries. Invest- ments in the shares of Indian companies or in part- nership firms, etc., or in immovable property can be made with the specific or general approval of the Reserve Bank. Interest on deposits in nonresident external accounts in any bank in India is exempted from the personal income tax although juridical per- sons are not entitled to this exemption. Interest earnings are transferable. The balances held in such accounts by natural and juridical persons are ex- empted from the wealth tax. Gifts to close relatives in India from the balances in these accounts are exempted from the gift tax. These tax exemptions, however, are available only for those accounts main- tained by nonresident individuals and not by over- seas corporate bodies. FCNR accounts denominated in deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars may be held in the form of term deposits by persons of Indian nationality or origin who reside in the Exter- nal Group of countries and by overseas companies specified above. These accounts may be credited with amounts received through normal banking channels, including interest, which are free of in- come tax, wealth tax, and gift tax. Balances may be repatriated at any time in the currency of de- nomination, without reference to the Reserve Bank. Balances can also be used for the purposes for which debits to NRER accounts are allowed. Imports and Import Payments The Imports and Exports (Control) Act of 1947 empowers the Central Government to prohibit, re- strict, or otherwise control imports. Under this Act, the Imports (Control) Order, 1955, was issued, which specifies items subject to controls. All im- ports require import licenses or a customs clearance permit unless otherwise exempted.8 Imports of gold,9 silver, currency notes, bank notes, and coins are controlled by the Reserve Bank. Imports from Fiji and South Africa are prohibited. There are two types of actual user licenses: General Currency Area Licenses and Specific Licenses (used for imports from specified countries). Licenses are fur ther clas- sified as follows: automatic licenses, supplementary licenses, EXIM scrips, capital goods licenses, ad- vance licenses, special imprest licenses, and im- 8The exempted category includes government imports under open general license, relief supplies, and passenger baggage. 9Imports of gold up to 5 kilograms are allowed as part of baggage by passengers of Indian origin or passengers holding a valid passport, provided that the person comes to India af ter staying abroad for a period of not less than six months and subject to the payment of duty of Rs 220 per 10 grams. prest licenses.10 Licenses issued for capital goods are valid for 2 years, and all other licenses are valid for 18 months. The import policy for fiscal years 1990/91-1992/93, which came into effect on April 1, 1990, with its subsequent amendments, divides products into three basic categories: consumption goods; raw ma- terials, components, consumables, tools, and spare parts; and capital goods. Imports of consumption goods are prohibited except for certain essential products that are canalized (that is, reserved for the Government or state trading enterprises); consumer durable items are also not allowed to be imported except those that can be imported under the per- sonal baggage scheme by Indians returning from abroad.11 Imports of raw materials, components, and spare parts for industry are classified into five categories: (1) banned; (2) limited permissible; (3) restricted; (4) canalized; and (5) open general. All items not included on these lists are freely available for importation under open general license (OGL). Nonresident Indians returning home for permanent settlement can only during the first 12 months after their return import all raw materials except restricted (nonpermissible) items and ca- nalized items under OGL, subject to a value limit for the purpose of setting up small industries. Supple- mentary licenses may be obtained by small-scale industries and producers of life-saving equipment and drugs in case of need, even if goods are on the limited permissible and restricted lists. Advance licenses permit duty-free imports of specified materials —up to 30 percent of net foreign exchange earnings—on the basis of export orders. All licenses to industry are generally issued against free foreign exchange, except for imports from the rupee pay- ment area and from countries that are financed with available credits.12 Noncapital goods imports are subject to advance import deposits (cash margins) ranging up to 50 percent.13 Advance deposits are required at the time of opening of letters of credit or at the time of placement of orders; for imports financed with let- ters of credit, they must be maintained until the 10EXIM scrips were abolished, effective March 1, 1992, with the establishment of a dual exchange rate system. 11 Items that can be imported under the personal baggage scheme include air-conditioner units, refrigerators, deep free- zers, cooking ranges, washing machines, television sets, tape recorders, record players, movie cameras and projectors, vid- eocassettes, textile fabrics, cigarettes, cigars, and tobacco. 12Since March 1, 1992, with the establishment of a dual ex- change rate system, only limited categories of imports have been entitled to foreign exchange at the official rate. 13 On February 12,1992, the advance deposit requirement was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 224 INDIA retirement of documents or the production of the exchange control copy of the customs bill of entry, whichever is earlier. In the case of imports not cov- ered by letters of credit, the amount of the advance deposits is to be retained for a minimum period of 3 months unless such imports are covered by sup- pliers' credit for at least 180 days; advance deposits may be released by banks on clearance of goods by customs and production of the exchange control copy of the customs bill of entry to the bank. Ad- vance deposits earn interest comparable to that on other deposits of similar maturity. Imports by gov- ernment departments and universities and of petro- leum oil and lubricants, fertilizers, food grains, edi- ble oil, newsprint, raw materials, and intermediate goods used in the manufacture of bulk drugs are exempted from advance deposits. Merchandising trade transactions and imports of goods under EXIM scrip (see below) are also exempted as are imports under suppliers' credits of more than one- year maturity and imports by certain manufacturer- exporters, trading houses, and export houses—of finished leather products, chemicals and phar- maceuticals, engineering goods, garment and ma- rine products, woolens and carpets, handicrafts, sports goods, agro products and processed foods— for up to 30 percent of actual export realizations from the general currency area and 15 percent of their actual export realization from the rupee pay- ment area in the previous accounting year subject to an overall monetary ceiling of Rs 300 million a year (provided not more than 5 percent or Rs 30 million of export bills are outstanding for more than six months). Imports of certain types of hides, skins, leather, and chemicals by manufacturer-exporters, export houses, and trading houses are exempted from advance deposits, provided that no export bills in excess of 5 percent of the value of exports in 1990 with a maximum value of Rs 10 million are out- standing. Letters of credit/remittances for imports exceeding Rs 5 million and subject to the advance deposit requirement require prior clearance from the Reserve Bank. Banks are required to charge a 25 percent interest surcharge on all import finance.14 Special procedures apply to imports of capital goods. Specified capital goods are restricted, while some capital goods listed may be imported under OGL, subject to certain conditions. For other capital goods, licenses are granted subject to prescribed procedures. In general, licenses are granted after it has been certified that such imports are essential ("essentiality certificate"), unavailable from domes- 14This requirement was abolished on February 12, 1992. tic sources ("indigenous availability clearance"), and, where the value of imports exceeds Rs 4 mil- lion, that the importer has advertised his require- ments for 45 days. Imports of capital goods are permitted only against foreign currency lines of credit available with financial institutions and must not be paid for in foreign currency.15 New units or units undergoing substantial expansion are auto- matically granted licenses for imports of capital goods (other than those on the restricted list) with- out indigenous availability clearance, provided that imports of capital goods are fully covered by foreign equity or the import requirement is up to 25 percent of the value of plant and machinery subject to a maximum of Rs 20 million.16 For 14 industries and projects, capital goods may be imported on the basis of global tenders, whether or not the goods are manufactured in India. How- ever, importers are required to study domestic avail- ability of suitable equipment before calling for tenders. The selection of suppliers on the basis of global tender is subject to scrutiny by a committee headed by the Department of Industrial Develop- ment. For imports of capital equipment for power generation, transmission, and distribution, appli- cants must obtain prior clearance from this commit- tee before calling for global tenders. However, the tenders floated by the Natural Gas Commission/Oil India Limited/Gas Authority of India Limited will be evaluated in accordance with the guidelines is- sued by the empowered committee on indigeniza- tion in the oil industry under the Ministry of Petro- leum and Chemicals. For projects being established with external assistance, under which the interna- tional competitive bidding (ICB) procedure is fol- lowed for inviting bids, no further indigenous clear- ance will be required. Imports under OGL are allowed, or import licenses are granted on the basis of the certification of items covered by the ICB pro- cedure by the concerned administrative ministry. The exemption from indigenous clearance for the importation of capital goods, as above, is only for power projects, and this concession is available to any other sector, while for all other projects normal rules apply. Subject to specified conditions, export- ers of manufactured goods are entitled to import capital goods against their EXIM scrip without an essentiality certificate and without indigenous availability clearance, provided that the products are not on the restricted list. This facility is also available to the nominee of a merchant exporter. 15Effective February 18, 1992, this limit was raised to Rs 5 mil- lion. 16Effective March 1, 1992, these binding requirements for im- ports of capital goods were abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 225 Nonresident Indians returning home for perma- nent settlement may import goods other than re- stricted items and certain specified items for pur- poses of setting up or investing in an enterprise. Under the EXIM scrip scheme, exporters, includ- ing exporters of certain services such as software, earn import entitlements at a general rate of 30 per- cent of the f .o.b. value of their exports.17 With these EXIM scrips, items on the limited permissible list, OGL items for actual users, some nonsensitive items on the canalized list, and non-OGL capital goods other than those on the restricted list may be imported. EXIM scrips are freely tradable. Exports of items and jewelry and certain handicrafts have specific entitlement rates for EXIM scrip. Value- added agricultural products, electronics, bulk drugs and marine products, formulations, and cer- tain categories of advance engineering goods are eligible for EXIM scrip entitlement at the rate of 40 percent. Exporters who achieve an average performance of Rs 400 million and Rs 200 million during the preced- ing three years are recognized as export houses and trading houses, respectively. (Export performance is calculated on the basis of net foreign exchange earnings.) Export houses and trading houses are eligible for EXIM scrip entitlement at the rate of 35 percent of f .o .b. export value.18 Nonindustrial actual users, such as research and development laboratories, scientific or higher edu- cational institutions, and hospitals, are eligible to import their requirements of raw materials, compo- nents, consumables and spares, or other items (of- fice machines and professional grade consumer du- rables but not consumer goods). When a valid import license is held, the required exchange is released by an authorized bank on pre- sentation of the exchange control copy of the license and the shipping documents. License holders may make payments by opening letters of credit or by remitting against sight draf ts. Contracting of sup- 17The EXIM scrip scheme was abolished on March 1, 1992, since when exporters have been permitted to sell 60 percent of their receipts in the free foreign exchange market. 18Effective April 1, 1992, the criteria of average annual net foreign exchange earned (NFE) for export houses, trading houses, and star trading houses were changed as follows: Average Annual NFE Earned During Three NFE Earned During Preceding Years Preceding Licensing (in Rs) Years (in Rs) (In millions of rupees) 60 m 120 m 300 m 600 m 1,250 m 1,500 m Export houses Trading houses Star trading houses pliers' credits exceeding 180 days and other long- term import credits is subject to prior approval. Advance remittances before shipping documents can be submitted are not normally allowed, except for those with respect to import values of up to $1,000. However, in special cases —for example, im- ports of machinery and capital goods for which deposits have to be made with overseas manufacturers —the Reserve Bank grants special authorization for advance payment for a part of the value of the import. The importation of certain products, including food grains, certain oils and fats, a number of phar- maceutical products, natural rubber, raw cotton, raw ju te, most fertilizers, most nonferrous metals, and certain categories of steel, is reserved for the Government or state trading enterprises, the most important of which are the State Trading Corpora- tion (STC), the Jute Corporation of India, the Food Corporation of India, the Steel Authority of India, Ltd., and the Minerals and Metals Trading Corpora- tion. Bulk imports of certain raw materials that are not reserved for the public sector may also be ar- ranged by state agencies, under the Industrial Raw Materials Assistance Center facility. In addition to any applicable import duty, imports are subject to an auxiliary duty of up to 50 percent ad valorem. Among the exemptions are food grains, raw cotton, and books. Payments for Invisibles In general, payments abroad for invisibles re- quire approval. Foreign exchange is granted freely for a few such payments, mainly for expenses inci- dental to trade transactions and for transfers of re- curring contractual obligations. Premiums on insurance policies issued in foreign currency to foreign nationals who do not reside permanently in India may be paid only in foreign currency; payment in rupees may be made only on annuities issued against payment from recognized superannuation or pension funds; Indian residents are prohibited from taking out life insurance pol- icies in foreign currencies. Branches of foreign banks are not allowed to t rans fer abroad any prof i ts arising f rom the sale of nonbanking assets. Profit remittances by branches of foreign firms, companies, and banks require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Remittances of dividends by Indian companies to their nonresident shareholders do not require prior Reserve Bank approval, provided that cer- tain conditions are me t. Otherwise, subject to the general clearance requirement above, there are no ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 226 INDIA restrictions on the remittance of profits, divi- dends, and interest to beneficiaries whose perma- nent residence is outside India, provided that all current tax and other liabilities in India have been cleared. Foreign nationals temporarily residing in India on account of their employment are permitted to make reasonable remittances to their own countries to pay insurance premiums, to support their families, and for other expenses. Authorized dealers may allow such remittances by foreign nationals, other than those of China, Pakistan, and South Africa, up to 50 percent of net income. Requests for the remit- tance of larger amounts are considered on their merits by the Reserve Bank. Resident Indian citizens are permitted to travel abroad without "P" form formalities under the For- eign Travel Scheme (FTS) to any country (other than Bhutan, Nepal, and the countries covered by the Neighborhood Trade Scheme (NTS)) once every three calendar years. For determination of eligi- bility, all foreign travel other than under the FTS is disregarded; these visits may be combined with those for any other purpose except tours for export promotion and other business matters, and pil- grimages. Residents are entitled to foreign ex- change up to $500 or its equivalent and a round-trip ticket, irrespective of the carrier on which they travel. The foreign exchange entitlement for chil- dren up to the age of 12 is one half of the normal quota for adults. Authorized travel agents, airlines, and steamship companies may book passages un- der the FTS for any eligible person; foreign ex- change for such persons may be released by any authorized dealer. Travel to Bangladesh, Malaysia, Maldives, Mauritius, Myanmar, Pakistan, Sey- chelles, Singapore, and Sri Lanka is governed by the NTS, under which resident Indian citizens visiting neighboring countries are eligible for an exchange allowance of $250 a person once every three calen- dar years. Persons obtaining foreign exchange for travel pur- poses are required to pay, unless they are specifi- cally exempted, the Foreign Exchange Conservation (Travel) Tax at the rate of 15 percent at the rupee equivalent of the foreign exchange released to them. Authorized travel agents, airlines, and steamship companies may also book passages for persons going abroad with or without an allocation of for- eign exchange (other than under the above schemes), subject only to completion of a "P" form in cases where the passage fare is paid in rupees in India. Certain categories of passengers, including persons traveling between India and Nepal by In- dian and Nepalese airlines, deck-class passengers, and employees of airlines and steamship companies traveling abroad on business for their company on one of its carriers, are not required to complete a "P" form. Fares for nonresidents' journeys to and from India may be settled, without Reserve Bank ap- proval, in rupees debited to nonresident (external) accounts. The exportation of Indian currency notes and coins, except to Bhutan and Nepal, is, in general, prohibited. The exportation to Nepal of Indian cur- rency notes in denominations higher than Rs 100 is also prohibited. However, resident Indians may take with them Indian currency notes not exceeding Rs 250 a person at any one time to countries other than Nepal when proceeding abroad on a tempo- rary visit. Exchange bureaus and authorized money changers are permitted to sell foreign currency notes and coins up to the equivalent of Rs 100 to travelers proceeding to Bangladesh and up to $20 or its equivalent to those proceeding to other countries except Bhutan and Nepal. Nonresidents may take out the foreign currency that they brought in (and declared on entry if it exceeded $10,000), less the amounts sold to authorized dealers and authorized money changers in India. Unspent rupee amounts may be reconverted into foreign currency and taken out. Students going to foreign universities with full bursaries receive a foreign exchange allowance of up to $750 a person for settling in and for purchasing initial equipment. There is also an allowance of $2,000 to cover the initial expenses of persons travel- ing abroad for employment purposes, and an al- lowance for medical travel of $500 (without hospital- ization) and $700 (with hospitalization). The Foreign Travel Tax, at a rate of Rs 300 a pas- senger, is levied on all passengers embarking on an international journey to any destination other than Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Maldives, My- anmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. Passengers to these destinations are required to pay the tax at a rate of Rs 150 a passenger. Exports and Export Proceeds Most products may be exported without a license, while the exportation of certain items requires a license or is prohibited. Goods may be exported without restriction, provided that they are not pro- hibited, restricted through licensing, or canalized. In respect of restricted products,19 no product may normally be exported unless it is covered by a valid 19The exportation of certain commodities, including sugar and several categories of steel, is reserved for the state trading enter- prises. Exports of raw ju te are canalized through the Ju te Corpor- ation of India, Calcutta. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 227 license issued by the licensing authority concerned. Exports to Fiji and South Africa are prohibited. Border trade (that is, frontier trade) between India and the Tibet region of China is not allowed. Exchange control is exercised over the proceeds of exports to countries other than Bhutan and Nepal. Exporters must declare that the full export proceeds will be received and dealt with in accordance with the prescription of currency regulations. Foreign exchange holdings, including the proceeds of ex- ports, must be offered for sale against rupees to an authorized dealer, unless the holder has been au- thorized by the Reserve Bank to retain them, or he is a foreign national or a foreign person of Indian origin, or he (or his foreign-born wife) is not a per- manent resident of India, and the funds do not represent export proceeds.20 Export proceeds must be repatriated within six months of shipment. Ex- porters are required to obtain permission from the Reserve Bank through authorized dealers in the event of nonrealization of export value within the prescribed period.21 The Reserve Bank also admin- isters a scheme under which engineering goods (capital goods and consumer durables) may be ex- ported under deferred credit arrangements, per- mitting realization of export value in installments over a period of more than six months. Some exports are prohibited,22 and exports of hides, skins, and leather are subject to export du- ties. Others, including footwear, roasted and salted peanuts, man-made fibers, and live sheep and goats, are subject to minimum prices.23 A substan- tial number of exports, mainly new manufactures (such as engineering goods, chemicals, plastic goods, leather goods, sporting goods, marine prod- ucts, processed food and agricultural products, handicrafts, textiles, and ju te and coir products) receive import duty drawbacks, refund of central excise duty, and exemptions. Bona fide foreign tour- ists can, with the approval of customs, take out of India articles purchased with foreign exchange or 20Since March 1,1992, 40 percent of export proceeds have been required to be surrendered at the official exchange rate while the remaining 60 percent have been allowed to be sold at the free market rate. 21 Since March 1,1992, exporters have been permitted to retain up to 15 percent of receipts to be surrendered at the free market rate in foreign currency accounts with banks in India. 22Exports that are prohibited include rock crystal, quartz, some varieties of plants and derivatives, all varieties of forestry foundation and breeder seeds, tallow fat and/or oil of any animal origin, rough (uncut and unset) precious stones, sugar cane, frogs' legs, jaggery (unrefined brown sugar), specified animal skins, and human skeletons. (Exports of jaggery are allowed up to a quantitative ceiling.) 23Exports of footwear and roasted and salted peanuts are permitted on a decontrolled basis. with rupees acquired against foreign exchange without a value limit; silverware of up to Rs 200 a person may also be exported on the same basis, subject to a limit of Rs 400 a family. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered im- mediately on receipt.24 The importation of Indian currency notes and coins is prohibited. However, any person may bring into India Indian currency notes not exceeding Rs 100 a person (other than notes of Rs 100 or larger) from Nepal, and Indian travelers may bring in Indian currency notes not exceeding Rs 250 a person from other countries against evidence that they have previously taken out this amount from India while proceeding abroad on a temporary visit. Foreign currency notes may be brought into India without limit, provided that the total amount brought in is declared to the customs authorities upon arrival if the value of for- eign notes, coins, and traveler's checks exceeds $10,000 or its equivalent. Foreign currency notes may be sold to any authorized dealer in foreign exchange or to any authorized money changer. Capital There are no restrictions on receipts of inward remittances from any country through authorized dealers in India; the subsequent utilization of such funds in India is, however, subject to approval in most cases. Foreign investments, once admitted, are eligible for the same treatment that Indian enter- prises receive. Banks in India may borrow freely from their branches and correspondents abroad, provided that borrowings in excess of Rs 5 million are utilized to purchase rupees from the Reserve Bank or in the interbank market to finance their normal business operations in India; repayment of such borrowings requires prior approval from the Reserve Bank and may be effected only when the debtor bank has no outstanding borrowings in India from the Reserve Bank or any other bank. Persons resident in India may not borrow any foreign exchange from persons resident in or out- side India without prior permission from the Re- serve Bank. The contracting of all foreign currency loans and credits secured by nonresident persons 24Since March 1, 1992, 40 percent of receipts have been re- quired to be surrendered at the official exchange rate while the remaining 60 percent have been allowed to be sold at the free market rate. Fifteen percent of receipts to be surrendered at the free market exchange rate may be retained in foreign currency accounts with banks in India. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 228 INDIA and companies (including banks) as well as repay- ment of such loans/credits and payments of interest and other charges on such borrowings require prior permission from the Reserve Bank. The procedure prescribed for raising foreign currency loans by In- dian entities envisages that borrowing proposals, except in cases where loans are for periods of less than one year, must be cleared by the Ministry of Finance before they can be approved by the Reserve Bank.*5 Permission is required from the Reserve Bank for initiating, expanding, or continuing any business activity in India, and for holding or acquiring shares of any company carrying on a trading, commercial, or industrial activity in India by nonresidents,, non- citizens, nonbank companies not incorporated un- der Indian law, and Indian companies with over 40 percent nonresident interest.26 25Since January 1, 1992, foreign currency loans contracted by Indian companies having net foreign exchange earnings and carrying a minimum maturity period of two years have been approved by the Reserve Bank without administrative clearance from the Ministry of Finance. 26Persons of Indian nationality or origin who reside abroad may invest freely in any public or private limited company en- gaged in any activity except in agricultural/plantation activities/ real estate business (excluding real estate development, that is, construction of houses, etc.), or in any partnership/proprietary concern engaged in any activity other than real estate business and agricultural/plantation activity, provided that funds for in- vestment are either remitted from abroad through normal bank- ing channels or drawn from their nonresident accounts, pro- vided that an undertaking is given that repatriation of the capital invested or the profits and dividends arising therefrom will not be requested, and provided that overall limits on holdings of shares and convertible debentures bought through the stock exchange by nonresident Indians (see below) are adhered to. Overseas companies, societies, and partnership firms that are owned to the extent of at least 60 percent by nonresidents of Indian nationality/origin and overseas trusts in which at least 60 percent of the beneficial interest is irrevocably held by nonresi- dent Indians are also allowed to invest in any public or private limited companies in accordance with the above provisions. Non- resident Indians and overseas companies as defined above can use funds derived from fresh remittances or held in their nonresi- dent (external) or foreign currency (nonresident) accounts to (1) make portfolio investments, with repatriation benefits, up to 1 percent of the capital, provided that their holdings of shares and convertible debentures held on either a repatriable or non- repatriable basis do not exceed (a) 5 percent of the paid-up capital of the company concerned or (b) 5 percent of the total paid-up value of each series of convertible debentures issued by the company concerned. However, if a company so resolves through a General Body Resolution, then purchases of shares/debentures of such a company could be made up to 24 percent as against 5 percent mentioned at (b) above; (2) invest freely in National Savings Certificates with full repatriation benefits; (3) invest up to 40 percent of the new equity capital issued by a company setting up industrial manufacturing projects, hospitals (includ- ing diagnostic centers), hotels of at least three-star category, and shipping, software, and oil exploration services with repatriation rights for capital and income, subject to deduction of applicable Indian taxes; and (4) invest up to 100 percent of new investments, including expansion of existing industrial undertakings in spec- ified priority industries listed in Annex III to the Statement on New Industrial Policy with free repatriation of such investment. Foreign Direct Investment in India Before the announcement of the new industrial policy on July 24, 1991, foreign investment in In- dia was being permitted provided that it was ac- companied by a^technology transfer. Foreign di- rect investments were permitted in industries that required sophisticated technology, industries where there were critical production gaps, or in- dustries that could expand their exports. Nor- mally, an equity participation of up to 40 percent was perm i t ted. In cases where the required for- eign technology was highly sophisticated or where the pro ject was predominantly export- oriented, a larger foreign equity participation was perm i t ted. The policy relating to foreign invest- ment in f ree trade zones and export-oriented in- dustrial units was relatively more liberal, and for- eign equity up to 100 percent was perm i t ted. Approval for these investments was granted by the Secretariat for Industrial Approvals (SIA), in the Ministry of Industry, or in the Ministry of Commerce in the case of f irms in the f ree trade zones. On July 24, 1991, a new industrial policy was announced, under which industrial licensing, for- eign direct investments, foreign technology agreements, and public sector policy were liber- alized. In the area of direct foreign investment, the requirement that such investments must in- volve t rans fer of technology was abolished, and the Reserve Bank was authorized to grant auto- matic approval for investments under certain con- ditions. Applications for investments in areas that do not fa ll within the authority of the Reserve Bank but are covered by the foreign investment policy are approved by the SIA, and proposals that have special fea tu res or do not fit into the policy framework are considered by the Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB). The Reserve Bank is responsible for approving foreign invest- ment up to 51 percent of the paid-up capital of the Income from the investment will also be allowed to be repatriated af ter deduction of applicable domestic taxes, if the same is matched by export earnings for a period of seven years from the date of commencement of production. Nonresident Indians and overseas companies as defined above can also place funds with public limited companies in India as deposits, with full repatria- tion benefits, provided that (1) the deposits are made for a period of three years, (2) the deposits are made in conformity with the prevailing rules and within the limits prescribed for acceptance of deposits by such companies, and (3) the funds are made available by the depositors through remittances from abroad or through payments from their nonresident (external) or foreign currency (nonresident) accounts. Special tax concessions apply to investments by nonresident Indians. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 229 Indian companies that are engaged in manufactur- ing activities in the 34 manufacturing sectors. Investment in Trading Companies Foreign direct investments with foreign capital participation of up to 51 percent are permitted in trading companies. These companies are required to be registered with the Ministry of Commerce and to obtain a certificate of export/trading/star trading house status before they submit an application to the Reserve Bank for remittance of dividends. Divi- dend remittance must be balanced by export earn- ings of the company for a period of seven years. An exporter is granted a certificate of export/trading/ star trading house status when his average export earnings in the preceding three years are at least Rs 60 million, Rs 300 million, and Rs 1,250 million, respectively. Exporters whose export earnings dur- ing the preceding year are at least Rs 120 million, Rs 600 million, or Rs 1,500 million are also eligible for the certificate of export/trading/star trading house status, respectively. Increase in Foreign Equity in Existing Companies Foreign equity shares in the existing joint-venture companies may raise the ratio to 51 percent of their capital through expansion of their capital base or through preferential allocation of profits to the for- eign investor. Firms in certain manufacturing sec- tors and tourism-related industries (hotels, restau- rants, beach resorts) may increase the equity ratio immediately, while others may increase the equity ratio as part of expansion. Investment in Power Sector Foreign investment of up to 100 percent in pri- vately owned enterprises in the power sector may be perm i t ted. The condition of dividend balancing by export earnings does not apply to these investments. Prior approval from the Reserve Bank is required for all transfers of shares of Indian companies by nonresidents or foreign nationals to other persons, whether residents or nonresidents. However, the sale and transfer of shares of Indian companies through stock exchanges in India by nonresidents of Indian nationality or origin in favor of citizens of India or persons of Indian origin and Indian com- panies in which nonresident interest does not ex- ceed 40 percent do not require the Reserve Bank's clearance, where the proceeds of such shares sold by the transferor are credited to his ordinary non- resident rupee account with a bank authorized to deal in foreign exchange in India without a right of repatriation outside India. The transfer of shares by nonresidents in favor of nonresidents, residents, or non-FERA companies does not require clearance from the Reserve Bank, provided that the shares are purchased by the nonresidents under the portfolio investment scheme on a repatriation basis and are sold on stock exchanges through the same autho- rized dealer after a lock-in-period of one year. In such cases, the sale proceeds can be credited to NRE/FCNR accounts after deduction of tax or can be remitted abroad. The following capital transactions by residents require approval from the Reserve Bank: (1) any transaction that increases beyond 49 percent the nonresident share of a business outside India in which the nonresident interest is 49 percent or less; (2) holding, acquiring, transferring, or disposing of immovable property outside India (except where a lease of not more than five years is involved); (3) transfers of any interest in a business in India to a nonresident, a noncitizen, a nonbank company not incorporated under Indian law, or an Indian com- pany with over 40 percent foreign participation; (4) exportation of Indian securities and transfers of Indian securities to nonresidents; (5) guaranteeing of obligations of a nonresident or of a resident in favor of a nonresident; and (6) associations with or participation in any business concern outside India. Capital invested in approved projects after Jan- uary 1,1950 by residents of other countries, includ- ing capital appreciation on the original investment, may be repatriated at any time. However, Reserve Bank approval must be obtained before effecting a sale that involves repatriation of assets. The pro- ceeds of approved sales are allowed to be remitted in no more than four annual installments. The pro- ceeds from liquidated foreign investments not eligi- ble for repatriation are kept in a nonresident account. Indian nationals are not normally granted any foreign exchange facilities for emigration purposes. In cases of exceptional hardship, foreign exchange may be released up to a reasonable amount in one lump sum at the time of emigration; the remainder of the emigrant's assets and income is kept in a nonresident account, and no further remittances, including pensions, if any, are allowed.27 However, Indian nationals who left the country permanently before the introduction of exchange controls in India (that is, July 1947, against the erstwhile Sterling Area countries, and September 1939, against other 27From March 1,1992, foreign exchange at the free market rate is permitted for emigrants to meet initial expenses up to $500 a person or $1,000 a family. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 230 INDIA countries) are permitted to transfer abroad capital assets up to the equivalent of Rs 1 million in one lump sum, and the remaining balance in annual installments not exceeding Rs 250,000. Foreign na- tionals who are temporarily residing in India (other than nationals of China, Pakistan, and South Africa) and foreign diplomatic persons are permitted at the time of their retirement to transfer to their own countries the proceeds from the sale of their invest- ments, subject to a limit of Rs 500,000 for each family at the time of retirement, and the remainder in annual installments not exceeding Rs 250,000; in addition, they may transfer all their current remitta- ble assets in India. There are no restrictions on the importation into India of Indian or foreign securities. The acquisi- tion, sale, transfer, exportation, or other disposal of foreign securities requires approval. Residents (other than foreign nationals temporarily but not permanently residing in India and their foreign- born wives also not permanently residing in India) who are private persons are not normally permitted to purchase securities or personal real estate outside India. Foreign-born widows of Indian nationals are permitted to transfer initially a sum of Rs 500,000 at the time of leaving India permanently; thereafter, they are allowed to remit up to Rs 250,000 a year out of capital and income. Transfers abroad of legacies, inheritances, and bequests by persons who were never residents of India are subject to the same limits. Indian nationals and persons of Indian origin holding foreign passports residing abroad and wishing to return to India to secure suitable em- ployment, start a professional practice, or set up small-scale industrial units are, upon application, exempted for a period of five years from the date of their return to India from the requirement that any foreign currency balances in their possession be surrendered within three months of arrival. As an alternative to holding such balances in the form of foreign currency, holders may use the funds to im- port machinery, raw materials, and compcnents, subject to an import license, or, in small amounts, for personal requirements. Furthermore, they have the option of surrendering their balances imme- diately, with the right to reacquire them within five years should they decide to return to a foreign coun- try. Balances held in nonresident (external) ac- counts or foreign currency (nonresident) accounts in India by such persons on the date of their return to India are also eligible for similar retransfer or reconversion facilities. These various facilities are not available in respect of earnings arising from employment abroad with any Indian-owned organ- ization. Foreign nationals in India not permanently residing there are permitted to maintain foreign currency accounts; this permission is also extended to foreign nationals of Indian origin who have come to India for employment of a specified duration or for an assignment not exceeding three years. Under the Returning Indians Foreign Exchange Entitlement (RIFEE) scheme, persons of Indian na- tionality or origin returning to India for permanent residence are entitled to avail themselves of foreign exchange to the extent of 50 percent of the amount they brought in on transfer of residence, plus the balance held in their nonresident (external) ac- counts and foreign currency (nonresident) accounts for certain specified purposes for which exchange is normally not freely available.28 Persons eligible un- der the scheme may make use of the exchange facil- ity within a period of 15 years of the date of return of the head of the family. Gold The Gold Control Act, 1968 was repealed by the Gold Control Repeal Act, 1990 (on June 6, 1990). With the repeal of the Gold Control Act, there is no restriction on trade in gold. However, gold mines continue to sell gold to industrial users through the distribution network of the State Bank of India as well as through market sales. Forward trading in gold or silver is prohibited; exports of silver bullion, sheets, and plates are banned, and exports of silver products are subject to quota restrictions. With the exception of jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler, imports of gold in any form by residents other than the monetary au- thorities require special authorization from the Re- serve Bank and are not normally permitted; in cer- tain cases, however, jewelers are permitted to manufacture gold and silver jewelry in bond from imported gold and silver, for export purposes only. Under the Gold Jewelry Export Promotion Re- plenishment Scheme, exporters of ornaments and articles made of gold of specified fineness are en- titled to replenish their gold (imported by the State Bank of India and supplied at prices set by the Government of India) against release orders issued by the licensing authorities, provided that they sat- isfy value-added and other requirements of the 28With effect from February 22,1992, a new scheme called the resident foreign currency account scheme was introduced in place of the RIFEE scheme. Under the new scheme, returning Indian nationals are permitted to open and monitor resident foreign currency accounts in any permitted currency with autho- rized dealers in India within three months of their arrival in India to which 100 percent of the aforesaid amounts can be credited (A.D. M.A. Circular 10, dated February 22, 1992). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 231 scheme. Special permission for imports of gold and silver is granted only in exceptional cases where either no foreign exchange transaction is involved or the metals are needed for a particular purpose. Spe- cial permission is also granted when the gold or silver is imported for processing and re-exportation, provided that payment for the importation will not be required, that the entire quantity of metal im- ported will be re-exported in the form of jewelry, and that the value added will be repatriated to India in foreign exchange through an authorized dealer. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry produced in India for exportation with a gold value not exceeding 10 percent of total value, and jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler, sub- ject to certain monetary limits, are prohibited, un- less effected by or on behalf of the monetary au- thorities. The net exportation of gold from India is not permitted. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement July 1. The exchange rate was adjusted from Rs 21.00 per US$1 to Rs 23.12 per US$1. July 3. The exchange rate was fur ther adjusted from Rs 23.12 per US$1 to Rs 25.95 per US$1. Imports and Import Payments January 5. Sixteen raw materials and components were removed from the open general license (OGL) list and became importable only against import re- plenishment (REP) licenses or additional licenses. March 19. The advance import deposit require- ment (cash margins), which was introduced in October 1990 for raw material imports financed on letters of credit, was extended to all imports (irre- spective of method of financing), except for imports of capital goods, and the percentages were in- creased to between 50 percent and 133Vs percent. Advance deposits would be required at the time of opening of letters of credit or at the time of place- ment of orders and must be maintained until the retirement of import documents, subject to a mini- mum of three months. Imports by government de- partments and of petroleum oil and lubricants, fer- tilizers, food grains, edible oil, newsprint, and life- saving drugs would be exempted. Letters of credit exceeding Rs 2.5 million and remittances for non- capital goods imports exceeding Rs 5 million would require prior clearance from the banks' head offices and the Reserve Bank, respectively. Imports of capi- tal goods were permitted only against foreign ex- change lines of credit available with financial in- stitutions, and not against foreign exchange cash. April 1. The advance deposit requirement for im- ports by export-oriented units and exporters' im- ports against advance licenses, advance intermedi- ate licenses, imprest licenses, and special imprest licenses for own consumption was eliminated, pro- vided that exporters had no outstanding export bills exceeding six months of the export date. The ratio of advance deposits on imports against REP licenses, additional licenses, and special additional licenses was reduced to 50 percent from 100 percent, pro- vided that export proceeds were fully realized. April 22. The ratios of advance deposits were in- creased up to 200 percent, but deposits would earn interest comparable to that on other deposits of similar maturity. Letters of credit opened or remit- tances for imports by an individual exceeding Rs 20 million would require prior clearance from the Re- serve Bank. April 25. Commercial banks were permitted to honor letters of credit for imports of capital goods that were opened on or before March 19,1991 and to provide foreign exchange for capital goods imports shipped on or before this date. May 9. An interest surcharge of 25 percent was imposed on all import finance extended by autho- rized dealers. June 6. Advance deposits for imports other than capital goods were exempted for certain manu- facturer-exporters —of finished leather products, chemicals and pharmaceuticals, engineering goods, garment and marine products —for up to 10 percent of actual export realizations from the General Currency Area during the previous ac- counting year, subject to a ceiling of Rs 25 million (provided no export bills were outstanding for more than six months). Noncapital goods imports under suppliers' credits for one year or longer were ex- empted from the advance deposit requirement. The cumulative limit applicable to exporters for import payments requiring prior clearance by the Reserve Bank was revised upward to Rs 20 million, plus 20 percent of the previous year's exports, subject to a ceiling of Rs 50 million. July 4. The system of REP licenses for exporters was enlarged, with exporters earning import en- titlement (renamed EXIM scrip) equivalent to 30 percent of the value of their exports compared with the previous rates of between 5 and 20 percent. The 30 percent rate would apply to all exports except for gems and jewelry and certain handicrafts. The coverage of EXIM scrip was enlarged to include all items under the limited permissible list, OGL items for actual users, some nonsensitive items on the canalized list, and non-OGL capital goods other than those on the restricted list. All additional li- censes were abolished. Export and trading houses ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 232 INDIA were granted an EXIM scrip rate of 35 percent. Supplementary licenses were also abolished except for the small-scale sector and for producers of life- saving drugs/equipment. The replenishment rate for advance license exports was increased to 20 per- cent from 10 percent of net foreign exchange earnings. July 24. The maximum rate of basic and auxiliary ad valorem import duties was reduced to 150 per- cent, and a duty relief of 10 percentage points was introduced for nearly every item for which auxiliary duties had been increased. The import duties on capital goods for general projects and machinery were reduced to 80 percent from 85 percent, with a reduction of 5 percentage points on their compo- nents. Procedures for the importation of capital goods were simplified with new units that were undergoing substantial expansion automatically being granted licenses to import capital goods (other than those on the restricted list) without in- digenous availability clearance, provided that the importation of capital goods is fully covered by for- eign equity or the import requirement is up to 25 percent of the value of plant and machinery sub- ject to a maximum of Rs 20 million. August 1. All items not on the limited permissible, restricted, or canalized lists were made freely im- portable under EXIM scrip, instead of under the OGL system. Nonresident Indian nationals return- ing to India permanently for the purpose of setting up small industries were permitted to import under OGL all raw materials, except for restricted and canalized items, subject to a value limit. The prior clearance requirement on the cumulative value of imports was abolished. Imports of raw materials and intermediate goods used in the manufacture of bulk drugs and formulations were exempted from the advance deposit requirement. August 9. Imports of certain types of hides, skins, leather, and chemicals by manufacturer-exporters, export houses, and trading houses were exempted from the advance deposit requirement, provided that no export bills in excess of a specified level are outstanding. The limit on exemption from the ad- vance deposit requirement for noncapital goods im- ports by certain manufacturer-exporters was raised to 20 percent of the previous year's exports with a ceiling of Rs 50 million. August 13. Certain export items, such as value- added agricultural products, electronics, bulk drugs, marine products, and certain categories of advance engineering goods became eligible for an additional EXIM scrip entitlement of 10 percentage points, raising the rate for these items to 40 percent of the f .o.b. value. The EXIM scrip rate of 30 percent was made applicable, on a net foreign exchange basis, to certain service exports. Twenty import items were decanalized, of which 6 were placed on the OGL and 14 were made available for imports with EXIM scrip. The replenishment rate for ad- vance license exports was increased to 30 percent. September 13. Imports of noncapital goods under the EXIM scrip and of raw cashew nuts for process- ing were exempted from the advance deposit requirement. October 8. The advance deposit requirement on OGL imports was lowered to 150 percent from 200 percent. The limit on exemption from the ad- vance deposit requirement for noncapital goods im- ports by certain manufacturer-exporters was raised to 30 percent of the previous year's exports with a ceiling of Rs 100 million, and export and trading houses in the woolen and carpet industry, hand- icrafts, sports goods industry, agro products, and processed foods were made eligible for this exemption. November 14. Letters of credit or remittances for imports of noncapital goods that are exempt from the advance deposit requirement were no longer required to be cleared by the Reserve Bank. December 9. The ratio of advance deposits on most imports was lowered to 50 percent from 150 percent. Payments for Invisibles April 23. Clearance of the Reserve Bank was re- quired for payments to any person resident outside India exceeding the equivalent of Rs 25 million, except for repayments of balances in foreign cur- rency nonresident accounts, nonresident external rupee accounts, and interbank transactions. Exports and Export Proceeds August 13. Sixteen export items previously re- served for state trading enterprises (canalized) were decanalized. Capital July 24. The regulations on foreign direct invest- ments were liberalized significantly. Foreign capital participation of up to 51 percent in high-priority in- dustries would be given prompt approval, provided that equity inflows are sufficient to cover the foreign exchange requirement for imported capital goods. Dividend payments would be monitored by the Re- serve Bank to ensure that dividend transfers are bal- anced by export earnings over a period of time. For- eign equity investments would also be allowed for trading companies primarily engaged in export ac- tivities. Other equity investments, including those ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 233 involving 51 percent foreign equity that do not meet the above criterion, would continue to need prior clearance but the clearance procedures were sim- plified. A special board would be established to nego- tiate with large international firms and approve direct foreign investments in selected areas. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement March 1. The EXIM scrip system was replaced by a dual exchange rate system, under which foreign exchange at the official rate would be provided only for certain imports, including imports by govern- ment departments, crude oil, fertilizers, and life- saving drugs. All other imports and all capital ac- count transactions, except for official grants and IMF transactions, but including interest payments on external debt, would be financed at the free mar- ket rate. Exporters would be required to surrender 40 percent of their receipts at the official exchange rate, and the remaining 60 percent would be al- lowed to be sold at the free market rate. Imports and Import Payments February 12. The advance deposit requirement for noncapital goods imports was abolished. February 13. The 25 percent interest surcharge on import finances extended by authorized banks was abolished. February 18. The free use of foreign exchange up to Rs 5 million was permitted for the importation of capital goods. Capital January 29. The regulations governing the activity of firms with foreign capital equity participation exceeding 40 percent were relaxed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Indonesia is the Indonesian Rupiah. The exchange value of the rupiah is deter- mined by Bank Indonesia under a system of man- aged float. The U.S. dollar is the intervention cur- rency. On December 31, 1991, the buying and selling rates for spot transactions were Rp 1,989.0 and Rp 1,995.0, respectively, per US$1. Exchange rates for certain other currencies1 are determined on the basis of the rates in the bourse for the U.S. dollar and rates for the currencies concerned in interna- tional markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Since September 1989, Bank Indonesia's an- nounced exchange rate applies only to certain trans- actions undertaken at particular times of the day. For all other transactions, banks are free to set their own rates. The purchase and sale of foreign currency bills by Bank Indonesia are conducted from 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon on the basis of an indicative rate announced at 8:00 a.m. This rate is also used for swap and reswap transactions as well as for export draft discounts with Bank Indonesia. Spot and for- ward transactions, however, are conducted at rates fixed bilaterally between Bank Indonesia and the bank concerned. From 3:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday and from 11:30 a.m. to 12:00 noon on Saturday, Bank Indonesia fixes a rate for spot transactions with banks; such transactions are normally conducted to enable the banks to ar- rive at their net open position. All transactions be- tween Bank Indonesia and other banks may be con- cluded through the dealing room using telecommunications. Foreign exchange transactions are restricted to the authorized foreign exchange banks, nonbank financial institutions, and licensed money chang- ers. Bank Indonesia stands ready to trade unlimited amounts of foreign exchange or rupiah with autho- rized traders at its intervention rates for the day. Until November 1991, Bank Indonesia provided to banks and other financial institutions virtually Currencies commonly used in Indonesia's international transactions —that is, Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Brunei dollars, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Malaysian ringgit, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Norwegian kroner, Philippine pesos, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and Thai baht. unlimited forward cover in the form of foreign exchange/rupiah swaps at forward premiums (spot sale of foreign exchange to Bank Indonesia, matched by a forward purchase). Since 1983, this facility has been available only for bona fide offshore borrowing. Since October 27, 1988, the minimum premium on official swaps, which was previously set by Bank Indonesia at the fixed rate of 8 percent, has been set on the basis of prevailing market condi- tions as indicated by the difference between the average domestic deposit rate and LIBOR. In March 1991, Bank Indonesia ceased to accept swaps for one-month and shorter maturities, and reduced banks' overall limits to 20 percent from 25 percent of capital. In November 1991, the swap facility was modified, and two categories of swaps were cre- ated: liquidity swaps (with maturities of up to two years) and investment swaps (with two-three years' maturity), and Bank Indonesia relinquished the ob- ligation to accept swaps with maturities of less than two years. The Government does not make any commitment on the size of the premium beyond a 12-month period. In March 1991, the commercial banks' gross exter- nal borrowing limit was removed, and a limit was placed on their net open position (20 percent of their own capital, on a daily basis). In November 1991, this requirement was extended to banks' off- balance-sheet accounts. The net open position is defined as the net balance between foreign ex- change assets and liabilities after the administrative position is taken into account. A bank that main- tains a net open position exceeding the limit will be subject to a sanction. Indonesia formally accepted the obligations of Ar- ticle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 7, 1988. Administration of Control Administration of the exchange and trade system is entrusted to Bank Indonesia, the Ministry of Trade, the Ministry of Finance, foreign exchange banks, and the customs authorities. Policies on for- eign exchange market operations are taken by Bank Indonesia and the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized foreign exchange banks and are nor- mally effected in convertible currencies. Indonesia 234 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA 235 maintains no operative bilateral payments agreements. Nonresident Accounts There are no restrictions on the opening by resi- dents or foreign nationals of accounts in Indonesia in rupiah or foreign currencies with authorized for- eign exchange banks. However, if the holder of an account in foreign exchange wishes to withdraw funds, he must send a letter to the bank; no checks may be drawn on foreign currency accounts. Imports and Import Payments There is a registry of authorized importers. Only Indonesian nationals can be authorized as im- porters, although foreign investors are permitted to import the items required for their own projects. Imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited, as are imports from all sources of most secondhand goods and of specified products. The only secondhand goods that may be imported are machinery or factory machinery used for producing export products. Certain categories of agricultural imports, including different categories of food, bev- erages, and fruits, may be imported only by regis- tered importers designated by the Minister of Trade. The procurement policies of companies ap- proved for the importation of fruit, alcoholic bev- erages, and chickens are evaluated annually by the Government, although explicit quantitative restric- tions are not placed on these products. Since mid-1985, import controls on several product categories (for example, certain chemicals, steel, foods and beverages, textiles, and agricultural prod- ucts) have been progressively removed. Controls re- main on about 12 percent of total imports. Imports of certain goods remain restricted to approved im- porters, most of which are state enterprises. Per- tamina has a monopoly on the importation of lubricat- ing oil and lubricating fats, and PT Dahana, on the importation of ammunition and explosive gelatin. The Board of Logistics (BULOG) has the sole right to im- port rice, fertilizer, and sugar, but its monopoly on maize imports was revoked in September 1989 and that on soybean meal in June 1991. The monopoly rights of approved importers (sole agents) also remain in effect for the importation of certain heavy equip- ment and motor vehicles, although this right may be transferred to general importers. Restrictions on the importation of trucks were reimposed in Octo- ber 1991. Certain products are granted preferential duties within the framework of the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN). Imports into Indonesia are subject to preship- ment inspection in the exporting country by private international agencies; the inspection cost is borne by the Indonesian Government. Following inspec- tion, these agencies are required to issue a survey report (LKP) specifying the type, quality, quantity, and estimated cost of the goods, the applicable tariff code, freight charges, import duties, and value- added taxes; in the case of imports without a letter of credit, the LKP must be sent to an Indonesian bank designated by the importer, which in turn must send the bill of lading and the LKP to a foreign exchange bank. In the case of imports under letters of credit, the LKP is sent to the correspondent banks. After paying duties (which are determined on the declared c . i .f. value or the c .i .f. value as estimated by private international agencies) and taxes to the bank, the importer is given the bill of lading and the validated LKP, which he must pre- sent to customs for release of the shipment. The Directorate General of Customs and Excise does not examine goods that have an LKP, except those that are valued at less than $5,000 or are suspected to be illegally imported. Imports for foreign capital in- vestment and domestic capital investment must have an LKP. Cement-asbestos sheets, dry bat- teries, steel slabs, low-voltage electric cord, and electric light bulbs are subject to quality control. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited, as are exports to all countries of rawhides of cattle, certain categories of unprocessed or low-quality rubber, certain logs and timber, brass and copper scrap (except from Irian Jaya), iron scrap, steel scrap, antiques of cultural value, and raw rattan. Since 1987, exporters are no longer required to ob- tain an exporter's identification numbers (APE and APET) to carry out export activities. Exporters are only required to possess trade permits, or "Surat Izin Usaha" (SIU), which are issued by relevant government institutions. Certain producer- exporters of rubber, plywood, and animal feed may issue certificates of quality for their products. Quality controls are also maintained on exports of fish, manioc (cassava), shrimp, coffee, tea, pepper, spices, vegetable oil, and cocoa beans. Exports of certain domestically produced commodities are controlled by a requirement of prior authorization from the Ministry of Trade in order to maintain supplies to meet domestic demand and to encour- age domestic processing of certain raw materials.2 2Items affected by such controls include clove seeds, logs, fertilizer, cement, construction reinforcements of iron, auto- mobile tires, paper, asphalt, stearin, cattle, salt, wheat flour, maize, soybeans, rice, copra, olein, raw rattan, meat, and all goods from subsidized raw materials. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 236 INDONESIA Concern with domestic price stability sometimes involves suspension of exports of various items on this list. In 1990, exports of cement and clinkers were allowed with the approval of the Ministry of Trade and they were to be carried out by producer- exporters of cement and clinkers, as shortages de- veloped on the domestic market. Exports of several categories of gold and silver may be conducted only by exporters who possess certification from FT Aneka Tambang and a recommendation authoriza- tion from the Ministry of Trade. Most other products are freely exported by regis- tered private firms and state trading firms. How- ever, manioc (cassava) may be exported only by ap- proved exporters, and only to non-EC countries. As of November 1, 1989, pepper has been exempted from certain previous export restrictions and may henceforth be exported by all companies posses- sing an SIU. Exports of nutmeg/mace, cassiavera, tengkewang seeds, coffee, and vegetables from North Sumatra have been liberalized since May 1990. Exports of textiles and textile products subject to import quotas in the consuming countries may be effected only by approved textile exporters, who may transfer their allocated quotas to other approved exporters through the Commodity Ex- change Board. All exports of wood and wood products must be examined before shipment, and exports of sawn timber and wood products require approval from the joint marketing body and may be conducted only by approved exporters. A minimum price of $250 a cubic meter applies to exports of sawn and processed timber, and export taxes ranging from $250 to $2,400 a cubic meter are imposed on these products. While the rate of export tax for raw logs is levied in the range of $500 to $4,800 a cubic meter, certain processed woods, such as finger-jointed walls, panels, and molding are not taxed. Certain other products are subject to an export tax, specifi- cally, natural sands, 10 percent; semiprocessed rat- tan for cultural purposes, 30 percent; and specific rattan, 20 percent. For all goods subject to the export tax and the export surcharge, payment is due when the exports are registered with foreign exchange banks. If the export tax and export surcharge are not yet settled at the time of registration, exporters are required to submit promissory notes for their value. Prom- issory notes may be settled in three ways. Exports without a letter of credit should be settled with the foreign exchange bank not later than 30 days from the date of export registration. Exports using con- signment and usance letters of credit should be settled not later than 90 days from the date of export registration. Exports with sight letters of credit con- ditions must be settled not later than 30 days from the date the exports are registered with the foreign exchange bank. Since October 1989, the special permit for export- ing coffee (Surat Perjanjian Ekspor Kopi, or SPEK), which was formerly allowed only from certain provinces, has been eliminated, and shipments have been allowed from all provinces in Indonesia. This decision was made in light of the suspension of coffee export quotas by the International Coffee Or- ganization (ICO). In January 1990, subsidized ex- port credits were removed completely. There are no restrictions on the type of financial arrangement exporters may use. There is no sur- render requirement for export proceeds. In the cal- culation of export taxes on the principal com- modities other than petroleum and gas, sale prices must not be lower than the "indicative" prices deter- mined periodically by the Minister of Trade. To enable producer-exporters to obtain their im- ported inputs at international prices, exporters and suppliers of inputs for exporters are permitted to bypass the import-licensing system and import tar- iffs or, if they cannot bypass the system, to reclaim import duties; the costs imposed by nontariff bar- riers, however, cannot be rebated.3 Certain commodities produced in border regions may be exported to Malaysia and the Philippines in exchange for certain goods. In this "border- crossing" trade with Malaysia, the value of import or export transactions must not exceed M$600 for a single trip or M$3,000 a month, whether trans- ported overland or by sea. For the Philippines, the value of imports or exports must not exceed the rupiah or peso equivalent of US$150 for a single trip if transported by seagoing vessel, or US$1,500 if transported by smaller boats. Since January 1982, the Indonesian Government has, at its option, required all foreign firms bidding for government-sponsored construction or procure- ment projects, of which the import component has a value of over Rp 500 million, to agree to fulfill a counterpurchase obligation. Bidders for projects that include counterpurchase requirements must 3Under this scheme, exporters are classified as producer- exporters (firms that export at least 65 percent of their total production) or as exporter-producers (firms that export 85 per- cent of their production and producers of textiles in general). Producer-exporters may bring into the country their imports free of licensing restrictions and import duties, but with ex post documentation. If exporter-producers can demonstrate that their output was, or will be, exported or that their output was an input in an exported output, then they can also receive the same permission to import their inputs as producer-exporters. The scheme also allows indirect exporters to reclaim import duties through a duty drawback facility. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA 237 submit with their bids a letter agreeing to purchase and export the equivalent of the contract's value in selected Indonesian products (f .o .b .) during the life of the contract.4 Goods that may be used to meet the counterpurchase requirement include agricultural products, and manufactured and other products, excluding petroleum, natural gas, and items subject to export quotas. The foreign supplier may fulfill the counterpurchase requirement either directly or through a third party, possibly from another coun- try that is acceptable to the Indonesian Govern- ment. Such an arrangement must meet the condi- tion of "additionality"; that is, the counterpurchases by the third party have to be in addition to regular exports from Indonesia. Indonesian products other than oil and natural gas purchased under coun- tertrade arrangements must be shipped regularly and in stages during the validity of the contract on the government procurement, and these shipment obligations have to be completed at the end of such a purchasing contract. If, at the end of the completion of the project/implementation of the purchase (gov- ernment import), the exportation from Indonesia has not been completed, either partly or entirely, a penalty will be imposed on the successful bidder of the tender or on the party to whom such obligation has been delegated, to the extent of 50 percent of the export value (to date this provision has not been implemented). Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are neither restricted nor subject to control. Proceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered. Travelers may take out and bring in any amount in foreign bank notes but only Rp 50,000 in Indonesian notes and coins other than gold and silver com- memorative coins (see section on Gold, below). Capital Foreign capital invested in Indonesia is governed primarily by the Foreign Capital Investment Law of January 10, 1967, as subsequently amended by a number of presidential guidelines and decrees. Since January 1974, all foreign direct investments have been required to be undertaken through joint 4The following are exempted from these requirements: (1) sources of import financing that are derived from soft loans, and loans from the World Bank, the Islamic Development Bank, and the Asian Development Bank; (2) domestic components contained in the contract with the foreign suppliers, such as components of services, goods, and taxes/duties; (3) services that are used by various government agencies related to specific expertise, such as foreign accountants, lawyers, surveyors, con- sultants' services, purchases of technology (patents), etc.; and (4) purchases or imports under the joint-venture system between state companies and foreign companies. ventures with Indonesian partners. All investments in Indonesia require the approval of the president on the recommendation of the Capital Investment Coordinating Board (BKPM). Enterprises that are wholly or largely operated in Indonesia as separate business units must be incorporated under Indone- sian law and must have their domicile in Indonesia. The operating permit for foreign investment is usu- ally valid for a maximum of 30 years. Investment- licensing requirements were liberalized in June 1991. In general, the local partner in a joint-venture enterprise must own at least 20 percent of the eq- uity, and its share must increase to 51 percent within 15 years of the commencement of produc- tion. For enterprises with an investment of more than $10 million, those located in one of the ten designated developing provinces, or those export- ing more than 65 percent of their production, the minimum Indonesian ownership is 5 percent; this percentage increases to 20 percent after 10 years and to 51 percent in 15 years. This period may be ex- tended if certain conditions are met. A foreign joint-venture enterprise located in a bonded zone or in zones with the status of private entrepots and exporting 100 percent of its produc- tion is allowed to have national share participation of 5 percent or more; there is no obligation to increase the share participation. A foreign joint-venture en- terprise may be treated as a domestic enterprise if at least 45 percent of the share is owned by Indonesian nationals, with a minimum 20 percent being sold through the stock market. Investment incentives for foreign capital invest- ment in existence before 1984 in the form of tax holidays, investment allowances, loss compensa- tion, and exemptions from dividend taxes have been abolished. The incentives currently applied for for- eign investments are an exemption or relief from import duties on capital goods, raw materials, aux- iliary goods, and spare parts. There is an annual depreciation allowance of 25 percent for fiscal pur- poses on virtually all machinery and other produc- tive capital goods and deferral of value-added tax on imports of capital goods. All foreign enterprises (PMAs) are eligible to re- ceive customs duty incentives for their imported raw materials needed for two years' production ac- tivity. Raw materials may be imported with no time limit. In addition, an enterprise exporting more than 65 percent of its production is free to hire foreign experts as needed to maintain its export commitments. Managers of representative offices of a foreign company are granted multiple exit and re- entry permits for six months and are exempted from the Rp 25,000 departure tax. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 238 INDONESIA Investors are granted the right to repatriate capi- tal, to transfer profits (after settlement of taxes and financial obligations in Indonesia), and to make transfers relating to expenses connected with the employment of foreign nationals in Indonesia, and in respect of depreciation allowances. The law provides that no transfer permit shall be issued for capital repatriation as long as investment benefits from tax relief are being received; at present, how- ever, foreign payments do not require a transfer permit. There are no limitations on the remittance to In- donesia of capital in the form of foreign exchange or commodities. Both residents and nonresidents may hold foreign currency deposits with foreign ex- change banks. However, foreign exchange banks and nonbank financial institutions are subject to Bank Indonesia directives with respect to borrowing abroad, the acceptance of deposits from nonresi- dents, and the issuance of certificates of deposit to nonresidents. Since October 27, 1988, a 2 percent reserve requirement is applicable to the foreign cur- rency liabilities of foreign exchange banks; no re- serve requirements are applicable to the foreign borrowings of nonbank financial institutions or pri- vate companies. As of November 1991, banks' short- term foreign exchange liabilities cannot exceed 30 percent of their own capital, and they are re- quired to allocate at least 80 percent of all foreign exchange loans to businesses earning foreign ex- change. A Debt Management Team (consisting of the State Secretary, the ministers of all economic portfolios, and the Governor of Bank Indonesia) was established in September 1991 to supervise all for- eign loan transactions. In October 1991, the team imposed annual ceilings on foreign borrowing from commercial sources over the next five years. The prior approval of the team is required before any public enterprise, state bank, or public sector body may accept a loan from abroad. Indonesian citizens and residents of foreign na- tionality may freely transfer, negotiate, import, and export securities denominated in rupiah or in for- eign currency. The exploration and development of petroleum resources are governed principally by the Petroleum Law of 1960. Rp 130,000 a person in gold and silver coins issued in October 1974; amounts in excess of these limits require the prior approval of Bank Indonesia. Gold may be imported freely. Imports are subject to an additional levy of Rp 25 per US$1. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement March 1. Bank Indonesia reduced the limits on banks' net open position in foreign currency and on their outstanding stock of swaps to 20 percent from 25 percent of capital and ceased to accept swaps with one-month or shorter maturities. November 1. The following measures were an- nounced: (1) banks were required to keep the net open position in foreign currency including their off-balance-sheet accounts at or below 20 percent of capital; and (2) the swap facility was modified, with Bank Indonesia relinquishing the obligation to ac- cept swaps with maturities of less than two years. Imports and Import Payments June 3. The following import liberalization measures were implemented: (1) import restrictions were re- placed by tariffs on 322 items (in particular agri- cultural and vehicle assembly products), reducing the proportion of imports subject to administrative re- strictions to 12 percent from 15 percent; (2) split tariffs were eliminated, the maximum tariff rate on finished goods was lowered to 30 percent from 40 percent, and that on intermediate goods to 15 percent, and the number of items with tariff rates higher than 35 per- cent was reduced (all of these measures reducing the total number of tariff items to 9,303 from 9,492 and the (unweighted) average tariff rate to 20 percent from 22 percent); and (3) surcharges on 137 products (out of 542) were removed. August 15. Imports of completely built trucks were prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds June 3. All restrictions on exports of edible oils, including the producers' requirement to allocate a fraction of their output to the domestic market, were eliminated. Gold Capital Indonesia has issued two commemorative gold coins, which are legal tender. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold and gold coins in Indo- nesia. Travelers may freely take out up to Rp 65,000 a person in Indonesian commemorative gold and silver coins issued in August 1970, and up to June 3. Investment-licensing requirements were liberalized. The number of activities included in the negative list was reduced to 60 from 70, and domes- tic and foreign investors were allowed to grant li- censes under pre-specified conditions, thus par- tially deregulating 31 other activities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA 239 September 1. A Debt Management Team (consisting of the State Secretary, the ministers of all economic portfolios, and the Governor of Bank Indonesia) was established to supervise foreign loan transactions and set annual targets for the total amount of foreign borrowing from commercial sources. October 10. The Debt Management Team an- nounced annual ceilings for commercial borrowings over the next five years, with subceilings for individ- ual sectors. November 5. Bank Indonesia limited banks' short- term foreign exchange liabilities (up to two years, excluding trade-related financing) to 30 percent of capital, and required that at least 80 percent of all foreign exchange loans be allocated to businesses earning foreign exchange. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN (Position on December 31,1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Islamic Republic of Iran is the Iranian Rial, which is pegged to the SDR at Rls 92.300 per SDR 1. There are three exchange rates: (1) The official exchange rate expressed in terms of the U.S. dollar is determined daily by Bank Markazi (the central bank) on the basis of the SDR- rial rate. On December 31, 1991, the official buying and selling rates of Bank Markazi for the U.S. dollar were Rls 64.141 and Rls 65.041, respectively, per US$1. The official rate is applied mainly to receipts from exports of oil and to payments for imports of essential goods, military items, and goods used in important national projects and for certain invisible and public sector capital transactions. (2) The com- petitive exchange rate is applied to other imports; at the end of 1991, it was Rls 600 per US$1. (3) The floating exchange rate is applied to all other transac- tions not subject to the above-mentioned two rates. The floating exchange rate is announced daily by Bank Markazi on the basis of free market rates, and on December 31, 1991, its buying and selling rates were Rls 1,420 and Rls 1,424, respectively, per US$1. There is also a free market exchange rate that applies to other transactions. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in Bank Markazi. All foreign exchange transactions other than those permitted through the free exchange market must take place through Bank Markazi or authorized banks. Imports and exports are gov- erned by regulations issued periodically by the Min- istry of Commerce after approval by the Council of Ministers. Prescription of Currency Transactions with countries with which the Is- lamic Republic of Iran maintains bilateral payments agreements are conducted in accordance with the terms of these agreements.1 Settlements of current transactions with the member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) may be effected in Asian Monetary Units (AMUs).2 Final settlements, when necessary, take place by converting AMUs to an agreed currency. The Islamic Republic of Iran also maintains a tri- lateral payments arrangement with Pakistan and Turkey within the framework of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Nonresident Accounts Foreign nationals may maintain rial accounts and foreign currency accounts with authorized banks. Balances on rial accounts may be used only in the Islamic Republic of Iran. Foreign nationals and Ira- nian nonresidents may also maintain rial and for- eign exchange accounts with branches of Iranian banks in the Persian Gulf region. Imports and Import Payments All imports into the Islamic Republic of Iran, ex- cept for special military and pharmaceutical goods and souvenirs and gifts brought in by incoming travelers, are required to be authorized by the Min- istry of Commerce before they are registered with the authorized banks. Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Import allocations for ministries and institutions are established under a foreign exchange budget approved by Parliament. These ministries and institutions then make their own allocations among different product groups and between the public and private sectors. All imports require prior approval from the Procure- ment and Distribution Centers, except for goods imported by the Ministry of Defense and certain other military goods. Import policy is reviewed pe- riodically at the end of each Iranian calendar year (March 20), and new regulations, to be effective the following year, are published by the Ministry of Commerce. Under the regulations, goods are classi- fied into "authorized," "unauthorized," and "pro- hibited" categories. The importation of authorized goods is not restricted. The importation of unautho- rized goods may either be temporarily prohibited or permitted after fulfillment of certain requirements. The importation of goods in the prohibited category is not allowed. *At present, bilateral payment agreements are maintained with Algeria, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and the Syrian Arab Republic. 2The member countries of the ACU are Bangladesh, India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. 240 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN 241 At the time of registration of imports at the autho- rized banks, a registration fee of 15 percent of the c.i.f. value is payable for ordinary goods; the regis- tration fee is 5 percent for essential goods. For cer- tain goods, importers must also lodge an additional registration deposit of 15 percent of the c . i . f. value of the import order with Bank Markazi through the authorized banks. Most food items and certain other products are, however, exempted from the deposit requirement. The registration deposit is not interest bearing and is refunded on presentation of customs clearance certificates or when the import order is canceled; if the actual import value is less than 90 percent of the import order, the amount of refund of the registration deposit is reduced by the ratio between the actual import value and the im- port order. Bank Markazi may shift goods between the category for which the registration deposit is required and the category that is exempted from the registration deposit requirement. Most imports are subject to a specific or ad val- orem commercial benefit tax, which is additional to any applicable customs duty and is payable to customs before goods are cleared. Monopoly taxes, when applicable, are included in the commercial benefit tax. The rate of commercial benefit tax for each year is specified in the export-import regula- tions. Clearance of goods through customs is autho- rized upon presentation of shipping documents en- dorsed by an authorized bank and a permit issued by the relevant Procurement and Distribution Cen- ters; permits may be issued at the time of opening of letters of credit and need not be reissued. Goods that are not handled by these centers do not require a permit. Certain goods, such as pharmaceuticals and imports by the Ministry of Post, Telegraph, and Telephone, must be accompanied by a special per- mit when they are cleared through customs. In the transportation of goods for which import letters of credit have been opened, priority must be accorded to the Iranian transportation carriers (air, land, or sea). Individuals residing in the Persian Gulf region may open import letters of credit in Iranian rials. The limit on the amount of goods that an incom- ing traveler is permitted to import is governed by the export-import regulations. Payments for Invisibles Persons needing medical treatment abroad may obtain foreign exchange at the official exchange rate up to the amount approved by the High Medical Council of the Ministry of Health. Patients who have been officially certified as needing treatment abroad but who are not allowed to purchase foreign exchange or who do not receive the total amount needed to finance their medical treatment at the official rate may purchase their foreign exchange requirements at the competitive exchange rate. Pa- tients who are not entitled to use any of the ap- proved facilities for foreign exchange may purchase foreign exchange at the floating rate up to the re- quired amounts with the approval of the High Med- ical Council of the Ministry of Health or of the politi- cal representative office resident in the country of treatment. Foreign exchange allowances are provided at the official rate for students who have been approved by the Ministry of Higher Education to study abroad. The amount of the allowance varies according to the cost of living in the country of study, up to a max- imum of $1,470 a month; an additional allowance of 60 percent and 30 percent of the basic allowance may be approved for the spouse and for each child, re- spectively. In certain cases, where this allowance is not sufficient to cover tuition costs, additional amounts may be approved. Students who are not eligible to obtain foreign exchange at the official rate may obtain their foreign exchange at the floating rate up to the same limits as those who have been approved by the Ministry of Higher Education. The transfer of premiums for reinsurance can be effected by the Central Insurance Company of Iran, Iran Insurance Company, Asia Insurance Com- pany, or Alborz Insurance Company through their respective foreign exchange accounts. Iranian in- surance companies may issue insurance contracts denominated in foreign currencies for imported goods, but only Iran Insurance Company may issue war risk insurance in foreign currency. The transfer of income derived from ticket sales by foreign airline companies located in Iran may be allowed at the competitive exchange rate. Foreign nationals whose services are considered essential are allowed to remit up to 30 percent of their net salaries at the official rate with the approval of Bank Markazi. Foreign exchange from foreign currency-denominated accounts may be transferred by natural persons without restriction. Iranian na- tionals traveling abroad may purchase foreign ex- change up to $1,500 a person, and a group of persons on the same passport may purchase foreign exchange up to a maximum of $5,000. Iranian nationals travel- ing for business purposes approved by the Ministry of Commerce may purchase additional foreign exchange at the floating rate up to $500 a trip. Iranian nationals leaving the country must pay an exit fee of Rls 50,000 for the first trip and Rls 100,000 for each successive trip. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 242 ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN Travelers leaving the Islamic Republic of Iran may take out with them up to Rls 20,000 in Iranian bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of all products must be made in accor- dance with relevant regulations. Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Exports of non-oil products are not subject to any limitation; the only requirement is that an authorization be obtained from the Ministry of Commerce for exports for sta- tistical purposes and the foreign exchange commit- ment be placed with an authorized bank to ensure that foreign exchange earned from exports is sold at the floating exchange rate. Exporters of non-oil products are allowed to import authorized goods up to the value of exports at the floating exchange rate. Proceeds from Invisibles Iranian nationals may retain their foreign ex- change earnings in foreign currency accounts with the authorized banks. Sale of foreign exchange to the authorized bank is permitted by natural and juridical persons, either Iranian or foreign (with the exception of embassies and representatives of air- line companies), at the floating rate without restriction. Authorized banks may purchase foreign ex- change from transportation companies that provide customs and transit services through Iran and from embassies and foreign political representatives in Iran for financing their expenses in Iran at the com- petitive exchange rate. The representatives of banks, other foreign companies, and foreign ship- ping companies in Iran may sell their foreign ex- change at the floating rate to authorized banks. There is no limit on the amount of foreign ex- change travelers may bring into the country. Capital Foreign direct investments undertaken in accor- dance with the Law Concerning the Attraction and Protection of Foreign Capital Investments in Iran are supervised by the Organization for Investment and Economic and Technical Assistance of the Ministry of Economic Affa irs and Finance. Repatriation of capital and transfers of dividends may be effected with the approval of this organization and Bank Markazi and in accordance with this law. Authoriza- tion and disbursements of public sector loans take place at the official exchange rate. The net short- term foreign liabilities of the commercial banks are subject to a reserve requirement of 25 percent. Gold No Iranian gold coin is legal tender. Residents may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold, platinum, and silver in the domestic mar- ket. Authority to export gold for monetary purposes is reserved for Bank Markazi. Authorized banks as well as natural and juridical persons may import gold, platinum, and silver bullion for commercial purposes in accordance with the relevant pro- cedures. The importation of jewelry by a traveler is permitted up to Rls 5 million, provided that it is recorded on the passport and re-exported; the im- portation of jewelry whose value exceeds this amount requires approval from Bank Markazi. The exportation of Iranian gold coins for numismatic purposes requires prior approval from Bank Markazi. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement January 21. The exchange rate system was sim- plified to comprise the following three rates: (1) an official rate applicable to receipts from exports of oil and to payments for imports of essential goods, military items, and goods used in important na- tional projects and for certain invisible and public sector transactions; (2) a competitive rate applicable to other imports; and (3) a floating rate to be set daily by Bank Markazi on the basis of rates in the free market and applicable to all other transactions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Accounts The currency of Iraq is the Iraqi Dinar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at ID 1 = US$3.2169. The official buying and selling rates on December 31, 1991 were US$3.224933 and US$3.208889, respectively, per ID 1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in mar- kets abroad. The Central Bank of Iraq undertakes transactions in the listed currencies only with au- thorized dealers. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Board of Administration of the Central Bank; this authority has been delegated to the governor and his deputy, who act on recommendations submit- ted by an Advisory Committee on Foreign Ex- change. Certain approval authority has been dele- gated to the Depar tment of Foreign Exchange and Banking Supervision of the Central Bank and to licensed dealers. Foreign exchange transactions must take place through a licensed dealer unless otherwise authorized by the governor. Branches of the Rafidain Bank and the Rasheed Bank are licensed dealers. The Ministry of Trade fo rmu- lates import policy and the annual program. Ar- rears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries normally must be made in any of the listed currencies or by drawing on a nonresident account in Iraqi dinars, provided that the funds on the nonresident account were obtained originally through credits in any one of the listed currencies. Payments to and receipts from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. The opening of a nonresident account requires the approval of the exchange control authorities. Nonresident accounts are divided into ordinary nonresident accounts, which arise from transac- tions in respect of current payments, and special nonresident accounts, which arise from transac- tions in respect of capital transfers. Imports and Import Payments Imports of commodities are normally handled by the socialized sector. All private imports are subject to licenses, except imports of materials constituting basic elements for development projects benefiting from the Law for Major Development Projects, No. 157 of 1973 (for old contracts) or from the Law for Major Development Projects, No. 60 of 1985 (for new projects). Under Resolution No. 767 of October 1, 1987, foreign companies implementing development projects in Iraq are exempted from all import duties and domestic taxes accruing from the implementa- tion of these projects, including income taxes due on earnings of their non-Iraqi workers. These ex- emptions apply to new projects that are contracted after the effective date of Resolution No. 767. The Law for Major Development Projects, No. 60 of 1985, ceased to be effective, except that its provi- sions continue to apply to projects that were con- tracted before Resolution No. 767 took effect. In principle, licenses are issued in accordance with an annual import program. Imports of all goods from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of some commodities on a protected list are, in princi- ple, prohibited from all sources. To finance the Export Subsidy Fund, a tax of 0.5 percent is levied on imports of capital goods, and a tax of 0.75 percent is levied on imports of consumer goods. All imports subject to import duty are also subject to a customs surcharge according to the available list of classified goods. The Rafidain Bank or the Rasheed Bank makes exchange available upon presentation of the ex- change control copy of the import license, except in some instances where reference has to be made to the Central Bank. Imports financed by foreign ex- change obtained by nonresident Iraqis are given special import licenses. 243 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 244 IRAQ Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require permission. Exchange is usually granted for educational and medical expenses abroad, freight on exports effected on a c. & f. basis, insurance premiums, royalties, etc. Exchange is not granted to merchants for the insurance abroad of their imports or exports. The Rafidain Bank and the Rasheed Bank are per- mitted to transfer salaries of teachers employed by the Ministry of Higher Education and of scientific researchers and medical doctors in accordance with the terms of their contracts. Certain nonresident private sector workers who have contracts with pub- lic institutions in Iraq are permitted to transfer the amounts provided for in those contracts; those not employed under contracts may transfer abroad a monthly amount of ID 10 for each person who is not insured and ID 20 for each person who is insured and is working in the private sector. Noncontractual workers employed by the Government are entitled to ID 40 a person a month for skilled workers em- ployed in the nationalized sector. Persons under 16 years and over 55 years of age, however, are not allowed to transfer their earnings abroad. The regulations provide, in principle, for a basic exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad on the basis of the classification of foreign countries into two categories, as follows. The basic allowance for travel to a country in the first category is ID 300 a trip for each person 18 years of age or over (ID 150 for persons under 18 years of age) traveling to Arab and socialist countries, Cyprus, Greece, and Turkey. For the second category, which includes all other coun- tries, the basic allowance is ID 500 a trip for each person 18 years of age or over (ID 250 for persons under 18 years of age). The individual exchange allowance for official missions abroad to countries in the first category ranges between ID 30 and ID 60 a person a day depending on status and duration of mission; for countries in the second category, the allowance ranges between ID 40 and ID 75 a day. Students abroad are allocated a fixed amount in Iraqi dinars to be transferred to the country of their residence, except for certain countries (such as In- dia, socialist countries, and North Africa), where students are paid a fixed amount in U.S. dollars. Travelers may take out ID 5 in Iraqi currency notes, which is considered part of the basic travel allowance, and the balance of that allowance in trav- eler's checks. Residents on pilgrimage to Saudi Ara- bia are permitted to transfer the equivalent of ID 250 for personal expenses in addition to all other travel- ing expenses paid to the local travel agent. Half of this allowance is permitted for persons under 18 years. Exchange allowances for pilgrimage are unre- lated to other traveling allowances during the year. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa and exports of certain goods to all other countries are pro- hibited. The Ministry of Trade has authority to pro- hibit the exportation of any commodity when sup- ply falls short of domestic demand. All exports are licensed freely through the General Company for Exhibitions and Trading Services. Exporters of goods manufactured by firms in the public sector (consisting of 13 items) must undertake to repatriate 60 percent of their foreign exchange proceeds through the Rafidain Bank or the Rasheed Bank and to surrender them within two months of shipment. Other exporters may retain their export proceeds in foreign exchange accounts with the commercial banks for three years and use them to pay for im- ports that are licensed. Financial support is granted under an export sub- sidy fund established in 1969 for the purpose of assisting non-oil exports to provide financial incen- tives to eligible exports. The scheme is intended to introduce Iraqi goods abroad, whether from the private or socialist sector, and to improve their competitive position. The financial subsidies are granted upon presentation of the necessary documents. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts in excess of ID 100 from invisibles must be surrendered to a licensed dealer within three months. Travelers may bring in foreign exchange, including currency notes (other than Is- raeli currency), in unlimited amounts, provided that the funds are declared on an exchange control form; amounts not intended to be taken out of the country are exempt from declaration. Travelers may bring in ID 25 in Iraqi notes. Iraqi nationals are allowed to bring in convertible foreign currencies, deposit them with a licensed dealer, and use the funds to purchase goods from duty-free shops. Capital Nonresidents may import capital freely, except from Israel or South Africa, but they must deposit it with the Rafidain Bank or the Rasheed Bank; such deposits may be converted into local currency at the official rate, and repatriation to the country of origin is permitted. Under Resolution No. 1646 of the Rev- olutionary Command Council, enacted in Novem- ber 1980, no foreign (defined as non-Arab) par- ticipation is allowed in the capital of private sector ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ 245 companies, but citizens of Arab states may partici- pate with Iraqis in projects in the industrial, agri- cultural services, and tourism sectors. All transfers of capital abroad by residents, whether Iraqis or foreigners, require exchange control approval. Iraqi nationals, foreigners, and nonresidents may trans- fer foreign exchange to Iraq and deposit it with a licensed dealer in accounts bearing interest rates comparable to the international rates. Balances on these accounts with interest are freely transferable abroad in foreign currencies, provided that the funds were deposited with licensed dealers within three months of transfer. Iraqi nationals resident abroad (or their legal representatives) may with- draw from their nonresident accounts up to ID 20,000 a year in three installments to cover per- sonal expenses inside the country. Arab investors are allowed to transfer capital in a convertible currency through a licensed bank or physical assets that will be used in the enterprises they are planning to establish, provided that used machinery and equipment have at least one half of their productive life left. Investments by Arab na- tionals are encouraged by Arab Investment Law No. 46 of 1988. The law permits (1) Iraqi investors to participate in enterprises in which their capital par- ticipation does not exceed 49 percent, provided that their contribution and profits will be paid in Iraqi dinars and the minimum capital of the enterprise is ID 0.5 million, and (2) Arab investors to transfer annually up to 100 percent of profits to be dis- tributed to them, provided that the profit does not exceed 20 percent of their paid-in capital. Gold Under Resolution No. 801 dated October 10,1987, an Iraqi resident, nonresident, or a foreigner may bring into Iraq, free of customs duty, worked and unworked gold, regardless of its weight, provided that it is declared upon importation. Iraqi residents may take out with them worked gold not exceeding 100 grams a person, subject to declaration; such gold may be brought back on their return to the country. Nonresident Iraqis are allowed to take out with them worked gold that they brought with them for personal use when they entered Iraq. The expor- tation and importation of gold for commercial pur- poses are not permitted. Changes During 1991 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ireland is the Irish Pound. Ireland participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, Ger- many, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portu- gal, Spain, and the United Kingdom in the ex- change rate and intervention mechanism (ERM) of the European Monetary System (EMS).1 In accor- dance with this agreement, Ireland maintains spot exchange rates between the Irish pound and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 2.25 percent (in the case of the Portuguese es- cudo, the pound sterling, and the Spanish peseta, 6 percent) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Central Bank of Ireland stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1991, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates per: Irish Pounds Upper limit Lower limit ] 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 deutsche mark 100 French francs 1,000 Italian lire 100 Netherlands guilders 1,000 Portuguese escudos1 1 pound sterling 100 Spanish pesetas iEffective April 6, 1992. 1.85100 10.00870 38.1825 11.3830 0.510246 33.8868 4.55895 1.16920 0.609772 1.76950 9.56830 36.4964 10.8825 0.487799 32.3939 4.04371 1.03710 0.540858 The participants in the EMS do not maintain ex- change rates for other currencies within fixed limits. On December 31,1991, the official midpoint closing rate for the U.S. dollar was US$1.7463 per £Ir 1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Access to the forward exchange market is regu- lated. Forward cover is permitted for the importa- tion and exportation of goods and services, and forward contracts may either correspond in all as- pects to the underlying commercial transactions, or 1With effect from April 6, 1992, Portugal participates in the ERM of the EMS. be based on projected receipts and payments, con- sistent with the established business pattern. For- ward cover is also permitted for certain financial exposure where contracts will result in accelerating inflows of foreign currency and financial outflows, which can be swapped, through the swap mecha- nism, against inflows of equal amounts. The mini- mum and maximum maturity periods for which forward exchange transactions are permitted are 21 days and 12 months, respectively, except for for- ward purchases of foreign exchange by banks, where up to two years is permitted. The Central Bank intervenes in the forward market intermit- tently. These interventions are primarily intended to influence banks' liquidity positions and not the forward exchange rate. Ireland formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Exchange control is operated by the Central Bank, and was fur ther liberalized, effective Jan- uary 1,1991. The liberalization measures have been aimed at reducing administrative requirements as- sociated with exchange controls in order to expedite transactions and lower associated business costs and at permitting greater access to some of the newer financial investments.2 Much of the authority for approving normal payments is delegated to commercial banks au- thorized for this purpose (authorized dealers). Import licenses, where necessary, are issued by the Depar tment of Indus try and Commerce if the goods are of an industrial na ture, or by the De- pa r tment of Agriculture and Food if they are agri- cultural in character; import licenses are also is- sued by the Depar tment of Tourism and Transport, and in some cases by the Depar tment of Health or the Depar tment of Justice. Import licensing is not used for exchange control pur- poses. Import and export controls are admin- istered by the Revenue Commissioners. 2In October 1991, a fur ther liberalization of exchange controls to be effective from January 1, 1992 was announced. The relaxa- tions would apply to all countries. It was also announced that any exchange control restrictions remaining af ter January 1, 1992 (which mainly relate to residents' ability to hold accounts abroad) would be lifted entirely before the end of 1992. 246 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND 247 Prescription of Currency The administration of Irish exchange control is based on the distinction between entities that reside permanently in Ireland and nonresidents—that is, residents of other countries. The latter comprise two categories: (1) residents of European Com- munity (EC) member countries, and (2) residents of all other countries. Payments may be made in Irish pounds or in any foreign currency. The proceeds of exports must be received in foreign currency or in Irish pounds from an external account. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Irish pounds of nonresidents are designated external accounts. All credits in excess of £Ir 250,000 to external accounts held by non- banks with financial institutions must be reported to the Central Bank, unless the credit is in respect of imports of goods or services into Ireland. There are also limits on maximum balances in external accounts of nonresident banks; balances in excess of £Ir 250,000 must be reported to the Central Bank. External accounts may be credited with payments that are eligible for transfer abroad under general or specific exchange control approval, transfers from other external accounts, payments for any foreign currencies purchased from account holders, the proceeds of Irish currency notes received from abroad in denominations not exceeding £Ir 20, pay- ments from within the country up to £Ir 250 in value, and interest payable on the accounts; they may be debited for transfers to residents, transfers to other external accounts, the cost of any foreign currency sold to account holders, the transfer of any part of account balances to account holders, and bank charges, if applicable. Authorized banks may operate foreign currency accounts in the names of nonresidents in any for- eign currency; these accounts are generally subject to the same requirements as external accounts. Au- thorized banks may also operate foreign currency accounts in the names of residents under specific central bank approval as follows: (1) deposits made with funds converted from Irish pounds must be for fixed terms of at least three months; (2) withdrawals in foreign currency are permitted only when pay- ment is to be made either to an approved agent or to a nonresident for permitted purposes; and (3) checking facilities are not permitted. The De- posit Interest Retention Tax that applied to domestic deposits is also extended to cover foreign currency deposits. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain goods (including textiles, steel, footwear, and ceramic products) originating in cer- tain non-EC countries are subject to either quantita- tive restrictions or surveillance measures. Imports from non-EC countries of products cov- ered by the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) of the EC may be subject to various charges, such as levies and compensatory monetary amounts under that pol- icy, and to duties under the common customs tariff. For reasons of national policy, imports of certain goods (for example, specified drugs, explosives, and firearms and ammunition) are prohibited with- out special licenses. Prior permission from the Central Bank is re- quired for purchases of goods abroad or for sales abroad if payment is not being made in an approved manner. For permitted imports, authority to make payments is delegated to authorized dealers. Payments for Invisibles Payments to nonresidents require verification. Approval to make payments for most invisibles is delegated to the authorized banks; for other invis- ibles, it is given by the Central Bank. Authorized dealers are delegated authority to sell foreign exchange in excess of the basic allowance for all types of travel, equivalent to £Ir 1,200, with docu- mentary evidence that the foreign exchange is for genuine travel purposes. Not more than £Ir 1,200 of an allowance of foreign currency may be issued in the form of currency notes. Residents may also take with them up to £Ir 150 in Irish currency notes. Nonresidents may take with them any foreign cur- rency notes that they brought into Ireland. Exports and Export Proceeds A system of export licensing is applied to a lim- ited range of goods. Exporters of goods must obtain payment for the goods within six months of ship- ment if their value exceeds £Ir 250. When payment is received in foreign currencies, the exchange must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be re- patriated without delay, and if foreign currencies are received, they must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer, or permission for their retention must be obtained. Any foreign currency held by a person after his return from a trip abroad may be retained for subsequent travel purposes for three months from the date of issue. There are no limita- tions on the importation of Irish or foreign bank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 248 IRELAND notes, but prior central bank approval must be ob- tained to credit Irish bank notes in denominations exceeding £Ir 20 to external accounts. Capital Exchange control approval is required for all transfers of capital to nonresidents. Authority to make certain payments has been delegated to au- thorized dealers; other payments require central bank approval. There are no restrictions on asset transfers for Irish residents taking up permanent residence abroad. The inflow of capital is not restricted, but inward direct investment of over £Ir 1 million requires ex- change control verification. The purchase of nonur- ban land by foreign nationals in some cases requires approval from the Land Commission. Incoming capital received in foreign currencies must be of- fered for sale to an authorized dealer. There is no restriction on purchases of personal property by residents for personal use outside the EC. Transfers by residents to residents of non-EC countries are not restricted, although prior refer- ence to the Central Bank is required for transfers exceeding £Ir 20,000 for statistical purposes. The forward currency transactions of commercial banks are subject to limits, which vary from bank to bank, depending on the institution's level of par- ticipation in the foreign exchange market. Residents are, however, required to repatriate the proceeds from any subsequent sale of these se- curities, with the exception that sale proceeds may be held in foreign currency for six months if the intention is to reinvest in other approved foreign securities. Residents are permitted to purchase with domestic currency foreign UCITS (Undertaking for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities), which are reg- istered under the EC UCITS Coordination Directive, to purchase foreign securities with an original matu- rity of less than two years with domestic currency up to a maximum limit of £Ir 10,000 an individual and up to a total of £Ir 50 million during 1991, and to purchase futures and options in foreign securities through an approved agent for hedging purposes. All forms of lending to nonresidents are permitted, provided that the maturity is longer than five years. Sales of existing holdings of securities issued by the EC, the European Investment Bank, the Euro- pean Coal and Steel Community (ECSC), and the European Atomic Energy Community (EURATOM) are not restricted. Direct investment abroad requires prior approval. Up to 50 percent of the cost of approved outward investments in non-EC countries may be financed by conversion of Irish pounds into foreign exchange and the balance through foreign borrowing. Use of Irish pounds is allowed, however, for all approved new direct investments by Irish residents in EC member countries. Purchases by nonresidents of Irish registered se- curities must be funded with foreign currency or Irish pounds from an external account or the sale proceeds of other Irish securities. Remittances of cash gifts or personal loans are normally permitted up to £Ir 20,000 a donor a calen- dar year, and financial institutions are allowed to transfer up to this amount without prior reference to the Central Bank. Applications by Irish residents to make cash gifts to EC residents in excess of the normal allowance are approved. Foreign currency may be borrowed by residents for any purpose. The approval of the Central Bank must be obtained when borrowing in excess of £Ir 1 million is not for the financing of trade. Lending of Irish currency to nonresidents is not normally per- mitted, except to the extent that the nonresidents are parties to commercial transactions with resi- dents or are investing directly in Ireland. Overdraft facilities may be provided by the banks to members of diplomatic and consular missions in Ireland. Pro- vided that the company is not a channel for portfolio investment, a subsidiary or branch of a company controlled directly by nonresident interests may ob- tain from Irish banks all the financing it requires for its operation in Ireland. Nonresident banks are not permitted to hold bal- ances in excess of £Ir 250,000 with resident financial institutions. For nonresidents who are not banks, the balance that may be maintained is not subject to a limit, but individual credits in excess of £Ir 250,000 require prior approval from the Central Bank. Irish financial institutions are, however, permitted to ac- cept deposits in Irish pounds without limit, from both bank and nonbank nonresidents without prior reference to the Central Bank if the deposits carry fixed terms with maturities of at least three months. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, borrow, sell, or lend gold coins in Ireland. Dealings in gold bullion are restricted, and no dealings take place in Ireland. In accordance with a regulation of the EC Council dated October 27,1986, Ireland does not permit the free circulation of gold coins minted after 1960 that originated in the Republic of South Africa. Al- though there are no other import restrictions, resi- dents require specific exchange control permission to purchase gold coins or bullion outside Ireland. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND 249 Specific exchange control permission is also re- quired for the exportation of gold coins and bullion outside Ireland. Specific permission to buy or ex- port gold coins or bullion is normally given only for bona fide numismatic or industrial purposes. Residents of Ireland are not permitted to hold gold abroad. Changes During 1991 Resident and Nonresident Accounts June 1. Resident individuals were permitted to operate personal foreign currency accounts with financial institutions in Ireland, subject to the fol- lowing conditions: (1) deposits made with funds converted from Irish pounds must be for fixed terms of at least three months; (2) withdrawals in foreign currency would be permitted only when payment is to be made either to an approved agent or to a nonresident for permitted purposes; and (3) checking facilities would not be permitted. The Deposit Interest Retention Tax that applied to do- mestic deposits was also extended to cover foreign currency deposits. Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EC-wide basis during 1991, page 557.) Capital January 1. A number of regulations pertaining to transactions with non-EC residents were relaxed: (1) the limit on outward direct investment that may be made by conversion of Irish pounds into foreign exchange was increased from 25 percent to 50 per- cent of total investment; (2) the upper limit of £Ir 50,000 on purchases of personal property for personal use outside the EC was removed; and (3) all restrictions on the amount of transfers that may be made to residents of non-EC countries were removed, although prior reference to the Central Bank was required for transfers exceeding £Ir 20,000, for statistical purposes. Investments by residents in foreign securities were liberalized as follows: (1) residents would be permitted to purchase with domestic currency for- eign UCITS (Undertaking for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities), which are registered un- der the EC UCITS Coordination Directive; (2) resi- dent persons would be permitted to purchase for- eign securities with an original maturity of less than two years with domestic currency up to a maximum limit of £Ir 10,000 an individual and up to a total of £Ir 50 million during 1991; and (3) resident persons would be permitted to purchase futures and options in foreign securities through an approved agent for hedging purposes. All forms of lending to nonresi- dents were permitted, provided that the maturity is longer than five years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Israel is the New Sheqel (plural Sheqalim), the external value of which is linked to a basket consisting of the following five major curren- cies: the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Jap- anese yen, the pound sterling, and the U.S. dollar. Before 1989, the authorities did not maintain mar- gins in respect of exchange transactions; with effect from January 3, 1989, actual daily rates have been established by the Bank of Israel within margins of 3 percent around a midpoint rate fixed in relation to the basket. These margins were increased to 5 per- cent on March 1,1990. Since December 17,1991, the midpoint rate itself has been adjusted daily in rela- tion to the basket; a daily adjustment rate of 0.0236 percent was set so as to give an annual de- valuation rate of 9 percent. On December 31, 1991, the midpoint exchange rate at noon of the new sheqel in terms of the U.S. dollar was NIS 2.283 per US$1. Authorized banks are permitted to deal in foreign exchange. A tax of 4.0 percent is levied on sales of foreign exchange for purposes of payment for outgoing tourism services (see section on Pay- ments for Invisibles below). An exchange rate insur- ance scheme covering export receipts is in operation (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds below). Forward exchange transactions between foreign currencies are permitted. Purchases and sales of currency options issued by the authorized dealers are permitted, provided that they are intended to cover exchange rate risk arising from authorized trade and capital transactions and are conducted through the authorized dealers. Administration of Control Exchange control is the responsibility of the Con- troller of Foreign. Exchange; it is administered by the Bank of Israel, in cooperation with other govern- ment agencies, and is carried out through autho- rized banks. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected in the currency and manner prescribed by the exchange control authorities. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents' funds are held either in foreign currency accounts or in local currency accounts. The opening of nonresident foreign currency accounts does not require prior approval. The holder may freely effect transfers from his foreign currency ac- count. He may also convert funds held on the ac- count into local currency at the market rate of exchange. There are no restrictions on the opening by a nonresident of a local currency account; such funds may be used locally in permitted transactions, in- cluding transfers between nonresidents. The sales proceeds of real estate and other investments may be transferred abroad in their entirety if the original investment was made through an authorized dealer with foreign currency or State of Israel Develop- ment Loan bonds. Resident Accounts in Foreign Currency There are six main types of foreign currency ac- counts that Israeli residents may hold: (1) Deposit accounts of certain residents (mostly immigrants) that are treated as nonresident ac- counts. Certain regulations stipulate the types of funds that may be deposited in these accounts. (2) Foreign currency deposit accounts (PAMAH). These accounts may be held by Israeli resident busi- ness enterprises, insurance companies, and non- profit organizations. Funds permitted to be depos- ited in these accounts are mostly proceeds from exports of goods and services and from sales of assets to nonresidents received during the recip- ient's normal course of business. The liquidity re- quirements are 8 percent for a current account and 4 percent for a time deposit account. (3) Resident deposit account (PATAM). These ac- counts are either a current or a one-year time de- posit account. Certain types of funds received di- rectly from abroad may be deposited in these accounts. The liquidity requirement is 100 percent. By August 15, 1990, the previous PATAM accounts were consolidated with these accounts. (4) Resident transitory deposit accounts. Foreign currency that has been received legally by Israeli residents may be kept in these accounts for up to 14 days. Within this period, funds may be used for authorized purposes or converted into domestic currency. (5) Resident temporary deposit accounts. Foreign currency may be purchased and kept in these ac- counts for up to 30 days in advance of expected 250 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL 251 payments for authorized transactions. (Alter- natively, the foreign currency may be purchased forward from an authorized bank.) (6) Resident restitution deposit accounts. These accounts may be held only by a recipient of restitu- tion payments or certain disability pensions. These accounts may be in the form of a demand or a time deposit account in convertible currencies kept at an authorized bank. The liquidity requirement on De- cember 31, 1991 was 88 percent (it has been in- creased at a rate of 1 percentage point a month since November 1991). Funds deposited in these accounts are tax free and can be used up to a limit of $1,800 as additional travel exchange allocation. In addition, a resident may open a deposit ac- count linked to a foreign currency (PATZAM) with a maturity period of not less than three months. Imports and Import Payments With the exception of agricultural products, im- ports are free of licensing and administrative or quantitative restrictions. A special regime applies to imports from countries that restrict or prohibit im- ports from Israel. The importation of soybeans and wheat, which was once under government procure- ment, has been liberalized, and any food- processing plant can import them directly. At pres- ent, only the importation of meat remains subject to government procurement. Foreign exchange to pay for authorized imports is granted automatically by the banks upon presenta- tion of relevant documents (import documents, bills of lading, and letters of credit). Advance payments for imports are permitted up to 35 percent or $50,000, whichever is higher. Foreign exchange is also provided automatically for repayment of sup- pliers' credits. Importers are allowed to use foreign currency proceeds of loans obtained abroad directly for import payments, without first depositing the funds with an authorized Israeli bank. A value-added tax of 18 percent is levied on al- most all imported and domestically produced goods, other than fresh fruits and vegetables. A 2 percent duty is levied on imports from any origin. Payments for Invisibles Foreign exchange for payments abroad on ac- count of invisibles is provided automatically up to prescribed limits upon proof of the nature of the transaction. The exchange allowance for tourist travel is the equivalent of $3,000 a person for each journey, regardless of age. The business travel al- lowance is $200 a day, up to a maximum of $5,000 a trip (in addition to the standard allowance of $3,000). The allowance can be taken out in the form of cash, traveler's checks, banker's checks, or credit cards. Foreign exchange use by means of credit cards is included in the travel allowance. Resident travelers may take out Israeli bank notes not exceed- ing the equivalent of $200 a person a trip. Israeli residents over 2 years of age traveling abroad are subject to a travel tax of NIS 250 on departure. (One half of the standard rate remains in effect for travel to Romania, and travel to Egypt remains exempt from tax.) Payments for hotel accommodation, land transport, and other related services under foreign package tours, along with other imports of services, are subject to an 18 percent value-added tax. Resi- dents may make support or gift remittances abroad up to $2,000 a year. The maximum exchange al- lowance for students studying at institutions of higher education abroad is $1,000 a month. Resi- dents are permitted to make credit card payments abroad, up to $1,500 a year. Nonresident travelers leaving Israel are permitted to take out Israeli bank notes up to the equivalent of $100, and to repurchase through an authorized dealer, at the port of departure, foreign currency up to the equivalent of $500. Nonresidents may pur- chase foreign currency, on presentation of docu- ments showing previous conversion of foreign cur- rency into Israeli currency, with a limit for each visit of $5,000 for a person over 18 years of age and of $2,000 for a person under 18 years (a temporary leave of less than two weeks during the visit does not affect the person's right). Commercial banks are authorized to sell abroad unlimited amounts of Is- raeli currency. A resident going abroad for medical treatment who requires hospitalization is permitted to pay up to the equivalent of $30,000 as repayment. While abroad, he is permitted to pay the remainder of the fee against bills. Remittances of earnings by foreign workers are not restricted. Remittances of profits/ dividends from foreign direct investment are per- mitted after payments of local income tax. Foreign exchange sales for payments for tourism services are subject to a tax of 4.0 percent. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports do not require licenses, although for some commodities export licensing is retained for sanitary control. Exports of oil and defense equip- ment to (and signing of defense contracts with) South Africa are prohibited. Export proceeds must be received within 12 months of the date of export in foreign currencies, and must be surrendered or held in a PATAM or a PAMAH account. However, exporters may retain in a bank deposit abroad an ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 252 ISRAEL amount equivalent to 10 percent of their turnover in the preceding year. For inputs directly imported by an exporter, there is a system of rebates of customs duties, wharf charges, and other related charges. The Israel Foreign Trade Risks Insurance Com- pany (IFTRIC) provides an export insurance facility to cover risk of losses that might occur when the rate of devaluation lags behind the rate of inflation. The scheme covers exporters' value added. In return for a premium based on the value added of his exports, an exporter receives cover against any real apprecia- tion of the new sheqel in relation to the basket of currencies. The premium rate is established on the basis of average expected inflation in the partner countries. Exporters would receive payments from the IFTRIC if the real depreciation were less than expected, whereas they would make payments to the IFTRIC if it were greater. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from invisibles exceeding $3,000 must, in general, be surrendered to an au- thorized dealer, or kept in foreign exchange in PATAM or PAMAH accounts. Any resident is free to accept specified convertible currencies from tourists in payment for customary tourist services and com- modities other than commercial exports, securities, and real estate. For 30 years after entering Israel, new immigrants are exempt from the requirement to surrender their foreign exchange to authorized dealers, and they may hold these foreign currencies freely with autho- rized banks in Israel or with banks abroad. There is no limit on the amount of Israeli bank notes or foreign currency that may be brought in by travelers. Capital Subject to approval, foreign exchange brought into Israel for the purpose of investment in the form of loan and equity capital may be granted preferen- tial treatment in accordance with the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investment, which grants a limited withholding tax of 25 percent on income resulting from these investments. Ap- provals granted under the law are classified as "ap- proved enterprises," "approved investments," or "approved loans." Approved enterprise status is granted to economically viable enterprises (1) in the fields of industry, tourism, and agriculture (a sepa- rate law applies to agriculture); (2) established in priority areas; or (3) contributing to improvements in the balance of payments. Approved investment or approved loan status may be granted to any en- terprise in the above-mentioned sectors; however, loans may only be shareholders' loans. The period of the loan must not be less than seven years, and the rate of interest must not be more than 8 percent a year. Direct foreign borrowing by nonbank resi- dents is permitted. Proceeds accruing from the repatriation or liqui- dation of foreign assets are treated in the same way as other proceeds in foreign currency. Israeli mutual trust funds are permitted to invest abroad up to 10 percent of their portfolio of financial assets (up to 50 percent in the case of funds specializing in for- eign currency investments). Residents are not nor- mally permitted to retain abroad real estate, money, securities, or income from these assets. Residents may not buy foreign securities abroad. Resident exporters and airline and shipping companies may maintain foreign bank accounts. New immigrants may retain their foreign assets for 30 years. Trans- fers abroad of a capital nature by residents other than new immigrants require a special permit from the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Such permits are granted normally up to 40 percent of own funds to any incorporated Israeli firm that is contemplat- ing investment abroad. Emigrants are permitted to transfer their Israeli assets abroad up to the equiv- alent of $4,000 a year. Nonresidents are permitted to purchase real es- tate and shares in Israel. They are also permitted to buy debentures of nonbanking firms that are traded on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. In order to repatri- ate the principal or profits on these investments, nonresidents must prove to an authorized dealer that they were purchased with foreign currency through an authorized dealer. Direct loans in any form from Israeli residents to nonresidents are sub- ject to licensing. Domestic banks are permitted to lend to nonresidents without restriction. Gold Gold bullion for industry may be imported by an importer holding an import license. Gold bullion and coins for investment, or certificates conferring a right to gold bullion, must be held in a gold custody account with an authorized dealer; beginning Jan- uary 16,1984, residents have not been permitted to buy gold bullion or coins for investment purposes. The following bullion coins are at present in- cluded in the list of gold coins for investment: (1) Krugerrand of South Africa; (2) 50 dollar Maple Leafs of Canada; (3) 50 pesos of Mexico; (4) 100 corona and 4 dukat coins of Austria; (5) sovereigns of Great Britain; (6) 10 dollar and 20 dollar Liberty coins of the United States; and (7) 20 franc Napoleon coins of France. Other gold coins and medallions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL 253 may be bought, sold, or held by an Israeli resident without restriction. These coins may be imported and exported in the same manner as other goods. Imports of gold included in the above categories are subject to a value-added tax of 18 percent. Changes During 1991 Nonresident Accounts May 1. The regulations governing the use of cer- tain funds in FATAH foreign currency deposits with Israeli banks were simplified. Imports and Import Payments September 1. The import regime applicable to im- ports from countries with which Israel does not have free trade agreements was modified. Discre- tionary import licensing of industrial goods was replaced with an automatic licensing procedure. A new transitional tariff structure was introduced, with ad valorem rates of 30 percent for most prod- ucts and the highest rate of 75 percent. The rates would be reduced annually over five years in a lin- ear fashion to maximum rates of 8 percent on raw materials and 12 percent on finished goods. Payments for Invisibles May 1. Nonresidents were allowed to buy back foreign currency converted into new sheqalim dur- ing a visit to Israel, provided that they do not leave the country temporarily for more than two weeks. May 1. External loans were allowed to be prepaid at any time after six months. Authorized foreign exchange dealers were permitted to offer to their clients all types of services and instruments in- tended to provide protection from risks arising from shifts in exchange or interest rates or in prices of commodities or foreign securities. May 12. Inward transfers of up to $2,000 a person visiting the occupied territories were fully liber- alized; transfers exceeding this amount must be declared. November 7. The limit up to which companies are permitted to invest directly abroad —through share capital, equity holders' loans, guarantees, and real estate—was raised to 40 percent from 20 percent of their equity. Permits would continue to be granted on a case-by-case basis. November 28. The limit for an Israeli resident, while in Israel, to pay for imports with credit cards was increased to $1,500 from $500 a year. Changes During 1992 Capital January 30. Restrictions were relaxed on (1) the convertibility of proceeds from sales of bonds and mutual funds originally purchased with foreign currency; (2) nonresidents' eligibility to hold non- resident local currency deposits convertible at Is- raeli banks; and (3) nonresidents' borrowing in local currency from banks in Israel against foreign cur- rency collateral. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Italy is the Italian Lira. Italy partici- pates with Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Ire- land, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, and the United Kingdom in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism (ERM) of the European Mon- etary System (EMS).1 In accordance with this agree- ment, Italy maintains spot exchange rates between the Italian lira and the currencies of the other partici- pants within margins of 2.25 percent (in the case of the Portuguese escudo, the pound sterling, and the Spanish peseta, 6 percent) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). On December 31,1991, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates per: Italian Lire Upper limit Lower limit 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 deutsche mark 100 French francs 1 Irish pound 100 Netherlands guilders 1,000 Portuguese escudos1 1 pound sterling 100 Spanish pesetas iEffective April 6, 1992. 3,710.20 20,062.0 76,540.0 22,817.0 2,050.03 67,912.0 9,138.0 2,343.62 1,222.30 3,546.90 19,179.0 73,257.0 21,813.0 1,959.84 64,928.0 8,105.0 2,078.79 1,084.10 The agreement implies that the Bank of Italy (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the curren- cies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. The partici- pants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper functioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the intervention currencies being each other's, the ECU, and the U.S. dollar. Rates for 20 foreign currencies2 are quoted daily. On December 31, 1991, the rate for the U.S. dollar !With effect from April 6, 1992, Portugal participates in the ERM of the EMS. 2Currencies quoted are Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, ECUs, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. was Lit 1,151.055 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Premiums and discounts in the forward exchange market are normally left to the interplay of market forces. Authorized banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any cur- rency. Residents may carry out spot and forward foreign exchange operations and transact currency options either with authorized banks or with for- eign counterparts. Italy formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Residents are allowed to conduct foreign exchange transactions freely, with settlements to be effected either through authorized intermediaries (the Bank of Italy, authorized banks, the Postal Administration) or directly, that is, by drawing on external accounts, through material delivery of means of payment in Italy or abroad, or by offsetting debts and credits vis- a-vis other residents or nonresidents. Operators and authorized intermediaries must, for statistical purposes, transmit data to the Italian Foreign Exchange Office (Ufficio Italiano dei Cambi (UIC)) on their foreign transactions exceeding the equivalent of Lit 20 million by filling out a Com- unicazione valutaria statistica (foreign exchange sta- tistical return). Within the limits and according to the procedures provided for by the EC safeguard clauses, the Government may impose restrictions on foreign transactions on a temporary basis to con- tain short-term pressures on the balance of pay- ments or instability in the foreign exchange market. However, the expiration dates for all such measures would be specified at the time of the announcement of the measure and cannot exceed six months. Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries are normally made in quoted currencies or in lire on foreign accounts. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may maintain accounts with autho- rized banks in lire and in foreign exchange, which may be freely debited and credited upon the holder's request. 254 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY 255 Imports and Import Payments Imports are governed by Decree No. 313 of July 14,1990 and Decree No. 68 of October 30,1990, both of which entered into effect on November 20, 1990. The import regulations vary with the country of origin. Countries are grouped into three major areas: Zone A, which is subdivided into subzones A/1 (European Community (EC) countries), A/2 (overseas countries and territories, member coun- tries of the European Free Trade Association (EFTA), and other countries associated with the EC), and A/3 (third countries); Zone B, which com- prises most of the Eastern European countries, China, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea; and Zone C (Japan). The import control pro- cedures distinguish between goods that may be freely imported without quantitative restrictions and goods that require a special license. Import liberalization is virtually complete for subzones A/1 and A/2, and very few quantitative restrictions re- main for subzone A/3 and for some countries of Zones B and C. Imports from non-EC countries of most products covered by the Common Agri- cultural Policy (CAP) of the EC are subject to vari- able import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports. Common EC regulations are also applied to imports of most other agricultural and livestock products from non-EC countries. Payments for imports are not regulated. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. Ex- ports of domestic and foreign bank notes by resi- dents across the border are free of restrictions up to Lit 20 million or its equivalent. Exports exceeding this amount must be made through authorized in- termediaries for recording and fiscal monitoring purposes and according to the regulations on money laundering. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are governed by Decree No. 313 of July 14, 1990 and by Decree No. 68 of October 30, 1990, both of which entered into effect on Novem- ber 20, 1990. Exports to any country of products listed in Decree No. 68 require export licenses; other exports do not require authorization. imports exceeding this amount must be made through authorized intermediaries for recording and fiscal monitoring purposes. Capital Residents are free to undertake financial transac- tions, including direct investments and purchases and sales of any foreign securities, real estate in- vestments, and loans. Residents may also freely hold foreign exchange and lire in any form in Italy and abroad. Residents cannot enter or leave the country with bearer securities worth more than Lit 20 million. They are allowed to import or export across the border nonbearer securities worth more than Lit 20 million, provided that they deposit a declaration with the customs authority. Nonresi- dents must declare to customs cash and bearer se- curities worth more than Lit 20 million they bring in if they intend to re-export them. The above limits do not apply to transfers effected by banks when they act as senders or beneficiaries. However, banks are also obliged to declare transfers by filling out a special customs form. Foreign investments in Italy of any kind, includ- ing both direct and portfolio investment and the purchase of real estate, are not restricted, and no restrictions are applied to their repatriation. Gold The purchase and sale of gold abroad are legally reserved for the monetary authorities. Residents may purchase and import unrefined gold under ministerial license for industrial purposes. Loans for the importation of gold are freely assumable. The exportation of unrefined gold is subject to licensing by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. The importation and exportation of gold coins, including coins that are legal tender in a foreign country, are free. Im- ports of unrefined gold are not subject to the value- added tax, whereas imports of gold coins are subject to a value-added tax at 19 percent. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement May 12. The reserve requirement on the increase in net foreign currency deposits by residents was abolished. Proceeds from Invisibles Imports and Import Payments There are no limitations on receipts from current invisibles. Imports of domestic and foreign bank notes by residents across the border are free of restrictions up to Lit 20 million or its equivalent; During the year, the EC Commission authorized Italy to exclude six categories of products from the application of Article 115 (of the Rome Treaty). The products involved were cotton fabrics from China, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 256 ITALY India, the Republic of Korea, and Pakistan; syn- thetic fabrics from Pakistan; bananas from outside the ACP (African, Caribbean, and Pacific States); and motorcycles, sewing machines, and auto- mobiles from Japan. The above products remained under Article 115 until the end of 1991, with the exception of sewing machines, for which the EC did not renew authorization following its expiration on May 31, 1991. (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EC-wide basis during 1991, page 557.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Jamaica is the Jamaica Dollar. Following the liberalization of the foreign exchange market, effective September 25, 1991, the exchange rate of the Jamaica dollar has been determined on the basis of underlying demand and supply condi- tions in the exchange market. No buying or selling margins are prescribed by the Bank of Jamaica. On December 31, 1991, the average spot buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were J$21.42 per US$1 and J$21.57 per US$1, respectively. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of for- eign exchange. The foreign exchange market is operated by the commercial banks, other authorized dealers, and the Bank of Jamaica. The commercial banks buy and sell for their own account. Foreign exchange bu- reaus function as points of collection, and they are required to sell all the foreign exchange they pur- chase to the commercial banks and other authorized dealers. Proceeds from official loans and divest- ment of government assets and taxes on the bauxite sector are sold directly to the Bank of Jamaica. While there is no restriction on transactions in any cur- rency, the principal foreign currencies accepted in the exchange market are the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, the pound sterling, and the U.S. dollar (trade in other currencies is optional and negotiable between participating banks). While the Bank of Jamaica is primarily responsi- ble for payments of obligations on government im- ports of goods and services and official debt, the public entities are free to conduct their own foreign exchange transactions. Since the amounts sold di- rectly to the Bank of Jamaica from the sources indi- cated above are insufficient to meet the payments to be effected by it, the Bank of Jamaica purchases its additional requirement from the foreign exchange market at the prevailing rate. All private sector payments are transacted through the commercial banking system and other authorized dealers. The commercial banks make payments for imports against documentation pre- viously required from importers. The commercial banks also handle most service payments. On November 1, 1990, the Bank of Jamaica, in consultation with the other central banks in the CARICOM, suspended clearing arrangements within the framework of the CARICOM. The Bank of Jamaica no longer intervenes in CARICOM private sector com- mercial transactions; settlements for such transac- tions are effected by the commercial banking sector in convertible currencies. Since September 25, 1991, the forward market is no longer subject to regulations issued by the Bank of Jamaica. The forward market for foreign ex- change is operated by the commercial banks and other authorized dealers at rates negotiated with their customers. All proceeds, except those that must be surrendered directly to the Bank of Ja- maica, may be sold on the forward exchange market. While the Bank of Jamaica no longer regulates the forward market, there is an understanding that it maintains a combined long position on spot and forward contracts equivalent to 20 percent of the average daily purchases for each bank over a spec- ified period. Equally, amounts in excess of the pre- scribed long position are offered for sale to another commercial bank or to the Bank of Jamaica by noon of the following day. There is also an implied limit on the short position on forward contracts equiv- alent to 10 percent of the average daily forward purchases for each bank over a specified period. The Bank of Jamaica reserves the right to participate in the forward market. Jamaica formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 22, 1963. Administration of Control The Bank of Jamaica administers exchange con- trol on behalf of the Minister of Finance, subject to certain limitations in respect of which the approval of the Minister is required. The commercial banks are designated as authorized dealers. The eligibility of financial institutions to apply to become autho- rized dealers has been broadened to include mer- chant banks, building societies, and foreign ex- change bureaus. Since April 16, 1985, import licenses have been required only for pharmaceutical products and items potentially harmful to public health or se- curity. Import licenses, when required, are issued by the Trade Administrator, who is responsible to the Minister of Industry and Commerce. Since June 1991, motor vehicles are no longer licensed, but a permit is required for government statistical purposes. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. 257 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 258 JAMAICA Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries may be made by credit- ing Jamaica dollars to an external account or a for- eign currency account.1 Receipts from all countries must be received by debit of an external account or in any foreign currency. External and Blocked Accounts The commercial banks are empowered to open external accounts in Jamaica dollars for residents and nonresidents. Funds on these accounts may be transferred freely between residents and nonresi- dents. External accounts may be credited with pay- ments by residents of Jamaica, with transfers from other external accounts, and with the proceeds from the sale to an authorized dealer of gold or foreign currencies. They may be debited for pay- ments to residents of Jamaica, for transfers to other external accounts, and for the purchase of foreign currencies. Before September 25, 1991, accounts that were credited mainly by proceeds of sales of properties owned by migrants and not placed at the free dis- posal of nonresidents of Jamaica (including capital gains from the sale of undeveloped land and pro- ceeds from the sale of emigrants' real estate and financial assets) were designated as blocked ac- counts. Nonresidents may use blocked funds for local expenditure while they are in Jamaica and for investment in Jamaica dollar securities, local mort- gages, or other investments approved by the Bank of Jamaica. Applications for the release of funds in blocked accounts in excess of J$5,000 a calendar year, for use in Jamaica by the nonresident owner, must be referred to the Bank of Jamaica. Following the liberalization of the foreign exchange market, no new blocked accounts have been allowed to be opened, and a timetable has been established for the phasing out of existing accounts. Resident and Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts Since September 25, 1991, residents and nonresi- dents have been allowed to maintain foreign cur- rency accounts locally or abroad without restriction. These accounts are subject to the ordinary tax laws of Jamaica and the foreign country. Before the new legislation was introduced, resi- dents and nonresidents could maintain foreign ex- change "A" accounts, credited with foreign ex- 1AII currencies other than the Jamaica dollar are considered foreign currencies. All foreign currencies have been designated as specified currencies. change not earned from exports of goods and ser- vices. Since September 25, 1991, new "A" accounts have not been allowed to be opened by residents, and existing account holders have been prohibited from making further deposits to these accounts. Balances in these accounts, however, continue to enjoy benefits of the account, that is, interest earned on deposits is tax free. Imports and Import Payments Imports from, or originating in, South Africa and Haiti are prohibited. Import licenses are required for pharmaceutical products and items that endan- ger public health or security. Otherwise, goods may be imported freely without license. Payments for imports may be made by commercial banks without reference to the Bank of Jamaica. Imports are subject to customs ta r i f fs in com- pliance with the Common External Tariff (CET) Ar- rangement of the CARICOM. Stamp duties are levied on the c . i .f. value of imports plus any customs tar- iffs (excluding imports from the CARICOM area). The general structure of taxes on foreign trade is as follows: (1) for capital goods, the total of customs tariffs and stamp duty is set at 20 percent, unless customs tariffs are above 20 percent under the CET, in which case the full duty rate applies; (2) raw materials are subject to a maximum combined customs tariff and stamp duty rate of 10 percent; (3) consumer goods are subject to a maximum com- bined customs tariff and stamp duty rate of 60 per- cent, unless the customs tariff rate is above 60 per- cent under the CET, in which case the full customs tariff rate applies. Only a few products are subject to a customs tariff rate of more than 60 percent. Some agricultural products are subject to a stamp duty at a rate of up to 95 percent. Exports and Export Proceeds All goods may be exported to any country that is not on the prohibited list.2 However, specific licenses are required for the exportation of certain agricultural products, ammunition, explosives, firearms, antique furniture, ready-made garments, gold bullion, min- eral and metal ores, and antique paintings. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Commercial banks and other authorized dealers are authorized to provide foreign exchange for most 2This list comprises Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Haiti, Hungary, Poland, Romania, South Africa, and the former U.S.S.R. Exports to these countries require a specific license. In practice, no licenses are issued for exports to Haiti and South Africa. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA 259 service transactions, including business and other travel, insurance, commissions, private interest payments, medical expenses, foreign exchange re- funds, cash gifts, pensions, and miscellaneous pay- ments, such as registration and subscription fees. All interest and dividends payable to nonresident investors are approved, net of taxes, without restric- tion, except for the repatriation of profits during the first three years under the debt-equity conversion program. Non-Jamaicans working in Jamaica under a work permit are allowed to remit abroad 30 percent of their net salary during the period of their contract and their accumulated assets at the end of the con- tract period. All proceeds from invisibles may be transacted in the foreign exchange market without restriction. Capital As of September 25, 1991, all capital flows (both inflows and outflows) became free of restrictions, except that domestic financial institutions (such as life insurance companies, commercial banks, trust companies, finance houses, building societies, unit trusts, pension funds, credit unions, and other or- ganizations that are repositories for domestic finan- cial savings) are required to match their Jamaica dollar liabilities to their clients with Jamaica dollar assets. Domestic bank credit to nonresidents and to nonresident-controlled companies is subject to se- lective credit controls; for this purpose, firms are considered to be nonresident-controlled when the controlling interest is held beneficially, either di- rectly or indirectly, by persons resident outside the CARICOM area. Such lending is subject to approval from the Bank of Jamaica. In July 1987, a debt-equity program was intro- duced for the conversion of certain commercial bank debts into equity investments in approved public and private sector entities. Under this program, profit repatriation is prohibited for three years, and capital repatriation is also prohibited for three years for investments in priority sectors, and for seven years for investments in other qualified sectors. Gold Commemorative gold coins in denominations of J$20, J$100, and J$250 are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Jamaica for numismatic purposes. With this ex- ception, residents, other than the monetary au- thorities and authorized industrial users, are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and ex- ports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary au- thorities and industrial users. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement April 8. Foreign exchange purchases by the Bank of Jamaica began to be effected at each commercial bank's weighted average purchase rate plus a spread of J$0.03 per U.S. dollar, rather than at the weighted average of all the banks. May 13. The rate of commercial banks' sur- render requirement of foreign exchange to the Bank of Jamaica was reduced to 40 percent f rom 50 percent. September 25. The exchange rate of the Jamaica dollar began to be determined on the basis of under- lying demand and supply conditions in the ex- change market, and the Bank of Jamaica ceased to prescribe buying or selling margins. The holding of foreign exchange by residents in Jamaica and abroad and the holding of foreign exchange claims of residents and nonresidents on the domestic banking system was permitted. All institutions trad ing in foreign exchange were required to be authorized dealers. The eligi- bility of financial institutions to apply to become authorized dealers was broadened to include mer- chant banks, building societies, and foreign ex- change bureaus. External and Blocked Accounts September 25. The opening of nonresident external accounts in Jamaica dollars would no longer require the specific approval of the Bank of Jamaica. Resident and Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts September 25. Residents and nonresidents were allowed to maintain foreign currency accounts with the domestic banking system or abroad. All balances held in ''A" accounts by residents as of September 20, 1991 would continue to be eligible for privileges under the account, namely, tax-free interest and freedom to use the funds for what- ever purpose. Residents, however, were pro- hibited f rom opening new "A" accounts or f rom making new deposits in such accounts. Residents and nonresidents continued to be allowed to hold "B" accounts. However, resident accounts were restricted to certificates of deposit with a mini- mum ma tu r i ty of one year. Withdrawal before the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 260 JAMAICA end of the one-year period would nullify the tax- free status. However, residents are f ree to hold foreign exchange in any other form or any other account. The requirement that all payments from abroad to Jamaican hoteliers must be paid into a special account of the Bank of Jamaica, the Jamaica National Retained Account, was abolished. Imports and Import Payments June 1. Imports of motor vehicles would no longer require a license. June 17. Import licenses were no longer required for basic foodstuffs, motor vehicles, wood prod- ucts, and fertilizers. A permit would be required for the import of motor vehicles for Government statis- tical purposes. purposes, and foreign exchange allowances for per- sonal and business travel were eliminated. September 25. The requirement that tourists pay their hotel bills and certain other expenses in Ja- maica dollars was removed. Resident travelers were no longer required to sell their holdings of foreign currencies to an authorized dealer upon return. Capital September 25. All inward and outward capital transfers were permitted, except that financial in- stitutions (such as life insurance companies, com- mercial banks, merchant banks, trust companies, finance houses, building societies, unit trusts, pen- sion funds, credit unions, and other organizations that are repositories for domestic financial savings) must match their Jamaica dollar liabilities to their clients with Jamaica dollar assets. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Gold September 25. Limits on remittances of dividends/ profits, transfers abroad for family maintenance September 25. Commercial imports of jewelry would no longer require an import license. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Japan is the Japanese Yen. The authorities of Japan do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are determined on the basis of underlying demand and supply conditions in the exchange markets. However, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to counter disorderly condi- tions in the markets. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. The interbank rate for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1991 was ¥ 124.85 per US$1. Authorized banks may freely carry out spot and forward exchange transactions with their customers, with nonresident banks, and among themselves. Forward exchange con- tracts may be negotiated against foreign curren- cies quoted on the Tokyo exchange market and in other ma jor international foreign exchange mar- kets. There are no officially set rates in the forward market, and forward exchange transactions are based on free market rates. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Japan formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from April 1, 1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated mainly by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Interna- tional Trade and Industry (MITI), and the Bank of Japan acting as the Government's agent. Most of the authority for verifying normal payments is, how- ever, delegated to authorized banks, referred to as foreign exchange banks. Import- and export- reporting requirements are handled by the MITI. With effect from January 1, 1992, inward direct in- vestments have to be reported to the Minister of Finance and other appropriate ministers after such investments have taken place in accordance with the amendment of the law enacted in April 1991. Outward direct investments require prior notice to the Ministry of Finance. On March 18, 1991, restrictions on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions to persons within the territory of Kuwait, which were imposed in August 1990, were lifted. Payments to all countries may be made in any currency, including yen, and receipts may also be obtained in any currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in yen may be opened by any nonresident with any authorized bank in Japan. There are no restrictions on credits to or payments from these accounts, and balances may be con- verted freely into any foreign currency. Payment of interest on balances in such accounts may be re- stricted when it is deemed necessary to prevent drastic fluctuations in the exchange rate of the yen. Imports and Import Payments Imports may be freely made, with the exception of specifically restricted items. The Import Restriction System covers 81 items (four-digit Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System (HS) base), and they are subject to import restrictions falling under the state trading, national security, public health, and moral protection provisions of the GATT. For the restricted items, once the im- porter has obtained authorization from the MITI, he receives an import quota certificate that entitles him to receive an import license from an authorized foreign exchange bank automatically upon applica- tion. For the importation of certain other goods from specified countries or shipping areas, individual authorization must be obtained from the MITI. Import settlements effected under the special methods (that is, those effected by means of open accounts or those involving payments made more than two years before import declaration or after more than two years of shipment) require authori- zation from the MITI. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made without limit. Gifts and donations (except by government institutions) to nonresidents (except relatives abroad) exceeding ¥ 5 million are referred to the Bank of Japan, which approves the payment after verifying its authenticity. However, remittances to relatives abroad may be made without limit. Other current payments for invisibles, such as the pur- chase of foreign currencies in connection with travel 261 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 262 JAPAN abroad, may be made without limit. The exportation of domestic bank notes exceeding ¥ 5 million re- quires ministerial approval. Exports and Export Proceeds Export restraint may be exercised by virtue of the Export and Import Transactions Law and the Export Trade Control Order issued under the Foreign Ex- change and Foreign Trade Control Law. Export re- straint may be applied either globally or to specified destinations, and it may cover export volume, ex- port prices, or other conditions. At the end of 1991, voluntary restraints were applied to exports of cer- tain textile items and machine tools with floor prices to the United States and the European Community (EC), to exports of passenger cars and selected steel products to the United States, and to exports of forklift trucks to the EC. In addition, exports of some other products, including passenger cars to the EC and Sweden and videocasette recorders to the EC, were subject to monitoring by the Government. At the end of 1991, there were 30 export cartels under the provisions of the Export and Import Transactions Law. In addition, 228 items were sub- ject to a license under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law to control their exporta- tion to specified destinations, because of short sup- ply in the domestic market (for example, nickel) or to forestall the imposition of import restrictions by other countries (for example, certain textiles). Ex- ports under processing contracts and exports for which settlements are effected under the special methods described above require authorization from the MITI. Exports of specified raw materials for foreign processing and reimportation require individual licenses. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles may generally be ac- cepted without a license. Residents as well as non- residents may freely bring in any amount in Jap- anese or foreign currency. Capital Capital transactions are, in principle, free unless certain procedures are specifically required. Such specific procedures may take the form of requiring (1) prior approval; (2) prior notice with a waiting period, during which the Minister of Finance or Minister of International Trade and Industry may request or order that the transaction be suspended or that its particulars be modified on the basis of prescribed criteria; or (3) prior notice without a wait- ing period. Acquisition of securities for portfolio may be made freely through designated securities firms, and foreign exchange banks and designated institutional investors may freely acquire securities for portfolio investments. However, acquisition of such securities through securities firms other than the designated ones and borrowings by residents require prior notice without a waiting period. Un- der emergency conditions, however, most capital transactions that are not subject to prior approval in normal conditions may be subject to prior approval. Emergency conditions are defined as situations in which a capital transaction might (1) make the main- tenance of equilibrium in Japan's balance of pay- ments difficult; (2) result in drastic fluctuations in the exchange rate; or (3) result in an international flow of funds large enough to a f fect Japan's money or capital market adversely. A distinction is made between direct investments in Japan and other capital transactions. Besides ma- jority equity ownership of enterprises or establish- ment of branch operations, investments that come under the direct investment regulations include (1) any acquisition of shares in unlisted companies; (2) acquisition by a foreign investor of the shares of a listed company (including individual companies for which the stock price in over-the-counter transac- tions is made public by the Securities Dealers Asso- ciation) that reach 10 percent or more when added to those owned by related persons; and (3) acquisi- tion of loans of more than one-year maturity or securities privately placed in Japan, under certain circumstances. Any change of business objectives of a company with one-third or more foreign owner- ship is also subject to the provisions for direct in- vestment. Requests or orders for suspension or modification of specific aspects of the transaction may be made if the minister or ministers concerned consider the transaction to have adverse implica- tions for national security, public order, public safety, the activities of Japanese enterprises in re- lated lines of activities, the general performance of the economy, or the maintenance of mutual equality of treatment of direct investment with other coun- tries. In April 1991, an amendment to the law gov- erning foreign direct investment was introduced. Under the revised law, foreign investors are re- quired to report only after undertaking investment, except for cases in which national security interest is involved and for four industries reserved under the Capital Movements Liberalization Code of the OECD (agriculture, forestry and fishery, mining and petroleum, and leather and leather products); this exception became effective on January 1, 1992. Outward investments by residents in the form of loans, issue of bonds abroad by residents, issue of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN 263 bonds in Japan by nonresidents, and direct invest- ment abroad are subject to prior notice with a 20-day waiting period. Transactions requiring prior notice with a 20-day waiting period may be subject to sus- pension or modification by the Minister of Finance if, in his opinion, the transaction might adversely affect (1) international financial markets or Japan's international credit standing, (2) domestic and fi- nancial capital markets, (3) business activities of a sector of Japanese industries or the smooth perfor- mance of the national economy, and (4) impleme- ntation of Japan's international agreements, inter- national peace and security, or the maintenance of public order. The Minister of Finance may shorten the waiting period when the transaction under con- sideration is deemed harmless. Other transactions by nonresidents may generally be carried out freely. Overseas deposits by residents, borrowing and lending in foreign currency between residents other than those carried out by an authorized bank in Japan, and issuance of yen-denominated bonds abroad by nonresidents may require prior approval. Other external transactions by residents may nor- mally be carried out freely. Issuance of securities or bonds by residents abroad and of foreign currency- denominated securities or bonds by residents in Japan requires prior notice to the Minister of Finance. Foreign loans by banks are legally subject to prior notice with a waiting period but, in most cases, can be made upon notification. The banks are free to lend yen on a long-term basis overseas to borrowers of their choice, and they can accept foreign currency deposits from residents and nonresidents and make foreign currency loans to residents; foreign cur- rency or yen deposits of nonresidents as well as residents are subject to minimum reserve require- ments adjusted from time to time by the Bank of Japan. Foreign banks are licensed to operate in Japan subject to Japanese banking regulations; they may obtain resources from inward remittances of foreign currency as well as from money markets in Japan. Financial institutions apply the following pruden- tial guidelines to capital transactions: (1) a limit on the holding by insurance companies of securities issued by nonresidents equivalent to 30 percent of total assets; (2) the same ratio applied to purchases of foreign currency-denominated assets; (3) a limit on the holdings by the Post Office Insurance Fund of bonds issued by nonresidents equivalent to 20 per- cent of the reserve funds; (4) a ceiling on foreign currency-denominated assets purchased by pen- sion funds equivalent to 30 percent of pension trust assets (for the new money deposited from April 1, 1990, effective December 27, 1991, the ceiling was relaxed to 50 percent on the basis of each institu- tional account, and the ceiling for foreign-affiliated companies was raised to 70 percent); (5) a ceiling on the investment by credit cooperatives in foreign currency-denominated bonds excluding corporate bonds issued by nonresidents equivalent to 30 per- cent of their net worth; and (6) a ceiling of 5 percent of assets for investment in foreign currency- denominated securities by the loan trust accounts of trust banks. Both residents and nonresidents may maintain foreign currency deposits with authorized banks in Japan and may freely transfer any amount in any foreign currency. Overseas deposits by resident in- dividuals and corporations with a maturity of less than two years and exceeding ¥ 30 million and up to the equivalent of ¥ 100 million are subject to automatic prior approval from the Bank of Japan; overseas deposits up to the equivalent of ¥ 30 mil- lion are not restricted. Qualified Japanese enter- prises in insurance, transportation, and securities are permitted to maintain overseas deposits under blanket licensing. Gold Residents, including domestic producers of gold, may freely hold gold and purchase and sell it in domestic transactions. The importation and expor- tation of gold bullion are free from licensing. Exter- nal futures trading in gold can be freely made by designated companies. Changes During 1991 Imports and Import Payments April 1. Import quotas on several food products (beef, processed cheese, orange, fruit paste, canned pineapple, tomato juice, and tomato ketchup) were eliminated. Payments for Invisibles April 26. An amendment to the law governing the importation of technology under patent rights was promulgated. Under the revised law, Japanese resi- dents importing technology would be required to report only after conclusion of the contract, except for cases where national security interest is involved. Exports and Export Proceeds April 1. The volume of passenger car exports to the United States under voluntary export restraints for the period April 1, 1991-March 31, 1992 was set ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 264 JAPAN at 2.3 million units, the same volume as that applied during the previous 12-month period. Capital April 26. An amendment to the law governing for- eign direct investment was promulgated. Under the revised law, foreign investors were required to report only after undertaking investment, except for cases in which national security interest is involved and for four industries as reserved under the Capital Move- ments Liberalization Code of the OECD (agriculture, forestry and fishery, mining and petroleum industry, and leather and leather products). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Jordan is the Jordan Dinar. The exchange rate of the Jordan dinar is determined on the basis of its relationship to a basket of currencies constituting the SDR, with the weights determined by their relative importance to Jordan's international transactions. On December 31, 1990, the official buying and selling rates quoted by the Bank of Jordan (central bank) for the U.S. dollar were JD 1.48368 per US$1 and JD 1.47929 per US$1, re- spectively. Buying and selling rates for other foreign currencies1 are fixed on the basis of the cross rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies con- cerned in international financial markets. A fee of 0.10 percent is levied on exchange per- mits approved by the central bank for sales of ex- change for imports, except imports of government departments and certain other approved institu- tions. Authorized banks are permitted to enter into forward contracts in major currencies against the Jordan dinar for specified commercial transactions, provided that they cover such operations abroad. Each authorized dealer's forward transactions are subject to quantitative limits. For corporations or projects considered to be of vital national interest, the central bank may offer a forward exchange facil- ity in respect of forward exchange cover provided by Jordanian banks. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Foreign Exchange Control Department of the central bank, which also issues exchange permits; the central bank has delegated to authorized banks the issu- ance of exchange permits for import payments and, within permitted annual limits, for personal invis- ible payments. Import policy is determined by the Ministry of Industry and Trade in cooperation with the Ministries of Finance, Supply, and Agriculture. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Outward payments may be made in any currency. Proceeds from exports and invisibles must be col- 1 Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. lected in any convertible currency through an au- thorized bank in Jordan or from a nonresident ac- count with an authorized bank in Jordan, or in cash in foreign bank notes from abroad. Jordan has con- cluded bilateral trade agreements with Egypt, In- dia, Romania, Sudan, the Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, and Turkey, and bilateral trade and credit agreements with Iraq and the Republic of Yemen. Nonresident Accounts Subject to the prior approval of the central bank, authorized banks may open nonresident accounts in domestic currency. The approval of the central bank is necessary for transfers from resident or non- resident accounts, but transfers between nonresi- dent accounts are permitted freely. In addition, nonresidents, including Jordanians working abroad, may freely open interest-bearing foreign currency accounts with authorized banks. Balances on these accounts may be withdrawn freely in con- vertible currency and may be used for any purpose. The interest rate is fixed in accordance with rates prevailing in international markets. Foreign Currency Accounts Accounts denominated in a foreign currency may be opened at the central bank by governmental and semigovernmental entities, as well as by the spe- cialized credit institutions, licensed finance com- panies, and domestic corporations of vital national interest, provided that outstanding balances (in- cluding interest earnings) in each account do not exceed JD 1 million. This ceiling may be raised in certain cases. Jordanian nationals residing in Jordan may main- tain foreign currency deposits with licensed banks in Jordan, provided that the total balance of the deposits that any one person holds does not exceed the equivalent of JD 500,000. If an account has been credited with currency notes, or with a transfer through the banking system or with checks in for- eign currency, it may be debited only with currency permits; permits are not required if the account has been credited with transfers through the banking system or with checks in foreign currency. Jorda- nians who have worked abroad for more than three years and have decided to return may continue to keep accounts in foreign currencies without limit for a period of up to five years, after which the deposits 265 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 266 JORDAN in excess of the equivalent of JD 500,000 must be converted into Jordan dinars. Licensed banks and financial companies may extend credit facilities to residents and nonresidents against their foreign currency deposits up to JD 100,000 without the prior approval of the central bank. Credits exceeding JD 100,000 may also be extended without the central bank's prior approval, provided that they are fully backed by deposits in foreign currency. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain items2 from any source, and all imports from Israel and South Africa, are pro- hibited. All other imports, unless covered by an agreement between Jordan and the exporting coun- try (that is, agricultural products from neighboring countries), require import licenses if their c. & f. value exceeds JD 100. These are granted freely by the Ministry of Industry and Trade and are subject to a fee of 5 percent of the c. & f. value payable when the import license is issued. Imports requiring a license also require an ex- change permit, which is granted automatically when an import license has been obtained; the im- porter holding an exchange permit may either open a letter of credit or pay against documents. A fee of 0.10 percent is levied on exchange permits for im- ports except those made by government depart- ments and certain approved institutions and indi- vidual permits of less than JD 300. The use of suppliers' credits is subject to prior approval from the central bank, which is normally given for essen- tial imports only. In addition to import duties, a surcharge of 13 percent of the duty-paid value is levied on most imports to finance social welfare and the development of certain public facilities. Advance deposits are required against import let- ters of credit, as follows: (1) 15 percent for industrial machinery, equipment and their spare parts, raw materials, basic foods tuffs, and medicines that do not have domestic substitutes; and (2) 35 percent for all other imports into the kingdom. Imports into Free Zones With the discontinuation of central bank issuance of exchange permits for imports to free zones and for transit trade, it is the importer's responsibility to provide foreign currencies to finance such transac- 2These include carbonic acid, some nonalcoholic beverages, cigarettes, secondhand passenger cars and buses that are more than five years old, and military uniforms. Certain of these com- modities may be imported, however, from Arab Common Market countries and from countries with which trade agreements are in force. Imports of certain agricultural commodities may be pro- hibited in good crop years. tions. Foodstuffs, raw materials, and spare parts are subject to a minimum cash deposit of 20 percent; other goods are subject to a cash margin deposit of 45 percent. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized im- ports are not restricted. Remittances by postal order do not require ex- change control approval, provided that they do not exceed JD 10 a person a month. Payments for the following types of invisibles are generally permitted within certain limits: remittances to residents' de- pendents, reasonable living expenses of Jordanian nationals abroad, expenses of Jordanian residents traveling abroad; educational expenses, expenses for medical treatment; and insurance payments in accordance with special regulations.3 A fee of 0.10 percent is levied on exchange per- mits for invisible payments except those of govern- ment departments and certain approved institu- tions, permits financed from nonresident accounts in foreign currency, credited from sources outside Jordan, and those with a value of less than JD 300. No limit exists on the remittance of income accrued to nonresidents or savings of foreign nationals who intend to return to their own countries. The exchange allowance for business and tourist travel and pilgrimages is the equivalent of JD 10,000 a person (JD 1,000 for children under 18). An addi- tional amount equivalent to JD 10,000 is allowed for medical treatment or hospital charges. These al- lowances are granted annually for one or more trips. For family support, an annual allowance equivalent to JD 10,000 for each beneficiary is permitted; how- ever, remittances may be made by postal order for amounts not exceeding the equivalent of JD 10 a month to any one person residing abroad and are not subject to this ceiling. The policy in respect of payments for invisibles is, in general, liberal and nondiscriminatory. In practice, the central bank does not restrict remittances of income accruing to nonresidents or of savings of foreign nationals re- turning to their own countries. In addition to any travel allocation, residents and nonresidents traveling abroad may take out up to JD 300 in Jordanian bank notes and coins. Nonresi- dents working in Jordan may transfer 70 percent of their salaries if they maintain a nonresident Jordan dinar account; if they do not have such accounts, they may transfer up to JD 100 a month up to a 3All insurance must be taken out in Jordan, but foreign ex- change is granted for premiums in respect of insurance contracts concluded before May 1965. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN 267 maximum of JD 1,200 a year. Furthermore, all trav- elers may take out checks, traveler's checks, or let- ters of credit issued by authorized banks in Jordan, in accordance with exchange permits authorized by the central bank. Tourists and other nonresidents may also take out foreign currency notes and coins and any other foreign means of payment that they had previously brought in and declared to the customs authorities at the time of entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Proceeds from exports of goods of Jordanian origin must be repatriated through authorized banks; pro- ceeds from re-exports of goods must be repatriated within three months of shipment. Exporters are allowed to retain 10 percent of proceeds in deposits at local commercial banks or financial institutions and to use them to pay for imports of inputs. Fertil- izer and mining companies must sell balances ex- ceeding 10 percent of proceeds to the central bank, and their foreign exchange requirements are pro- vided by the central bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be repatriated through an authorized bank. Trav- elers entering Jordan may bring in any amount of Jordanian and foreign notes and coins.4 Any person considered for exchange control purposes as a resi- dent of Jordan may be required by the central bank to surrender to an authorized bank any foreign ex- change at his disposal. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted, but outward transfers require approval and are not nor- mally permitted, except that the central bank may approve applications made by banks, insurance companies, industrial or trading firms, and contrac- tors for permission to transfer funds abroad for specified investment or operating purposes. Cur- rent income resulting from nonresident invest- ments in Jordan may be transferred abroad. Under the Law for the Encouragement of Investment, profits, dividends, and interest from approved for- eign investments may be remitted, subject to the approval of the Ministry of Industry and Trade in accordance with the guidelines of the central bank. After two years, repatriation of the capital is permit- Approval is not granted for the crediting of such Jordanian currency to a nonresident account or for the remittance abroad of the equivalent in foreign currency. ted with the approval of the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the central bank. The Investment Committee may approve more liberal provisions, and exchange permits are granted accordingly. The Foreign Companies Registration Law No. 46 (1975) provides various benefits to foreign companies es- tablishing branches in Jordan for purposes of con- ducting business outside the country; such branches may also be granted nonresident status for exchange control purposes. Premium Development Bonds denominated in Jordan dinars may be pur- chased with convertible currencies by nonresidents; proceeds from redemption at maturity, including interest, are transferable in any convertible currency. Gold The Central Bank has issued ten gold coins, which, although legal tender, do not circulate and are available only to nonresidents and domestic numismatists. Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Jordan for numismatic or invest- ment purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized in- dustrial users are not, in principle, allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Licenses for imports of gold in any form other than jewelry are issued by the Ministry of Industry and Trade on the recommendation of the central bank, while exports of gold in any form require an additional license from the central bank. Changes During 1991 Foreign Currency Accounts March 18. Authorized banks and financial com- panies were allowed to extend credit facilities to residents and nonresidents against their foreign currency deposits up to JD 100,000 without the prior approval of the central bank. Credits exceeding JD 100,000 may also be extended without the central bank's prior approval, provided that they are fully backed by deposits in foreign currency. August 6. The maximum balance residents are permitted to hold in foreign currency accounts with authorized banks and financial companies was in- creased to the equivalent of JD 500,000 from the equivalent of JD 150,000. Imports and Import Payments December 12. The rate of advance deposits against letters of credit for imports of industrial machinery, equipment and their spare parts, raw materials, basic foodstuffs, and medicines that do not have domestic ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 268 JORDAN substitutes was reduced to 15 percent from 30 per- cent, and that for other imports was reduced to 35 percent from 80 percent. For imports of foodstuffs, raw materials, and spare parts into the free trade zones, the deposit rate was reduced to 20 percent; the deposit rate for other goods imported into the free zones remained unchanged at 45 percent. provide annually were increased as follows: (1) travel for studies and pilgrimage, and family support, to the equivalent of JD 10,000 from JD 5,000 (travel allowance for children under 18, to JD 1,000 from JD 500); and (2) for medical treatment, to the equivalent of JD 10,000 from JD 5,000. Payments for Invisibles November 16. The amounts of foreign exchange banks and financial companies are allowed to July 23. A reserve ratio of 15 percent was imposed on offshore banks belonging to Jordanian banks and financial companies. Capital ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Kenya is the Kenya Shilling, which is pegged to a basket of currencies. The mid- dle rate of the Kenya shilling for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Central Bank is determined^ on the basis of the daily U.S. dollar-SDR rate. The Central Bank's buying and selling rates are each set at 0.15 percent above and below the rate thus deter- mined. On December 31, 1991, buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were K Sh 28.0319 and K Sh 28.1162, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other curren- cies1 are determined on the basis of New York U.S. dollar closing rates for the currencies con- cerned. The Central Bank does not deal in other foreign currencies, except occasionally on behalf of the Government. A system of foreign exchange bearer certificates (FEBCs) was introduced in October 1991. Residents and nonresidents may use convertible foreign ex- change to purchase FEBCs, which are denominated in U.S. dollars, with denominations ranging from $500 to $10,000, without revealing the source of funds that they used to purchase them. Purchasers of FEBCs receive both Kenya shillings (at the current official exchange rate) and FEBCs at the time of purchase. FEBCs can be redeemed at any time after purchase period for the foreign currency face value (plus a LIBOR interest rate, if redeemed after three months) on payment of the Kenya shilling equiv- alent at the official exchange rate prevailing at the time of redemption. Residents and nonresidents may use the foreign exchange they receive after encashing the FEBCs to undertake any current or international capital transactions without restric- tion. FEBCs may also be bought and sold on the secondary market without restriction at a negoti- ated price; there is no requirement to complete an application for the purchase of FEBCs or to register their ownership. Commercial banks are authorized to enter into forward exchange contracts with their customers in pounds sterling, U.S. dollars, and deutsche mark, for periods of up to three months for export receipts Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Burundi francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Ethiopian birr, French francs, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, Swaziland emalangeni, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Tanzania shillings, Uganda shillings, and Zambian kwacha. and up to six months for import payments, at pre- miums or discounts administratively set by the Central Bank. Forward cover is permitted for trade transactions only. The Central Bank deals with com- mercial banks up to six months forward for imports and up to three months forward for exports. There are no official schemes for currency swaps or ex- change rate guarantee schemes for external debt servicing, except for the Exchange Risk Assumption Fund, which covers the foreign exchange losses as- sociated with exchange rate fluctuations occurring after July 1, 1989 for three development finance institutions. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance has delegated the admin- istration of exchange control to the Central Bank. Authority is delegated to the authorized banks for approving certain payments for imports, many pay- ments for current invisibles, and some capital payments. Import controls are administered by the Director of Internal Trade in the Ministry of Commerce. The responsibility for issuing import licenses rests with the Director, to whom applications must be submit- ted by the importer in Kenya before orders are placed abroad. Applications for the allocation of foreign exchange for imports are forwarded by the Director to the Central Bank. The approval of ap- plications for imports is granted by the Import Man- agement Committee, and the Foreign Exchange Al- location Committee approves the allocation of foreign exchange for each application. Both commit- tees are composed of representatives from the Min- istries of Finance, Planning and National Develop- ment, Commerce, and Industry, and from the Central Bank. The Director of External Trade in the Ministry of Commerce deals with export promotion and issues special licenses for the exportation of restricted goods, such as maize and other food products. Exports of certain agricultural products (beans, sugar, rice, raw cotton, maize, meal, and millet) require a special license. Prescription of Currency Payments to residents of other countries may be made in Kenya shillings to the credit of an external account in Kenya or in any foreign currency. Re- ceipts may be obtained in Kenya shillings from an 269 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 270 KENYA external account in Kenya or in any marketable for- eign currency. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Kenya shillings held by residents of other countries with authorized banks in Kenya are, with exchange control approval, designated exter- nal accounts. They may be credited freely with au- thorized payments to such countries by residents of Kenya, with transfers from other external accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any currency and gold by nonresidents to authorized dealers. External accounts may be debited freely for pay- ments to residents and nonresidents. Nontransferable funds of nonresidents are cred- ited to blocked accounts. Subject to prescribed pro- cedures, balances on blocked accounts may be used for approved domestic expenditures and for the purchase in Kenya of specified bonds issued by the Government or by local authorities and officially quoted in Kenya.2 The redemption proceeds of these securities are transferable, and interest is freely transferable to nonresidents as and when it accrues. Enterprises operating in export processing zones (EPZs) are permitted to hold foreign currency ac- counts abroad or with authorized banks in Kenya and may use the balances on these amounts to pay operating expenses; they may use balances in for- eign currency accounts to pay business-related ex- penses (including imports, debt service, and divi- dends); they are not required to surrender foreign exchange earnings to the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments For purposes of import-licensing requirements, products are classified into three schedules. Import licenses are valid for three or six months, depending on product categories. All private sector importers require a license to receive an allocation of foreign exchange, and licenses are issued jointly by the Director of Internal Trade and the Central Bank. Applications must be approved before firm orders can be placed. Schedule I consists of mainly high-priority capital goods, raw materials, and intermediate inputs. The approval of licenses for imports on this schedule is, in principle, virtually automatic. Licenses are ap- proved by the Director of Internal Trade, and for- eign exchange is allocated by the Central Bank. Items on Schedule II are of relatively high priority 2Such securities must be payable in Kenya shillings and they must not be redeemable earlier than five years from the date of acquisition. and require ministerial or government approval, in general relating to technical criteria, before a license can be issued. Licenses associated with Schedule II are, in principle, approved automatically once the technical criteria are met. Items on Schedule III are subdivided into three groups. Items on Schedules IIIA and IIIB, which include finished goods, are licensed virtually automatically (as in the case of Schedule I). In June 1990, 35 percent of items on Schedule IIIC were shifted to Schedule IIIB, and in June 1991, the remaining items on Schedule IIIC (with the excep- tion of goods to be restricted for public health, se- curity, and environmental reasons) were shifted to Schedule IIIB. Imports are, in principle, free of quantitative restrictions, except for a few items re- maining on Schedule IIIC. Customs tariffs are thus applied as the sole form of protection of domestic industry. There are 11 customs tariff nomencla- tures, with the rates varying from 0 percent to 70 percent. In June 1990 and June 1991, the average tariff rate on all items previously on schedules other than IIIC was lowered by about 5 percentage points. In September 1990, a system of exemptions was introduced under which exporters of horticultural goods and agro-based products were exempted from paying import duties and value-added tax on imported inputs. Applications for foreign exchange allocation li- censes for imports are subject to a charge of 2.0 per- cent of the cost and freight value of the application. When an exchange allocation license has been obtained from the Central Bank or when such a license is not required, authorized banks are per- mitted to provide exchange against documents, but normally not before customs entry. Prior exchange control approval must be obtained for imports of capital goods on deferred payment terms, and for imports of machinery and equipment, which are regarded as a contribution toward equity capital or are to be accounted for on a loan basis. All imports with an f .o .b. value of more than K Sh 50,000 are subject to preshipment inspection for quality, quantity, and price. A "Clean Report of Findings" must be obtained before shipment, and authorized banks in Kenya may not issue shipping guarantees for the clearance of imports until they receive this Clean Report. All goods purchased by importers in Kenya must be insured with com- panies licensed to transact insurance business in Kenya. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled. Autho- rized banks are empowered to approve specified ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA 271 categories of current payments without limitation or up to established limits. Amounts above these limits as well as other current payments may be approved administratively, and most current pay- ments are, in practice, unrestricted. Fees for education up to the equivalent of K Sh 24,000 a person for a fu ll scholastic year and fees for other specified purposes may be approved by an authorized bank upon presentation of evi- dence of debt. The Central Bank may approve higher remittances for education expenses. For- eign nationals who work in Kenya as employed persons (as well as certain categories of the self- employed, such as doctors and dentists) and who have not been in the coun try for more than four years may remit abroad as savings up to one third of their monthly salaries but not more than K Sh 10,000 a month; in addition, they may remit funds to cover maintenance, educational ex- penses, and so on, provided that their total remit- tances including savings do not exceed one half of their monthly salaries. Expatriates who have stayed for over four years may continue to remit f rom salaries as above, up to the end of the ten th year of their residence in Kenya, but in that case they are not entitled to t ran s fer additional savings upon emigration within that period. Nonresident individual property owners may re- mit up to K Sh 20,000 of net rental income in each 12- month period. Any excess of net rent over the per- mitted transfer is placed in a blocked account and may be invested in approved securities with at least five years' maturity, after which period the redemp- tion proceeds may be remitted to the nonresident beneficiary. Real estate companies deriving income solely from rent are permitted to transfer annually up to 10 percent of the book value of their properties as of September 25, 1970, or an amount not exceed- ing 10 percent of issued capital. If they derive in- come f rom rent as well as from other sources, they must submit an application to the exchange control authorities for approval to remit such incomes. Ex- change control approval is required for outward remittance of profits and dividends on nonresident equity holdings. The basic allowance for travel by adults holding round-trip tickets is K Sh 10,000 a person (K Sh 5,000 for children between 3 and 12 years of age) every three years. Holders of one-way tickets who have been granted emigration status or final departure rights are entitled not to the basic travel allowance but to an allowance of K Sh 5,000 a person. Com- mercial banks may sell foreign exchange for busi- ness travel to Tanzania and Uganda of up to K Sh 400 a night for a maximum period of 10 days at a time. Business travelers to other countries are granted an allowance of up to K Sh 2,500 a day for a maximum period of 20 days. A pilgrimage al- lowance of K Sh 25,000 for adults is available once only to persons who have not used the basic travel allowance since August 23, 1989. Nonresident trav- elers may freely take out any unused balance of foreign currency notes they brought in. Residents of Kenya traveling abroad on international flights and holding return tickets may carry up to K Sh 200 with them for local expenses on return, but otherwise the exportation of Kenyan bank notes is prohibited. Temporarily, all sales of tickets to Kenyan residents for nongovernmental travel outside Kenya are sub- ject to exchange control approval. Applications for travel tickets must be accompanied by a deposit of 10 percent of the value of the air ticket and 5 percent of the sea ticket, returnable only if the applications are not approved. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain f o o d s t u f fs and agricultural produc ts require special licenses and may be re- stricted to ensure adequate supplies in the domes- tic market. Exports of tea, coffee, minerals, pre- cious stones, and other essential strategic materials are also subject to special licensing. Most other goods may be exported w i thout special licenses other than exchange control approval. Effec t ive October 1, 1987, co f fee, tea, and hor- ticultural produce may be exported only if a sales contract is registered with the Coffee Board, Tea Board, and Horticultural Crops Development Au- thority, respectively. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be collected in Kenya in an appro- priate manner within three months of the date of exportation and sold to the Central Bank. Exports of manu fac tu red goods with at least 30 percent domestic value added are eligible for export com- pensation for duties paid on imported inpu ts equivalent to 20 percent of the f .o .b. value. One thousand two hund red fifty-one export items, other than co f fee, tea, sugar, sisal, py re th rums, hor t icu l tural products, petroleum products, soda ash, and most goods produced with raw ma ter ial inpu ts not subject to import duty, are covered by the export compensation scheme. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in foreign currencies must be sold to an authorized bank. Nonresidents must settle hotel bills in foreign currency or against an external account. Travelers may freely bring in foreign currency notes, except those of countries ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 272 KENYA with restrictions on the exportation of their curren- cies. The importation of domestic bank notes is pro- hibited, except that residents returning to Kenya may bring in up to K Sh 200 that they had previously taken out. Capital Capital transfers to all countries are regulated. With the exception of expatriate employees who have opted to remit savings from their salaries, an emigrant is allowed to transfer up to K Sh 600,000 a family unit from his declared assets as a settling-in allowance to the new country of residence. Of this sum, K Sh 200,000 is made available for immediate remittance, and the remainder will be authorized for remittance in not more than five annual install- ments, not exceeding the equivalent of K Sh 80,000 each year. The initial settling-in allowance of K Sh 200,000 lapses if it is not remitted within the first two years of the emigrant's departure from Kenya. All remaining funds must be credited to a blocked account; they may then be invested in ap- proved securities, and redemption proceeds be- come transferable, provided that redemption does not take place earlier than five years from the date of purchase. The investment of foreign funds in Kenya is gen- erally not restricted, but to ensure eventual re- patriation it is necessary to obtain from the Treasury a "certificate of approved enterprise" for the invest- ment. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production require approval. Foreign inves- tors may repatriate the value of the original equity investment denominated in the currency in which it was initially made and the value of any profits that were reinvested and denominated in the currency of the original investment. Local borrowing by non- resident-owned or -controlled companies, as well as borrowing by residents from nonresidents, requires exchange control approval and is restricted. Capital gains on foreign investors' blocked funds may be invested in government securities. All imports and exports of securities require ap- proval. Approval is granted for the purchase by nonresidents of Kenyan securities on a recognized stock exchange, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remittable, but the proceeds on resale must normally be credited to a blocked account unless they are reinvested. Purchases of foreign securities by residents are subject to prior approval from the Central Bank. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Kenya for numismatic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the per- sonal effects of a traveler require exchange control approval. Import licenses for gold bullion (ingots, bars, or sheets) are issued restrictively and only to goldsmiths, and imports of gold coins are not being licensed. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement October 1. A system of foreign exchange bearer certificates (FEBCs) was introduced. Residents and nonresidents may use convertible foreign ex- change to purchase FEBCs, which are denomi- nated in U.S. dollars, with denominations rang- ing f rom $500 to $10,000 without revealing the source of funds that are used to purchase them. Purchasers of FEBCs receive both Kenya shillings (at the current official exchange rate) and FEBCs at the time of purchase. FEBCs can be redeemed at any time a f ter purchase for the foreign currency face value (plus interest at LIBOR if redeemed a f ter three months) on payment of the Kenya shill- ing equivalent at the official exchange rate prevail- ing at the time of redemption. Residents and non- residents may use the foreign exchange they receive a f ter encashing the FEBCs to undertake any current or international capital transactions without restriction. FEBCs may also be bought and sold on the secondary market without restric- tion at a negotiated price; there is no requirement to complete an application for the purchase of FEBCs or to register their ownership. Nonresident Accounts June 17. Enterprises operating in EPZs were per- mitted to hold foreign currency accounts abroad or with authorized banks in Kenya and to open exter- nal accounts in Kenya shillings with an authorized bank. Imports and Import Payments January 15. The processing fee for foreign ex- change applications in respect of imports was raised to 2 percent from 1.5 percent. June 13. All items remaining on Schedule IIIC were shifted to the less restrictive Schedule IIIB, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA 273 except for goods restricted for health, security, or environmental reasons. This transfer essentially re- moved quantitative restrictions on imports, as only a few items remained on Schedule IIIC. The number of import tariff nomenclatures was reduced to 11 from 12, and the highest duty rate was lowered to 70 percent from 100 percent. The average tariff rate on all items previously on schedules other than IIIC was lowered by about 5 percentage points. Discrim- inatory duty exemptions on a number of goods were removed, and the cost of air freight was excluded from the tariff base for imports shipped by air. Payments for Invisibles November 11. The requirement that visitors or re- turning residents must declare the foreign currency in their possession was removed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KIRIBATI (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The official currency of Kiribati is the Australian Dollar; a small number of Kiribati coins are also in circulation. There is no central monetary institution, and the authorities do not buy or sell foreign ex- change. The Bank of Kiribati (the only commercial bank) quotes daily rates for 15 currencies1 on the basis of their respective values against the Aus- tralian dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Kiribati formally accepted the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as f rom August 22, 1986. Prescription of Currency Both outward and inward payments may be set- tled in Australian currency or in any foreign cur- rency.2 Purchases and sales of foreign currencies in exchange for Australian dollars must be undertaken with an authorized foreign exchange dealer, of which the only one is the Bank of Kiribati. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are normally not required. The importation of a limited range of goods is prohibited 1 Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Fiji dollars, Hong Kong dollars, Japanese yen, New Zealand dollars, Papua New Guinea kina, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Solomon Islands dol- lars, Swiss francs, Tongan pa'anga, U.S. dollars, Vanuatu vatu, and Western Samoa tala. 2Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Australian dollar. for health, safety, or environmental reasons. Tariffs, which apply to most private imports, are imposed mainly for revenue purposes. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no surrender requirements for export proceeds. There are no taxes or quantitative restric- tions on exports, but copra can be exported only through the Kiribati Copra Cooperative Society. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for or re- ceipts from invisibles. Capital The authorities maintain a liberal a t t i tude to- ward foreign direct investment. All applications for foreign investment have to be made to the Foreign Investment Commission, which approves applications when the total foreign capital contri- bution to foreign investments is $A 250,000 or less. Applications with a higher capital contribu- tion are approved by the Cabinet. Export- promoting or import-substituting investments are p re fe r red. Under the Foreign Investment Promo- tion Act, investors may be granted du ty - f ree im- ports of capital goods and raw materials. Invest- ments in pioneer industries are eligible for a tax holiday of up to five years. Repatriation of profits and capital is normally unrestricted. Changes During 1991 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 274 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Korea is the Korean Won. Since the introduction of a market average rate (MAR) system on March 2, 1990, the Korean won-U.S. dol- lar rate has been determined on the basis of the weighted average of interbank rates for Korean won-U.S. dollar spot transactions of the previous day. During each business day, the Korean won- U.S. dollar exchange rate in the interbank market is allowed to fluctuate within fixed margins of ± 0.6 percent against the MAR. The exchange rates of the won against currencies other than the U.S. dollar are determined in relation to the ex- change rate of the U.S. dollar against these curren- cies in the international market. On December 31, 1991, the middle rate for the U.S. dollar of the Bank of Korea was W 760.80. The telegraphic transfer buying and selling rates offered to customers are set freely by foreign exchange banks daily within mar- gins of ± 0.6 percent (± 0.4 percent on transactions of less than $100,000) against the market average exchange rate; for currencies other than the U.S. dollar, the telegraphic transfer buying and sell- ing rates offered to customers are also set freely by foreign exchange banks daily within margins of ± 0 .8 percent. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Foreign exchange banks may conduct forward transactions, fu tures transactions, swaps, and op- tions between foreign currencies as well as between the Korean won and foreign currencies. There are no specific restrictions on the terms of forward con- tracts in respect of interbank transactions. However, the terms of forward contracts between a foreign exchange bank and a nonbank customer must be based on a bona fide transaction, and the contract amount must not exceed the expected receipt or payment on the transaction. Korea formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from November 1, 1988. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance initiates policy with re- spect to prescription of currency and method of settlement, foreign exchange operations, payments for nonmerchandise transactions, and capital trans- actions and transfers. The Bank of Korea, as the Government's agent, executes most of the above functions; it also regulates operations in the ex- change market and is authorized to intervene in it. The Bank of Korea has been delegated authority to control payments related to invisibles and certain capital transactions. The foreign exchange banks, as well as the branch offices of foreign banks in Korea, are authorized to engage in commercial interna- tional banking and in all foreign exchange dealings, with the exception of those specifically prohibited. Prescription of Currency All settlements between Korea and other coun- tries are made in convertible currencies. The pro- ceeds of exports must be obtained in prescribed currencies.1 Residents are permitted to carry out current transactions denominated in Korean won, provided that settlements are to be made in desig- nated foreign currencies. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents, including Korean workers abroad, may maintain foreign currency deposit accounts with foreign exchange banks. Remittances from such accounts and withdrawals in the form of cur- rency notes upon departure from Korea may, in general, be made freely. The approval of the bank where the account is held is not required for remit- tances abroad or transfers to other foreign currency accounts, for purchases and withdrawals of foreign means of payment, or for payments relating to ap- proved transactions. All residents are allowed to open foreign currency deposit accounts. The holders of these accounts may change the foreign currency composition of these accounts as they wish. Imports and Import Payments All imports require licenses; for most imports (see below), licenses are issued upon application. Im- ports are divided into two categories: automatic ap- proval or restricted items. All commodities may be imported freely (that is, applications for import li- censes are automatically approved), unless they are 1In addition to the Hong Kong dollar and the Swiss franc, the prescribed currencies are those of the member countries of the IMF that have accepted the obligations of Article VIII of the IMF's Articles of Agreement. 275 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 276 KOREA on the restricted list. As of the end of Decem- ber 1991, out of 10,274 basic items on the Harmo- nized System, 283 were classified as restricted. Im- ports of raw materials for the production of exports are normally approved automatically, irrespective of their classification. Import licenses are granted only to registered traders, who are required to export and/or import a minimum value of $0.5 million in any one of the last two calendar years. The commercial terms of pay- ment on which imports may be contracted are regulated. On July 1, 1987, the Trade Act came into effect, which, among other things, introduced a system of safeguards against import surges that is more com- prehensive and less restrictive than the previous system of import surveillance lists and adjustment tar iffs. The Trade Act provided for the establish- ment of a five-member Trade Commission, which decides whether or not imports of foreign products have harmed domestic industries. If it determines that domestic industries have been harmed, it rec- ommends the form of import relief to be provided, including imposing quotas or other restrictions on the import category in terms of quantity, quality, or other relevant factors. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require an individual license. Those connected with foreign trade and certain other items, such as banking charges, insur- ance premiums, communication fees, and periodi- cals, are licensed automatically. Korean companies are authorized to obtain foreign exchange to meet the expenses of their overseas branches. Residents traveling abroad may, in general, pur- chase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of $5,000 a trip as the basic travel allowance; additional foreign exchange may also be purchased for spec- ified expenses, including transportation costs. The monthly allowance for residents staying abroad for over 60 days is $3,000 (the allowance for Korean nationals working in an overseas branch of a firm is $10,000). Credit card holders are allowed to charge all expenses that are directly associated with their travel without limit during business and official travel to foreign countries. The basic monthly al- lowance for students living abroad is $1,500 for each individual, and for students with a family, an addi- tional allowance of $500 for the spouse and $300 for each child is granted. Korean residents are allowed to remit up to $5,000 a transaction to their parents and children abroad for living expenses, or to their relatives abroad for a wedding gift or donation for a funera l. In addition, remittance by a resident of up to $10,000 a transaction is permitted without ap- proval, provided that the reason for the remittance is confirmed by a foreign exchange bank. The Gov- ernor of the Bank of Korea grants approval for any bona fide exchange application for additional amounts. Korean currency notes in excess of W 2 million and foreign currency notes in excess of the equiv- alent of $10,000 may not be exported without special permission. Upon leaving the country, nonresi- dents may acquire foreign exchange up to the amount for which they have proof of conversion. Foreigners employed by Korean and expatriate firms in Korea may remit their salaries, except for basic living expenses, and retirement allowances to their home countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports on a restricted list require individ- ual licenses. All other products may be exported freely under an automatic approval procedure. For- eign exchange proceeds from exports must either be surrendered to a foreign exchange bank at its posted customer rate or be deposited in foreign currency accounts in banks. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds derived from invisibles must either be sold to a foreign exchange bank for won or be depos- ited in foreign exchange accounts in the banks. However, Korean residents are authorized to retain up to $5,000 in foreign exchange. Nonresidents must register the foreign exchange that they bring into Korea if the amount exceeds the equivalent of $5,000. The importation by travelers of Korean cur- rency in excess of W 2 million is restricted. The proceeds received by construction companies from construction activity abroad must be depos- ited in foreign currency accounts, and a foreign exchange bank must approve their conversion after ascertaining the bona fide nature of the transac- tions; approval is given virtually automatically. Capital All overseas investments and loans by residents to nonresidents require approval. Overseas invest- ments of less than $2 million by Korean residents are authorized automatically if the documentary re- quirements are met; investments of less than $5 mil- lion are not subject to government deliberation. A Korean business incorporated abroad is allowed to retain profits for the purpose of expanding its over- seas investment business or improving its financial status. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA 277 The foreign exchange allowance for emigrants is limited to $200,000 for current expenses and $300,000 a household for investment purposes. Ad- ditional allowances for emigrant investment abroad are subject to the recommendation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Foreign exchange banks may grant authorization for such remittances. Foreign exchange banks are required to maintain an over- bought foreign exchange position equivalent to 1 percent of the preceding month's average total value of foreign exchange bought. Regulations governing foreign investment in Korea and the contracting of loans to residents by nonresidents are as follows. Foreign Investment Since July 1, 1984, the Foreign Capital Induce- ment Act has ruled that direct investment will be allowed in all industries, except those specified on a "negative" list; previously, direct investment was allowed only in industries on a "positive" list. At the end of December 1991, the negative list consisted of 206 out of a total of 999 industrial sectors, implying a liberalization ratio of 79.4 percent. In the manufac- turing industries, the negative list consisted of 12 out of 522 sectors, implying a liberalization ratio of 97.7 percent. The negative list distinguishes be- tween prohibited and restricted sectors. The former are activities reserved exclusively for the Govern- ment or public entities and those that may be inju- rious to public health or moral standards. Restricted activities are not, in general, open to foreign invest- ment, but specific projects may be approved in ac- cordance with established criteria. Partnership with local firms is generally no longer required of foreign-invested companies. There are no restrictions on the maximum value of foreign investment. Tax privileges may be granted to foreign-invested projects that are accompanied by advanced technology. Tax privileges have been con- tinuously reduced, and after-investment controls have also been relaxed to treat foreign and local companies on an equal basis. In March 1991, a notification system was intro- duced under the Foreign Capital Inducement Act. As a result, authorization of foreign investment is now subject to approval or notification requirements. Un- der the notification system, a foreign firm is permitted to engage in business 30 days after submitting noti- fication, unless its notification is not accepted for rea- sons of national security, protection of the environ- ment, or violation of antitrust or fair trade laws. The notification system will gradually be expanded, and all but a few liberalized industries will be covered by the system as of January 1993. Acquisition of land by foreign-invested companies is subject to the approval of the provincial and local governments. Investment approval is normally granted within 30 days. The overseas remittance of dividends and legitimate profits accrued from stocks or shares owned by a foreign investor is freely permitted. The repatriation of foreign capital is also freely permitted. Loans Authorization is required for foreign borrowing. Foreign borrowing of more than $1 million and with a maturity of more than three years is governed by the Foreign Capital Inducement Act. Foreign borrowing repayable within three years is governed by the Foreign Exchange Control Act. Regulations governing the use of foreign borrowing for short-term trade finance have been tightened on several occasions in recent years. At the end of De- cember 1990, the maximum maturity for trade credits (usance letters of credit) was limited to 30 days for imports from Hong Kong, Japan, the Philip- pines, and Taiwan Province of China (on account of their geographical proximity), and to 60 days for imports originating in other countries. Subject to certain ceilings, foreign bank branches can enter into foreign currency swap transactions with the Bank of Korea at a fixed yield of 0.3 percent to secure funds for their domestic currency lending. Gold Residents may freely buy, hold, or sell gold in any form in Korea. Imports of gold in any form other than gold coins in circulation do not require any approval or license. This means that certain commemorative coins that are legal tender but not in circulation may be freely imported. Exports of gold in any form/other than finished and processed products whose primary component is gold, require the approval of the Bank of Korea. Domestically produced gold may be disposed of in the free market. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement July 1. Documentation requirements for foreign exchange transactions between a foreign exchange bank and a nonbank customer (both spot and for- ward) were liberalized, whereby documents for transactions up to $1 million were permitted to be submitted after the execution of transactions; pre- viously, this limit was $500,000 a transaction. September 2. The daily trading range in the inter- bank market for the won-U.S. dollar exchange rate was widened from ± 0.4 percent to ± 0.6 percent of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 278 KOREA the weighted average of the previous day's ex- change rate (market average rate (MAR)). The mar- gin for transactions in U.S. dollars between banks and their customers was widened from 0.4 percent to 0.6 percent (except for transactions under $100,000). The corresponding margin for customer transactions in other currencies remained un- changed at 0.8 percent. Prescription of Currency September 16. Residents were permitted to carry out all current transactions in Korean won, provided that settlements would be made in designated for- eign currencies. Nonresident Accounts July 1. Documentation requirements for foreign currency deposits were liberalized, and firms whose annual external transactions exceed $10 mil- lion were exempted from documentation require- ments for foreign currency deposits up to 10 percent of the amount of their annual foreign currency transactions (up to a limit of $100 million); pre- viously, only firms whose annual external transac- tions exceed $100 million were exempted from docu- mentation requirements for foreign currency deposits up to $10 million. December 18. The prohibition on sales of foreign currencies from accounts for purposes of making domestic payments was abolished. Nonresidents were not required to obtain approval from the Bank of Korea to convert more than the equivalent of $50,000 in foreign exchange into won. Imports and Import Payments July 1. Ninety-three items, mostly agricultural products, were liberalized in accordance with the 1989-91 import liberalization program. Documenta- tion requirements for purchases of foreign exchange for import transactions up to $1 million were permit- ted to be submitted after the execution of transac- tions; previously, this limit was $500,000 a transaction. Capital January 1. Foreign direct investments were per- mitted in ventures involving the importation of alco- holic beverages wholesale. March 1. A Notification System was introduced under the Foreign Capital Inducement Act, sim- plifying procedures for approval of foreign direct investment. Under the new system, applications for foreign investment, except those industries on the negative list and in certain other categories, would be deemed approved 30 days after the date of sub- mission of notification, unless the notification is not accepted for reasons of national security, environ- mental protection, or violation of antitrust or fair trade laws. July 1. The required ratio of the overbought for- eign exchange position of foreign exchange banks was reduced to 1 percent of the preceding month's average total value of foreign exchange bought; pre- viously, the required ratio was 2 percent. Restric- tions on the scope of foreign investment in the retail sector were eased with the number of retail shops per investment increasing to ten from one, and the maximum floor space per shop increasing to 1,000 square meters from 700 square meters. September 16. Korean subsidiaries abroad were permitted to obtain offshore financing without the prior approval of their prime credit bank for loans amounting up to $5 million; previously, the limit was $1 million. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Kuwait is the Kuwaiti Dinar. The exchange value of the Kuwaiti dinar is determined on the basis of a fixed but adjustable relationship between the Kuwaiti dinar and a weighted basket of currencies, with the weights reflecting the relative importance of currencies in Kuwait's trade and fi- nancial relations. The Central Bank sets the rate for the U.S. dollar on the basis of the latest available market quotations for that currency in relation to the other currencies included in the basket. On Decem- ber 30, 1991, the buying and selling rates of the Central Bank for the U.S. dollar were KD 0.28445 and KD 0.28455, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of for- eign exchange. The most common arrangement for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official and the commercial banking sectors is handled through dealings in the international for- ward exchange markets. The forward market for Kuwaiti dinar trading has been temporarily sus- pended since the war with Iraq. On April 5, 1963, Kuwait formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control, and residents and non- residents may freely purchase and sell foreign curren- cies in Kuwait. Dealings in the currencies of Israel and South Africa are prohibited.1 General and individual import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. A limited control over exports is admin- istered by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and by the Customs and Ports Administration. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Trade and economic agreements are maintained with China, Cyprus, Egypt, Hungary, Italy, Jordan, Mo- rocco, Thailand, and Turkey. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open accounts in Kuwaiti dinars and foreign currencies. The use of such accounts is not restricted. aln addition, all imports from these countries and all exports to them are prohibited; payments may not be made to them or be received from them for any type of transaction. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all commercial imports other than fresh fruits and vegetables; li- censes, except for wheat and flour, are issued freely to registered Kuwaiti merchants and companies. Registered importers handling a variety of com- modities may obtain a general license valid for one year. Other importers must obtain specific licenses for individual commodities, which are also valid for one year. Imports of industrial equipment, machin- ery, and their spare parts require industrial licenses, valid for onetime use. Licenses are issued to regis- tered and licensed industrial establishments af ter the approval of the Industrial Development Com- mission at the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Private imports of personal objects may be permit- ted under individual or specific licenses. The impor- tation of certain items (mainly oxygen, certain steel and asbestos pipes, pork and foods tuffs containing pork, alcoholic beverages, used vehicles over five years old, portable telephones, chewing tobacco, and gas cylinders) is prohibited. Commercial imports are limited to registered im- porters. To be registered, the importer must be ei- ther a Kuwaiti citizen or a firm in which all partners are Kuwaiti nationals, or a shareholding or limited liability company in which Kuwaiti nationals own at least 51 percent of the stock. Imports from any per- mitted source may be paid freely. In concert with the other member states of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) (Bahrain, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emir- ates), Kuwait adopted a uniform tariff structure on September 1,1983. In line with the GCC Ministerial Council Resolution adopted on May 18-19, 1983, a minimum tariff of 4 percent was fixed on imports from non-GCC states; tariffs on imports from other GCC countries, which have a local value-added component of at least 40 percent, were abolished. On March 14, 1991, the tariff rate was reduced to zero for a transitional period of six months to en- courage imports of goods into Kuwait for postwar reconstruction. On December 29, 1991, this exemp- tion was extended through March 1992. In August 1985, in line with a GCC resolution, Kuwait adopted a system of preferential tar iffs al- lowing industries catering to at least 40 percent of the local market to apply for tariff protection. Tariff rates differ, depending on the domestic value- added content of the products in question. If the 279 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 280 KUWAIT domestically produced goods contain at least 20 percent, 30 percent, or 40 percent of domestic value added, protective duties of 15 percent, 20 per- cent, and 25 percent, respectively, may be applied. The degree of protection given by the formula is reduced by 5 percent in the case of consumer goods. In 1985, tariffs of between 15 percent and 25 percent were applied to such products as gypsum, portland cement, fiberglass, paper products, biscuits, glass bottles, and linens. During 1986, customs tar iffs continued to be used for the protection of domestically produced goods; in this context, the list of items receiving similar tariff protection was expanded to include paint, building materials, reinforced glass products, com- mercial refrigeration units, central air-conditioning units with a capacity of 20-25 tons, electric and telephone cables, and synthetic sponges. In 1987, the tariffs on steel and iron that had been removed in 1986 were reinstated. During 1989, import tariffs were imposed on air filters for automobiles (25 per- cent) and on wooden nails (15 percent); moreover, tariff protection on a number of other items was extended. Imports of portable telephones, chewing tobacco, and gas cylinders were prohibited for health or safety reasons. In line with a resolution of the November 1986 session of the GCC, Kuwait adopted a priority system for government procure- ment of goods and services, which provides for preference to be accorded to Kuwaiti-produced goods up to a price margin of 5 percent over goods produced in the other GCC states and 10 percent over goods produced outside the GCC. Similarly, goods produced in the other GCC states are ac- corded a 5 percent price margin over goods pro- duced outside the GCC. In total, 58 items receive tariff protection from the Government. The maximum duty that may be im- posed on products that compete with locally man- ufactured goods is 100 percent. As a general rule, protection is accorded to a firm only if the value added is more than 40 percent. Imports are subject to customs duties at a minimum rate of 4 percent. Imports of foods tuffs as well as some industrial establishments' imports of machinery and equip- ment, spare parts, and raw materials are exempt from import duties. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of live sheep and poultry and of certain other items (such as sugar, fats, rice, meat, eggs, milk, cheese, butter, olive oil, fresh fruits, vegeta- bles in any form, beans, lentils, chick-peas, jams, and cement) may be prohibited in time of emer- gency or shortage in Kuwait. These items may be exported in limited quantities only, under a special license issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Exports of arms and ammunition require licenses. Licenses are not required for other exports or re-exports. No requirements are attached to re- ceipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All payments for current invisibles may be made freely. Travelers may bring in or take out any amount in Kuwaiti or other bank notes. Capital There are no exchange controls or restrictions on the transfer to Kuwait of resident or nonresident capital in any currency. Government agreement is necessary for the participation of nonresident capi- tal in resident corporations in Kuwait; at least 51 percent of ownership of new Kuwaiti companies must be held by nationals. Beginning in 1983, the participation of nationals of GCC countries in com- panies established in Kuwait may reach up to 75 percent of the capital. In January 1985, the Minis- try of Commerce and Industry resolved, in line with a GCC resolution, to eliminate restrictions regard- ing non-Kuwaiti participation in retail trade enter- prises by GCC nationals as of March 1987. However, import-licensing restrictions for non-Kuwaitis were to remain in effect for GCC nationals. No restric- tions are imposed on outward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents. Dealings in domestic or foreign stocks in the official Kuwait Stock Exchange are subject to the approval of the Exchange Commit- tee. Besides the approved domestic stocks, trading is permitted in certain stocks of companies of the GCC countries, but dealings are restricted to Kuwaiti citizens. The listing of Kuwaiti dinar- denominated bonds in the Exchange is subject to the approval of the Exchange Committee. At the end of 1986,26 Kuwaiti dinar bonds were listed, and foreigners were permitted to buy and sell these bonds in the Exchange. Gold The monetary authorities and merchants registered with the Ministry of Commerce and Industry may import and export gold in any form, provided that such gold is not less than 18-karat fine; gold jewelry may not be imported or sold unless it is properly hallmarked. Kuwaiti nationals may freely, and with- out license, purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT 281 at home or abroad. Other residents may, on arrival or departure, carry their holdings of gold in any form, without restriction or license. Jewelry and precious metals in any form, manufactured or unmanufac- tured, are subject to an import duty of 4 percent. Changes During 1991 Capital March 24. A limit of KD 4,000 a month was placed on withdrawals from accounts at local banks to transfer into foreign currency. Exemptions to this limit were allowed for import payments, interest payments or other foreign obligations, profit trans- fers of foreign companies, transfers of the diplo- matic community, and medical and educational ex- penses. This control would expire at the end of June 1991. July 1. The limit on withdrawals and transfers from local banks was raised to KD 6,000 from KD 4,000 a month. Exemptions to this limit re- mained unchanged. August 3. All limits on withdrawals and transfers from local banks were abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Lao People's Democratic Re- public is the Kip (KN). The exchange rates are set by the Bank of the Lao People's Democratic Republic (the central bank). On December 31, 1991, the offi- cial exchange rate for the U.S. dollar quoted by the central bank was KN 711.0 per US$1 buying and KN 712.0 per US$1 selling; these rates are used for all transactions. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, based on the cross rates for these currencies in relation to the U.S. dollar. Foreign exchange bureaus are permitted to buy and sell foreign exchange at freely deter- mined rates, provided that the spread between the buying and selling rate remains less than 2 percent. Foreign exchange may be sold by the bureaus for payments for authorized imports and payments for services within authorized limits. There are no ar- rangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control The Bank for Foreign Trade (BCEL), which was a subsidiary of the central bank until it became inde- pendent on November 1, 1989, handles all official foreign exchange transactions related to foreign trade and services. All other official transactions are handled by the central bank, which also adminis- ters exchange controls. The Ministry of Commerce grants import and export authorization to state trad- ing companies, mixed companies (joint ventures between domestic enterprises and foreign inves- tors), cooperatives, and public enterprises. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are im- posed on receipts or payments, but, in principle, the central bank provides and accepts only deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds ster- ling, Swiss francs, Thai baht, and U.S. dollars. The Lao People's Democratic Republic has bilateral trad- ing arrangements with Bulgaria, Cambodia, Czech- oslovakia, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Viet Nam, and the former U.S.S.R. These are multiyear trad- ing arrangements and are implemented through Deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds ster- ling, Swiss francs, and Thai baht. annual protocols that specify imports and exports in volume terms and shadow prices (expressed in rubles). Except for trading arrangements with the former U.S.S.R., all others are on a purely counter- trade basis. If balances exist at the end of a given year, agreement must be reached with the partner country to settle the balance during the first quarter of the following year. In principle, balances have to be settled through trade transactions. Under the trading arrangement with the former U.S.S.R., the import value of the Lao People's Democratic Re- public may not exceed its export value by more than 200 percent. Trade deficits, up to a maximum limit specified at the outset of the year under the agree- ment with the former U.S.S.R., are converted into long-term loans at the end of each year. Imports and Import Payments Imports and exports may be made by any regis- tered export-import business. These consist of state trading companies, joint-venture trade companies, and private trade companies. Such businesses are categorized as either enterprises producing mainly for export, for import substitution only, for general multi-commodity, export-import, or for export pro- motion. Imports are classified into the following nine categories: food and food products; textile gar- ments and daily supplies; office supplies, school instruments, sports equipment, and cultural instru- ments; machines and agricultural, livestock, fish- ing, and handicraft equipment; luxury goods; mate- rials for construction and electrical products and equipment; vehicles and spare parts; medicine, medical equipment, and chemical products for manufacturing; and fue l. Enterprises that are pro- ducing import substitutes are only allowed to im- port products from the last four categories. Import licenses, which are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and provincial government au- thorities, are required only for a select number of goods and are no longer linked to the ability to export. The goods requiring import licenses are motorcycles, cars, rice, petroleum products, ce- ment, steel, and imported products competitive with domestically produced goods of high quality. These goods are also subject to individual enter- prise quota restrictions. The rates of margin de- posits required against letters of credit are deter- mined by the BCEL on a case-by-case basis. 282 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 283 Payments for Invisibles Payments for all invisibles are subject to prior authorization from the Ministry of Commerce. Payments for invisibles related to authorized im- ports are not restricted. Up to the equivalent of $2,000 may be provided for travel purposes; for higher amounts, authorization from the Ministry of Commerce is required. In practice, there are no restrictions on remittances of profits earned by for- eign investors. Exports and Export Proceeds Export-import businesses that produce mainly for export are restricted to the exportation of wood and wood products, and rattan and bamboo prod- ucts; coffee and tea; and mineral products. At pres- ent, the public sector has a monopoly only on the exportation of logs. Only the Societe du commerce lao (SCL), provincial trading companies, and spe- cially authorized public enterprises can export these goods. Export licenses, which are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and provincial government authorities, are required only for timber, wood products, coffee, rattan, and cattle. These goods are also subject to individual enterprise quota restric- tions. All other goods may be freely exported by the private sector. Export quotas on logs (separately on high-quality logs and sawn timber) have been in effect since March 1989. Exports of gold and silver are prohibited, except when made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. In practice, export earnings are not required to be surrendered; they may be kept in foreign exchange deposits with the BCEL (to pay for authorized im- ports of goods and services, to make payments in foreign currency by check for domestic purposes, and to make cash withdrawals in kip). Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are, in practice, treated in the same way as foreign exchange earnings accru- ing from merchandise exports. Capital Outward capital transfers by residents are not permitted. Although not yet officially approved, the Foreign Investment Law regulating inward foreign capital transfers, profit remittances, and the re- patriation of foreign investment capital is being ap- plied. This law imposes no restrictions on these transactions. Residents are allowed to maintain for- eign currency deposits with authorized commercial banks; these deposits may be credited with receipts from exports of goods and services, transfers from abroad, and cash. Gold Residents may buy and sell gold within the coun- try but may not take it abroad unless authorized by the BCEL. Changes During 1991 Exports and Export Proceeds August 1. Exports of all timber were prohibited. September 10. The ban on all timber exports was lifted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Lebanon is the Lebanese Pound. The authorities do not maintain margins in respect of foreign exchange transactions, and exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market. How- ever, the authorities may announce buying or sell- ing rates for certain currencies and intervene when necessary in order to maintain orderly conditions in the foreign exchange market. On December 31, 1991, the rate for the U.S. dollar was LL 879 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The duties and taxes on goods and services on amounts invoiced or ex- pressed in foreign currencies are calculated from a conversion rate of US$1 = LL 800 for motor vehicles and alcoholic beverages and of US$1 = LL 200 for other goods and services. Banks are allowed to en- gage in spot transactions in any currency. However, they are prohibited from engaging in forward trans- actions exceeding LL 500,000 unless such transac- tions are related to foreign trade. Prescription of Currency No restrictions are imposed on exchange pay- ments abroad or receipts in Lebanon. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few goods (mainly arms and am- munition, narcotics, and similar products) are ei- ther prohibited or reserved for the Government. All imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Imports prohibited year round include wheat— which, in principle, may be imported only by the Government —citrus fruits, apples, olives (exclud- ing olives in cans weighing less than 2 kilograms), olive oil, and peanuts; imports prohibited during a specified period of the year include squash, egg- plant, green beans, watermelons, peas, peaches, and apricots. Imports of certain other agricultural products and all seeds require a license. Import licenses are also required for certain finished goods, sanitary ceramic wares, insulated electric and tele- phone wires, and copper cables. All other com- modities may be imported freely without a license. Foreign exchange to pay for imports may be ob- tained freely. Banks are obliged to ensure that importers pos- sess a valid import license, if required, before is- suing letters of credit. Importers must place with their banks a prior deposit in a local currency amount equivalent to 15 percent of the value of import letters of credit; the banks are not required to deposit such amounts with the Bank of Lebanon. A municipality tax of 3.5 percent is levied on the value of all goods imported, except those originat- ing in an Arab country. A stamp tax is applicable to all imports, except gold and bank notes, at the rate of LL 3 per LL 1,000 of the value of goods. The tariff regime is based on the Brussels Tariff Nomencla- ture. Ad valorem duty rates on most products range from 18 percent to 90 percent and are applied on a most-favored-nation basis, except for certain im- ports from member countries of the European Com- munity (EC) and Arab countries, which are ac- corded a preferential rate. A few products are subject to a specific duty. A surcharge of 10 percent of the applicable import duty is levied on specified textiles and garments. Surcharges are also levied on motor vehicles, imitation jewelry, watches, and al- coholic beverages. The surcharge on motor vehicles is levied at the following rates: 35 percent for vehi- cles with values of LL 10 million or less, and 60 per- cent for vehicles with values of over LL 10 million. The rate of surcharge on watches and imitation jewelry is 7 percent. The following rates of sur- charge apply to alcoholic beverages: beer, LL 140 per 100 liters; champagne, 60 percent of the value; wine and arak, 20 percent of the value; and whisky, 30 percent of the value. An additional construction tax of 11 percent and a municipality tax plus an internal tax ranging from LL 2.5 to LL 9.5 a liter are also imposed on champagne, wine, liqueurs, and whisky. A tax of 60 percent is imposed on other beverages. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invis- ibles. Foreign exchange may be obtained in the free market. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain goods (mainly arms and am- munition, narcotics, and similar products) to any destination and all exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Exports of wheat and wheat deriva- tives to any country, and all exports to the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea require a license. 284 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON 255 Foreign exchange receipts from exports may be re- tained, used, or sold in the free market. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles may be retained, used, or sold in the free market. Capital There are no limitations on capital payments or receipts. Foreign exchange may be obtained or sold in the free market. Banks are prohibited from ex- tending to nonresidents loans in Lebanese pounds and loans secured by guarantees from nonresident banks unless such transactions are for commercial or investment purposes in Lebanon. Banks are pro- hibited from receiving deposits, or opening ac- counts in Lebanese pounds, for nonresident banks and financial institutions. Bank credit in Lebanese pounds to residents for the purchase of foreign exchange for purposes other than foreign trade transactions is subject to a special reserve require- ment; the required reserve amounts to 40 percent of Lebanese pound loans that give rise directly to for- eign currency deposits, and 15 percent of foreign currency deposits directly arising from Lebanese pound loans to depositors. Banks are authorized to maintain long or short net foreign currency posi- tions up to 15 percent of the amount of their capital. However, banks can hold long net foreign currency positions equal to the amount of increases in capital effected after June 1, 1985 and to the general re- serves established after the end of 1985. The nounts of investments in foreign currencies in nonresident banks and financial institutions are not included in net foreign currency positions. Invest- ments in nonresident banks and other foreign in- stitutions are exempt from the net foreign currency positions. Under a "free zone" banking facility, the commercial banks are exempt from reserve require- ments and fees for deposit insurance in respect of foreign currency deposits by nonresidents. Also, nonresidents are exempt from the 10 percent tax on interest earnings from foreign currency deposits. Under the National Investment Insurance Scheme, new foreign investments are insured against losses arising from noncivil risks, including war. Compensation is paid on losses exceeding 10 percent of the insured value. Gold Residents may free ly hold gold in any fo rm at home or abroad and may free ly negotiate gold in any fo rm with residents and nonresidents, at home or abroad. The importation and exportation of gold in any form are free ly permitted and do not require a license but must be officially recorded. The importation, exportation, and domestic sale of foreign gold coins must be covered by a certifi- cate, issued by the Office for the Protection of the Consumer, which indicates the gold content and weight. Changes During 1991 Prescription of Currency December 31. The bilateral payments agreement with Poland expired (and was not renewed). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Lesotho is the Loti (plural Ma- loti), which is pegged to the South African rand at M 1 per R 1. Under the Common Monetary Area (CMA) Agreement, the rand is also legal tender in Lesotho. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1991, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were M 2.7405 and M 2.7415, respectively, per US$1. Authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange operations. They undertake such operations through their correspondent banks abroad on rates quoted by the latter. Forward exchange cover is not, however, common in Lesotho. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Under the "financial rand" system, local sales proceeds of CMA securities and other investments owned by non-CMA residents cannot be trans- ferred in foreign currency, but must be retained in the form of financial rand balances. These balances are transferable among nonresidents at a freely de- termined exchange rate and may be used to pur- chase securities (quoted and unquoted) and to fi- nance investments in new firms and certain properties. There are no forward cover arrange- ments for exchange transactions in the financial rand market. Exchange Control Territory Lesotho forms part of the CMA, which is an ex- change control territory comprising Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland. The amended Trilateral Monetary Agreement among these four countries became effective on April 1, 1986. No restrictions are applied to payments within the CMA, which are uncontrolled and unrecorded except for statistical and customs purposes. In its relations with countries outside the CMA, Lesotho applies exchange controls that are largely similar to those of South Africa and Swaziland. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Lesotho (CBL) controls exter- nal currency transactions. Authority to approve cer- tain types of current payments is delegated to com- mercial banks up to established limits. Lesotho's trade-licensing arrangements are designed mainly to raise revenue and prevent tax evasion; permits are issued by the Department of Customs and Ex- cise af ter recommendation from the Department of Trade and Industry. Licenses for financial institu- tions and insurance agents are issued by the CBL. Imports and Import Payments Lesotho is a member of the Southern African Customs Union with Botswana, Namibia, South Af- rica, and Swaziland, and there are no restrictions on imports originating in any country of the customs union. Imports from countries outside the customs union are usually licensed in conformity with South Africa's import regulations; Lesotho reserves the right to restrict certain imports. A wide range of imports from outside the customs union are subject to surcharges ranging from zero to 60 percent. Im- port permits are valid for all countries and entitle the holder to buy the foreign exchange required to make payments for imports from outside the customs union. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licensing for reve- nue purposes; this requirement, in practice, is re- stricted to the exportation of diamonds. Most ex- ports are shipped without license to or through South Africa. Unless otherwise permitted, all ex- port proceeds must be remitted to Lesotho and surrendered within six months of the date of the export transaction. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transac- tions, although subject to control, are not normally restricted. Authority to approve some types of cur- rent payments up to established limits has been delegated to authorized dealers. The basic annual exchange allowance for tourist travel to neighboring countries outside the CMA area —Malawi, Mozam- bique, Zambia, and Zimbabwe—is M 5,500 an adult and M 2,750 a child; the corresponding annual al- lowance for tourist travel to other countries outside the CMA region is M 17,000 and M 8,500, respec- tively. For business travel to neighboring countries outside the CMA region, the basic annual allowance is M 11,000 a person at rates not exceeding M 800 a day; the corresponding limits for business travel to other countries are M 25,000 and M 1,500, respec- tively. Higher allowances may be obtained for travel for business and medical treatment purposes. Emi- grant allowances may be transferred through the 286 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO 287 financial rand market, up to M 200,000 a family or up to M 100,000 a person. The maximum amount of earnings on blocked assets that emigrants are al- lowed to transfer through normal banking channels is M 300,000 a year. Any excess may be transferred only through the financial rand system. Capital Inward capital transfers should be properly docu- mented to facilitate the subsequent repatriation of interest, dividends, profits, and other income. No person may borrow foreign currency or register shares in the name of a nonresident, or act as a nominee for a nonresident, without prior approval. Applications for outward transfers of capital are considered on their merits. The rulings on applica- tions for inward and outward capital transfers may depend on whether the applicant is a temporary resident foreign national, a nonresident, or a resi- dent. Certain tax incentives for inward direct invest- ment are provided to manufacturing undertakings approved by the Pioneer Industries Board under the Pioneer Industries Encouragement Act, 1969. Funds in blocked maloti accounts may be invested in quoted securities and other such investments that may be approved by the CBL. The free transfer of income from an emigrant's blocked assets is limited to an annual maximum of M 300,000 a family unit. The transfer by nonresidents of dividends and profits from investments held in Lesotho is not re- stricted, provided they were not obtained through excessive use of local borrowing facilities. An emi- grant family or an individual may export one auto- mobile only, with a maximum value of M 75,000, provided that the automobile was purchased at least one year before emigration. The limit on settling-in allowances that immi- grants are permitted to transfer through the "finan- cial rand" mechanism is M 500,000 a family and M 250,000 a person (unmarried). Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell any gold coins that are legal tender. Changes During 1991 Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles September 30. The basic annual exchange al- lowance for tourist travel to neighboring countries outside the CMA area (Malawi, Mozambique, Zam- bia, and Zimbabwe) was increased to M 5,500 an adult (M 2,750 a child), and that for tourist travel to other countries outside the CMA area was in- creased to M 17,000 an adult (M 8,500 a child). The business travel allowance to neighboring countries outside the CMA area was increased to M 11,000 a person at rates not exceeding M 800 a day; the corresponding limits for business travel to other countries were increased to M 25,000 and M 1,500, respectively. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Liberia is the Liberian Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar at $1 per US$1. There is no official intervention. The currency of the United States is legal tender in Liberia and circulates along with Liberian coins and the $5 note.1 There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangemen ts for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Export- and import-licensing regulations are ad- ministered by the Ministry of Commerce and In- dustry. Arrears are maintained with respect to ex- ternal payments. imports from South Africa are prohibited. The Li- berian National Petroleum Company (LNPC) no longer has the exclusive right to import petroleum products; all eligible importers may import them, provided that they obtain an Import Declaration form from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Licenses to import inexpensive, widely consumed varieties of rice are issued to private distributors by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The impor- tation of more expensive rice is not subject to official controls. A surtax of 10 percent is levied on a range of imports. Preshipment inspection of imports is required to ascertain the country of origin, the quality, the quantity, and the value of all goods to be shipped to Liberia. Both final and intermediate goods are sub- ject to inspection, except for imports with an f .o .b. value of less than $3,000. Prescription of Currency Exports and Export Proceeds Some exporters must pay withholding taxes and corporate income taxes in U.S. dollars. Hotels are required to receive payments f rom foreign guests in foreign exchange. Settlements with the Central Bank of West A f r ican States (for Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made th rough the West A f r ican Clearing House. Imports and Import Payments There is no general system of import control, but the importation of some items is subject to licensing and quantitative restrictions. These items include safety matches, electrode welding rods, and lique- fied petroleum gas. Imports of arms and ammuni- tion and explosives require prior licenses. In addi- tion, imports of certain goods (for example, narcotics other than for medicinal purposes) and all 1U.S. dollar notes, which used to form the major portion of the currency in circulation, have almost totally disappeared from circulation. Full convertibility between the Liberian dollar and the U.S. dollar at par does not, de facto, exist, and the U.S. dollar attracts a substantial premium in large parallel market transac- tions, and commercial banks charge abnormally high commis- sions for their sales of offshore funds. Foreign exchange dealers other than banks are permitted to buy and sell currencies other than the U.S. dollar at market-determined exchange rates. Exports to South Afr ica are prohibited. Export licenses are at present required for elephant tusks and ivory, wild animals, cement, agricultural produc ts other than rubber, flour, and sugar, and certain other items, such as arms and ammunition and explosives. Licenses are generally issued freely; they serve mainly to enforce the 25 percent surrender of export proceeds and taxation or, for agr icu l tural produc ts, to assure certification of quality and origin. In August 1988, a regulation requiring that wood produc ts for exportation must have a local processing content of at least 5 percent was enacted. The required local content was raised to 10 percent in 1990. Exporters are required to surrender 25 percent of export pro- ceeds to the National Bank of Liberia through the commercial banks; this requirement is not strictly enforced. The Government and the National Bank of Liberia receive priority for the purchase of this foreign exchange. That portion of the foreign ex- change surrender that is not purchased by the public sector is then made available to commercial banks at par. An export tax at the rate of 15 percent a troy ounce is levied on diamonds. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no governmental limitations on pay- ments for or receipts from invisibles. 288 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA 289 Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents. Under the Investment Incentive Code of 1966 (as amended in 1973), enterprises undertaking new investment projects may be granted a five-year, 90 percent duty exemption on imports of raw mate- rials and machinery, total tax exemption on rein- vested profits, a 50 percent exemption on distributa- ble profits, and a protective tariff on competing imported products. The five-year incentive may be renewed for a fur ther two-year period in certain circumstances. Most mining, logging, and rubber enterprises, however, operate under special conces- sion agreements that provide for tax concessions for a period ranging up to 70 years. Gold Imports and exports of gold in any form are sub- ject to licenses issued by the Ministry of Land, Mines, and Energy; import licenses are issued freely, but export licenses are granted restrictively. Changes During 1991 Imports and Import Payments March 1. The monopoly right of the LNPC to import petroleum produc ts was eliminated, and all eligible importers were allowed to import them, provided that they obtain an Import Permit Declaration f rom the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Accounts The currency of the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya (Libya) is the Libyan Dinar, which is pegged to the SDR at the rate of LD 1.00 = SDR 2.80. Margins not exceeding 7.5 percent are allowed around this fixed relationship, and the dinar has been depreciated to the maximum extent permitted within those margins to LD 1.00 = SDR 2.60465. Buying and selling rates of the Libyan dinar in terms of 16 currencies1 are based on their exchange rates vis-a-vis the SDR, as communicated by the IMF. The middle rate for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at the end of December 31, 1991 was LD 0.268399 per US$1. The Central Bank of Libya deals with commercial banks only in pounds sterling and U.S. dollars. The commercial banks are permitted to buy or sell other currencies against pounds sterling and U.S. dollars through their foreign correspondents. The banks may not deal among themselves in for- eign currencies. Neither authorized banks nor im- porters or exporters are allowed to enter into for- ward commitments in foreign currencies. Since 1985, fees have been levied on outward foreign ex- change transfers for the purpose of financing the Great Man-Made River Project. These fees have re- sulted in a deviation between the official exchange rate and the effective rate applied to these transfers of more than 2 percent. There are no other taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank, which has delegated some of its powers to the authorized banks. Policy relating to imports and exports is determined by the Popular Congresses and executed by the General People's Committee for the Economy and Foreign Trade. Prescription of Currency Settlements with other countries are made in con- vertible currencies, usually U.S. dollars or pounds sterling. All settlements with Israel and South Af- rica are prohibited. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Tunisian dinars, and U.S. dollars. A nonresident, as defined by the Central Bank, who is gainfully employed in the country is permit- ted under the exchange control regulations to open and maintain a nonresident account in Libyan dinars with any authorized bank. Legitimate earn- ings of such nonresidents can be credited to their nonresident accounts. All other credits to nonresi- dent accounts require the prior approval of the Cen- tral Bank. (For debits of such accounts, see section on Payments for Invisibles, below.) Funds brought in by nonresident contractors un- dertaking contracts in their own names must be kept with an authorized bank. Payments received by contractors in respect of their contracts may also be credited to these accounts. Remittances from these accounts are subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank after submission of the prescribed evidence, but, in general, remittance is permitted up to the net-of-tax amount specified in the contract. Nonresident-owned capital that is not permit- ted to be t rans fe r red abroad is credited to blocked accounts. With the approval of the Central Bank, f u n ds in blocked accounts (with certain excep- tions) may be used for expenditures in Libya, up to LD 500 a year, to cover the cost of visits by the owner of the funds or a close relative; for payment of legal fees and taxes; for rem i t tances to the owner of the funds in his coun try of permanent residence (up to LD 1,000 in a calendar year); and for remittances in cases of hardsh ip. When the funds have been in a blocked account for five years, they qualify, upon payment of due taxes, for rem i t tance in fu ll to the owner in his coun try of permanent residence. The blocked accounts of persons (with certain exceptions) who have left the country permanently are being released in installments; balances credited before March 31, 1966 have been released. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Imports included in the annual commodity budget are undertaken exclusively by state-owned enterprises without license. Importers are required to deal directly with producers abroad and not through intermediaries. However, imports not in- cluded in the annual commodity budget are subject 290 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA 291 to licensing. Resident firms undertaking develop- ment projects may import needed items that are not included in the annual commodity budget and not available locally, and foreign exchange to pay for these imports is provided by the Government; simi- lar imports by nonresidents, however, must be fi- nanced with foreign exchange resources from abroad. There is a prohibited import list, consisting mainly of consumer and luxury goods.2 Only gov- ernment agencies may act as commercial agents, including import agents, for foreign companies. A state-owned company controlled by the Central Bank has a monopoly over the importation of gold and precious metals. Under Decision No. 248 of Jan- uary 1989, import trade by private companies and partnerships has been permitted. With the excep- tion of strategic goods3 retained by public corpora- tions, all other goods may be imported by either public or private entities within the provisions of the annual commodity budget. With certain exceptions, all exchange permits re- quire central bank approval. Exchange permits re- quired for imports are readily granted by the autho- rized banks following central bank approval, provided that there is a firm contract and an import license has been obtained from the Secretariat of Planning for Economy and, if the import is to be made on a letter-of-credit basis, that a marine insur- ance policy from a local insurance company is sub- mitted before the letter of credit is established. However, an authorized bank may not open a letter of credit without an advanced import deposit equal to at least 20 percent of the value of the import. Importers must present to the bank granting the exchange permit, within two months of customs clearance, a customs declaration confirming clear- ance and stating the valuation. The approval of the Exchange Control Department of the Central Bank is required for all payments by residents. Imports are subject to customs duties and customs surcharges, the latter consisting of 10 per- cent of the applicable customs duty. All products originating in Arab countries are exempted from customs duties, provided that their domestic value added exceeds 43 percent. Private individuals are allowed to import goods on the commodity budget list up to a maximum value of LD 3,000 from Arab countries. 2These include mineral water, f ru it juices, instant tea, certain types of coffee, green vegetables, poultry, preserved meats and vegetables, alcoholic beverages, peanuts, oriental rugs, soaps, envelopes, crystal chandeliers, toy guns, luxury cars, and fu r s. 3These are nine essential food items, medicine, milk, meat, insecticides, petroleum products, tobacco, and gold. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized im- ports are not restricted. Remittances from nonresident accounts main- tained by nonresident workers and technicians may be approved by authorized banks up to limits spec- ified below: (1) nonresidents employed by the state, state-owned enterprises, and foreign companies may remit up to 50 percent of their net salaries each month if their contracts do not specify that lodging, board, or both will be made available free of charge by the employer, or up to 75 percent of net salary if their contracts specify that both lodging and board at work sites in remote areas will be made available free of charge by the employer in accordance with applicable Libyan laws and regulations; (2) nonre- sidents employed by the Libyan private sector are subject to the following limits: (a) agricultural and unskilled may remit up to 50 percent of their net salaries up to a maximum of LD 40 a month; and (b) others may remit up to 50 percent of their net salaries without monthly limit. In general, nonresi- dents may not transfer income derived from over- time work. Staff of UN agencies, embassies, consul- ates, and medical institutions are exempt from these regulations. Banks may issue traveler's checks and foreign currency notes to nonresident workers and technicians within the limits mentioned. Residents leaving for personal travel abroad, in- cluding tourist travel, may, in addition, take out foreign exchange in the form of foreign currency notes, traveler's checks, and letters of credit not exceeding a total value of LD 300 (LD 150 for chil- dren between the ages of 10 and 18) in a calendar year as a basic travel allowance; the exchange may be obtained from any authorized bank in Libya. Addi- tional amounts may be granted in special circum- stances. Pilgrims to Saudi Arabia are entitled to a special quota. Temporary residents may take out any traveler's checks or foreign currency notes that they had previously brought in and declared to customs. Travelers leaving Libya may not take out Libyan currency. All other payments for invisibles, as well as pay- ments in excess of the approval authority delegated to the banks, require the prior approval of the Cen- tral Bank. Applications are considered on their merits. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for fish, raw wool, hides and skins, and agricultural products. Export proceeds must be received through an authorized bank within six months of shipment. Exports of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 292 SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA nonmonetary gold (other than for processing abroad) and scrap metals are prohibited; exports or re-exports of wheat, wheat flour, crushed wheat, barley, rice, tea, sugar, tomato paste, and macaroni, which are subsidized commodities, are also pro- hibited. Exports of vegetable oils are permitted if they are domestically produced. All exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. The Export Promo- tion Council established under Decision No. 523 of September 1988 helps exporters to enter foreign markets by providing information on demand con- ditions abroad and on potential exports. Also, as an incentive to export, exporters are allowed to retain up to 40 percent of foreign exchange earnings in a special account that may be used to finance imports of raw materials, spare parts, and machinery needed for export production. Exporters do not need an export license for these exports but must register with the council and supply, on a regular basis, the relevant documentation on their exports. Proceeds from Invisibles All foreign exchange receipts must be surren- dered. Traveler's checks or foreign currency notes may be encashed only at an authorized bank, an exchange office, or a hotel licensed by the Central Bank. Travelers entering the country may bring with them traveler's checks, letters of credit, securities, coupons, and other negotiable instruments in un- limited amounts, which they must declare to customs. Foreign exchange converted into Libyan dinars by visiting tourists may be reconverted upon departure, with the exception of a minimum local expenditure of $50 for each day spent in the country. Capital Under the provisions of Foreign Capital Invest- ment Law No. 37 of July 31, 1968, foreign capital invested in p ro jec ts deemed to contribute to the economic development of the country, as well as prof i ts thereon, may be t rans fe r red free ly to the coun try of origin, provided that the pa id-up capi- tal is not less than LD 200,000 and that at least 51 percent of the shares are held by foreign na- tionals. Salaries of foreign s ta ff employed on such pro jec ts may be t rans fe r red on the basis described above in the section on Payments for Invisibles. Central bank approval is required and custom- arily granted free ly for all such t rans fe rs. Foreign participation in industrial ventures set up a f ter March 20, 1970 is perm i t ted on a minority basis but only if it leads to increased production in ex- cess of local requirements, introduction of the latest technology, and cooperation with foreign f irms in exporting the surplus production. Insur- ance companies and foreign shareholdings in banks have been nationalized. Real estate may be owned in Libya only by Lib- yans. Nonresident-owned capital that is not permit- ted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Residents must obtain the prior approval of the Central Bank to borrow funds abroad. As a rule, residents must have prior permission from the Committee of the People's Bureau for Foreign Af- fairs and International Economic Cooperation to purchase real estate abroad or to invest abroad in securities. The investment of national capital abroad is governed by Law No. 25 of April 20,1973. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form other than bars. The Central Bank imports processed and unprocessed gold and pre- cious metals; it also sells gold bars to domestic gold- smiths for manufacture at prices announced from time to time. The gold is processed before it may be sold to the public. Unworked gold is subject to an import duty of 15 percent. Changes During 1991 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Madagascar is the Malagasy Franc. The exchange rate for the Malagasy franc is managed flexibly with reference to a basket of sev- eral currencies. The weight assigned to each cur- rency in the basket is based on the distribution of Madagascar's trade during 1973-80. There is no sin- gle intervention currency, although the majority of transactions take place in French francs and U.S. dollars. In accordance with the movement in the basket, the Central Bank of Madagascar (CBM) adjusts the Malagasy franc exchange rates on a daily basis against ten currencies,1 which it quotes. The authorized banks are not permitted to maintain an exchange position in any foreign currency, although they may hold trade bills as foreign assets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of for- eign exchange. There are no arrangements for for- ward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. On December 31, 1991, the midpoint rate for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Central Bank of Madagas- car was FMG 1,883.6. per US$1. Administration of Control All countries other than Madagascar are consid- ered foreign countries, and financial relations with all foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Control Office of the Directorate of the Treasury, which also supervises borrowing and lending abroad by residents, the issue, sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Madagascar, all outward in- vestments, and inward direct investment. Some of the approval authority for exchange control has been delegated to authorized intermediaries, and all exchange transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be effected through such intermediaries. With the extensive use of the Liberalized Imports System (SILI) for all imports, effective July 1, 1988, all economic agents are allowed to import and re- ceive the total amount of foreign exchange re- quested at the prevailing exchange rate. However, a list of imports, which currently includes 59 customs nomenclatures, is subject to administrative control, mainly for security and health reasons. Since Sep- 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. tember 1, 1988, private operators and state trading companies have been authorized to export, with the exception of vanilla, to any market at prices freely negotiated by exporters and importers. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through authorized intermediaries, which may deal with the Central Bank of Madagascar in any of the quoted currencies. A bilateral payments agreement is maintained with Mauritius. Nonresident Accounts The principal type of nonresident account is the foreign account in Malagasy francs. Such accounts may be debited and credited only for transactions between nonresidents and for explicitly authorized transactions between residents and nonresidents. When Malagasy francs accruing to a nonresident are not eligible for credit to a foreign account, they must be credited to a special blocked account, bal- ances of which may be used by the holder for per- sonal expenses in Madagascar, subject to a limit of FMG 20,000 a day for the account holder and FMG 10,000 a day for each accompanying family member. Any other operation requires prior ap- proval from the Ministry of Finance. Transactions between enterprises in the free trade zone and resi- dents are conducted through the enterprises' for- eign accounts in Malagasy francs. These enterprises are also permitted to maintain foreign exchange accounts with local banks, which are required to transfer to the CBM foreign exchange credited by the enterprises to their foreign accounts. Imports and Import Payments Under the SILI, which was introduced on Feb- ruary 1, 1988 and extended to all imports on July 1, 1988, all economic agents that are listed in the Trade Register and are in good standing legally and with the tax administration may import and receive the total amount of foreign currency requested at the prevailing exchange rate. Import licenses are not required for imports financed with foreign ex- change that has been surrendered to the CBM, and all administrative formalities are handled by the banks through which the import transactions are effected. No restrictions of any kind apply to the opening of credit or the means of financing imports; 293 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 294 MADAGASCAR importers may use their own resources, borrow from the banking system, or avail themselves of external loans, including suppliers' credits, to fi- nance imports. The temporary requirement under the SILI that importers set aside provisions in local currency covering the full amount of their imports was abolished on May 10, 1988, and each commer- cial bank is free to decide on the desirability of requiring such a provision, on the basis of its finan- cial evaluation of importers. In accordance with Notice (Avis) No. 10-MC/DGCE of January 21,1988, amended by Revision No. 123-MC/DGCE of April 26, 1989, all import prohibitions have been lifted, except on 59 items in the customs nomencla- ture, mainly for health and security reasons. On January 1, 1988, the authorities introduced the first stage of a comprehensive tariff reform that replaced quantitative import restrictions with a sim- plified system of 16 rates (multiples of 5), with the minimum rate set at 5 percent and the maximum at 80 percent, with a temporary surcharge of 30 per- cent on certain products aimed at facilitating the transition. All imports except those for which ex- emptions were granted in accordance with interna- tional treaties were made subject to a minimum rate of 5 percent, on a collection basis. In the second stage of the reform, which took effect on January 1, 1989, the tariffs tended to be harmonized at the four-digit level; the minimum tariff rate was raised to 10 percent, except on certain products, namely, fertilizers, pesticides, pharmaceutical products and inputs, and optical glass. In addition, the Govern- ment reduced certain tariffs and the temporary sur- charge, which was lowered to 10 percent from 30 percent and suspended entirely for meats and edible organs. On January 1, 1990, the 10 percent temporary surcharge was eliminated, and the max- imum tariff rate of 80 percent was applied to prod- ucts previously subject to the surcharge. In 1991, the maximum tariff rate was reduced to 60 percent for all categories of merchandise. The Finance Law of 1991 lowered the maximum tariff rate even fur- ther, to 50 percent, for a large number of products. The third stage of the reform, scheduled for 1992, will relate mainly to the classification of imported goods into five categories, which will be taxed at rates of 10 percent to 50 percent. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require prior approval from the Ministry of Finance, which has delegated approval authority to the Directorate of the Treasury and to authorized intermediaries, either up to spec- ified limits or for any amount that is properly docu- mented. Payments for invisibles related to autho- rized imports are not restricted, except for agency fees (commissions de representations), the settlement of which is subject to the submission of a contract previously approved by the Minister of Finance (Treasury Directorate). Residents may purchase foreign exchange for tourism subject to an annual limit equivalent to FMG 10,000 a person for every two-year period, irrespective of the number of trips taken (FMG 5,000 for children under 15 years). Any foreign exchange remaining after return to Madagascar must be sur- rendered. The foreign exchange allowance for busi- ness travel is the equivalent of FMG 50,000 a person irrespective of the number of trips made. Autho- rized banks may not sell foreign bank notes in ex- cess of the equivalent of FMG 20,000 a person a trip for tourist travel. Applications for additional amounts must be submitted to the Ministry of Fi- nance. Applications for additional foreign exchange may be approved for bona fide business trips and for medical treatment abroad, but not for tourism. Al- locations for different types of travel may not be combined without the prior approval of the Direc- torate of the Treasury. There are limits for educational expenses and cer- tain other current invisibles. The transfers of divi- dends and profits to nonresident shareholders who are natural or juridical persons are fully liberalized under the terms of the Investment Code and the Industrial Free Trade Zone. However, under the common law (droit commun), dividends payable to these stockholders are immediately transferable at 100 percent in the case of industrial enterprises and at only 75 percent for commercial enterprises. The transfer of savings from wages and salaries earned by a foreigner working in Madagascar is permitted, upon presentation of his work contract and employ- ment permit, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. The amounts allowed are up to 35 percent of the net salary for bachelors and persons whose families are in Madagascar, and up to 60 percent for those whose families live outside Madagascar (100 per- cent for both categories during leave spent outside Madagascar); in all cases, the transferable amount may not exceed the equivalent of FMG 6,000 a per- son a month or its equivalent. This ceiling does not apply to expatriates working in enterprises that are operating under the Investment Code (Code d'inves- tissement). Remittances for medical treatment abroad are permitted when properly documented. Resident and nonresident travelers to foreign countries may take out up to FMG 25,000 in Mal- agasy bank notes. Nonresident travelers may take out any remaining foreign bank notes and coins and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR 295 other foreign means of payment declared by them on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds On September 1, 1988, a new export law was enacted, whereby all exporters listed in the Trade Register who are in good standing and have no tax obligations in arrears can freely export their prod- ucts, except vanilla, at prices negotiated directly between exporters and importers. Furthermore, the requirement of quality control or certification of ex- portable goods by the Government has been abol- ished for a number of products and is now limited to only four: vanilla, coffee, seafood, and meat. Cer- tificates of quality on exports of cloves have also been abolished. Mining products are covered by a special arrangement under the mining law. Quality control is limited to a quality or sanitary inspection certificate from the competent government agency or, at the option of the exporter, an internationally recognized specialized private company. For vanilla and coffee, the control is effected at the level of stocks and not at the time of embarkation. For sea- food and meat, the certificate of origin and quality standard must be included in the documents for embarkation in the absence of an arrangement di- rectly agreed upon by the importer and exporter in conformity with international agreements. Since the 1990/91 crop year, all coffee producers have been permitted to freely negotiate and execute export contracts. Apart from Madagascar's interna- tional commitments under the International Coffee Organization, there was no prior authorization re- quirement or other administrative restriction on cof- fee exports by economic agents. During this period, a reference price, established by the National Coffee Trading Committee on the basis of international data and updated weekly, was used as the basis for calculating taxes on exports and for determining the amount of foreign exchange to be repatriated. Export proceeds must be repatriated within 90 days of the date of shipment unless an exemption is granted by the Ministry of Finance and surrendered to the CBM through authorized banks. Forty per- cent of surrendered foreign exchange is transferred immediately to the CBM, and balances not utilized within 72 hours are also required to be transferred to the CBM. Export proceeds of enterprises operat- ing in the free trade zone must be repatriated within a maximum of 190 days of the date of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income or proceeds accruing in those countries or from nonresidents must be repatriated within one month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency as means of payment and up to FMG 25,000 in Malagasy bank notes. Capital Capital movements between Madagascar and for- eign countries and between residents and nonresi- dents are subject to prior authorization from the Ministry of Finance. Special controls are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct invest- ment and all outward investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Madagascar. Foreign direct investments in Madagascar, in- cluding those made by companies in Madagascar that are directly or indirectly under foreign control, and those made by branches or subsidiaries of for- eign companies in Madagascar, and the corre- sponding transfers require prior approval from the Minister of Finance (the Directorate of the Trea- sury). Foreign direct investments abroad by Mal- agasy nationals, including those made through for- eign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons resident in Madagascar and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies located in Madagascar, are subject to prior authorization from the Ministry of Finance. The total or partial liquidation of such investments must be declared to the Ministry of Finance. Both the making and the liquidation of direct invest- ments, whether these are Malagasy investments abroad or foreign investments in Madagascar, must be reported to the minister within 20 days of each transaction. Participation that does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company is not consid- ered direct investment. Proceeds from the liquida- tion of foreign investment may be repatriated with the prior authorization of the Minister of Finance. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Madagascar requires prior au- thorization from the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization are operations in connection with shares similar to securities whose issuing or offering for sale in Madagascar has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by natural or juridi- cal persons, whether public or private, requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance, although loans contracted by authorized banks or credit institutions with special legal status are ex- empt. Enterprises in the free trade zone are permit- ted to contract and service foreign loans freely, and interest and amortization payments on foreign loans contracted directly by these companies are not ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 296 MADAGASCAR restricted. Lending abroad is subject to authoriza- tion by the Minister of Finance. In accordance with the Investment Code of De- cember 29, 1989 (Law No. 89026), enterprises bene- fiting from preferential treatment under the code are granted an exemption from import taxes exceed- ing 10 percent on materials used in the production process. Enterprises operating in the industrial free trade zone established on December 29, 1989 may import these materials free of duty and tax. Gold The purchase of gold in the country from holders of valid gold-mining titles or from authorized holders of gold-washing rights is carried out by "ap- proved collectors" acting in their own name and on their own account. The price of gold may be set freely by buyers and sellers. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization from the Ministry of Commerce after review by the Directorate of Energy and Mines. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the CBM, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured arti- cles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Travelers are au- thorized to export 50 grams or 250 karats of gold jewelry or gold articles a person, and 50 grams or 250 karats of numismatic items a person. Imports of gold, whether licensed or exempt from license, are subject to customs declaration. The holder of a valid gold-mining title, or the holder of a gold-washing permit or rights, is free to sell the gold he has re- covered to any approved collector of his choice. However, Malagasy authorities, represented by the Central Bank of Madagascar or its agents, may ex- ercise their right of pre-emption with regard to the purchase of gold produced in the country. Changes During 1991 Exports and Export Proceeds October 1. Proceeds from exports were subject to the 100 percent surrender requirement. Authorized banks were required to transfer immediately 40 per- cent of surrendered foreign exchange to the CBM, and any balances not utilized within 72 hours were also required to be transferred to the CBM. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Malawi is the Malawi Kwacha, which is pegged to a basket of currencies based on the geographical composition of Malawi's trade and the invoicing currencies in Malawi's foreign ex- change transactions. The middle rate of the Malawi kwacha for the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, quoted by the Reserve Bank of Malawi (RBM) is determined on the basis of the daily calculations of the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar in terms of the SDR. On December 31,1991, the RDM's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were MK 2.6337 and MK 2.6603, respectively, per US$1. It also quotes buying and selling rates for the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, the South African rand, the Swiss franc, the Zambian kwacha, and the Zim- babwe dollar, which are determined on the basis of the appropriate daily cross rates as communicated by the IMF. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the RBM under the authority delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. Import policy is formulated by the Min- istry of Trade and Industry (MTI), which is also responsible for issuing import and export licenses. Commercial banks are authorized dealers in foreign exchange. Prescription of Currency Payments to nonresidents may be made in Ma- lawi kwacha to the credit of a nonresident account maintained by the recipient or in any convertible foreign currency1 traded in Malawi. Payments from residents of other countries may be received in Ma- lawi kwacha from a nonresident account or in any convertible foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Malawi kwacha held by residents of other countries are designated nonresident ac- 1 Under Malawi's exchange control regulations, all currencies other than the Malawi kwacha are considered foreign currencies. counts. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds from sales of any convertible foreign cur- rency, with authorized payments in Malawi kwacha to foreign countries by Malawian residents, and with transfers from other nonresident accounts. Balances on these accounts may be used to make payments to residents of Malawi for any purpose and may be transferred freely to other nonresident accounts; these accounts may also be debited for payments to the account holder while he is tem- porarily resident in Malawi. Blocked accounts in Malawi kwacha are held with authorized banks by nonresidents. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior authoriza- tion of the exchange control authorities. Normally, authorization is given for the investment of balances of blocked accounts in an approved manner. On application to the exchange control authorities, ac- count holders may normally transfer the interest on blocked account balances to their country of residence. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are subject to the open general li- cense system. However, for a number of items,2 specific import licenses are required from the MTI. Goods originating in Commonwealth countries or in non-Commonwealth countries that are members of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) may be imported under an open general license. Specific import licenses are usually issued within a week of application and are normally valid for six months. To obtain foreign exchange for imports, private sector importers must file with a commercial bank an application for an import order, accompanied by pro forma invoices, including, where necessary, a specific import license. Commercial banks are au- thorized to approve, without reference to the RBM, virtually all applications to import goods with the exception of those on the negative list.3 For goods on the negative list, import order applications filed with commercial banks must be approved by the Exchange Control Department of the RBM. 2Certain agricultural and food products, new (military-type) and used clothing, gold, sugar, fertilizers, flick knives, explo- sives, armaments/ammunition, game traps, mist nets, wild ani- mals, live fish, cassava, and copyright articles. 3These include alcoholic beverages, precious stones, electrical goods, and noncommercial passenger vehicles. 297 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 298 MALAWI When imports arrive in the country and pay- ments are due, the importer must submit applica- tions for foreign currency payments. Such applica- tions must be accompanied by relevant importation and customs documents. Commercial banks may require counterpart deposits depending on means of payment (for example, letters of credit). This is a matter of banking practice and is not required by official regulations; approval of the RBM is required in the case of foreign exchange applications for pay- ment of restricted imports. Prepayment for imports is allowed, with the per- mission of the exchange control authorities. Im- porters are free to choose any method of payment, and imports may be paid for in Malawi currency to an appropriate local nonresident account or in any convertible currency. Customs tariffs on nongovernment imports are ad valorem and range from zero to 45 percent of the c . i .f. value, with a weighted average of about 21 per- cent. Government imports are exempt from customs tariffs. Imports are also subject to a surtax, which is applied on the c . i . f. value, including customs tar iffs .4 The surtax rates range from zero to 35 percent for nonluxury items, and from 55 percent to 100 percent for luxury goods. Payments for Invisibles Commercial banks are authorized to provide for- eign exchange, up to certain limits and without reference to the exchange control authorities, for certain invisible payments, for example, private travel, education, medical treatment, and family maintenance. The basic exchange allowances for private travel are MK 20 a day for an adult, with a maximum of MK 600 a calendar year; MK 200 a year for children up to 10 years of age; and MK 300 a year for children between the ages of 10 years and 18 years. Annual travel allowances are not cumulative but may be increased by up to 50 percent if the traveler has not applied for an allowance during the preceding three years; Allowances are subject to a combined maximum of MK 2,000 a year for a family traveling together. The basic exchange allowance for business travel is MK 400 a trip for any number of trips in a year. Travelers may take out, in addition to their basic travel allowance, up to MK 20 in Malawi currency and £10 or $15 in bank notes, or the equiv- alent of £10 or $15 in any other convertible foreign currency notes. Foreign exchange for payments for most other invisibles (or for amounts exceeding standard basic 4The surtax is levied on both imported and domestically pro- duced manufac tured goods. allowances such as those mentioned above) requires the prior approval of the Exchange Control Depart- ment of the RBM. Foreign nationals employed in Malawi on contracts and holding a temporary em- ployment permit are allowed to remit, subject to RBM approval, up to two thirds of their current net earnings to their country of normal residence or any country of their choice. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain commodities5 are subject to export licens- ing, mainly to ensure the adequacy of domestic supplies. Export proceeds in foreign currency must be surrendered no later than five working days af ter payment has been made to the exporter's account in a foreign bank. Minor specific duties or cesses are levied on exports of hides and skins and tobacco.6 Under a duty drawback scheme, customs tar iffs paid on imports of certain inputs used by manufac- tured exports are rebated. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any foreign currency must be sold to an authorized dealer. There is no limit on the amount of foreign currency notes and coins that travelers may import, but they may not import more than MK 20 in Malawi currency notes and coins. Capital Inward transfers of non-debt-creating capital are not restricted. The taking up of loans from abroad by residents requires prior exchange control ap- proval, which is normally granted, provided that the terms of repayment, including the servicing costs, are acceptable. Outward transfers of capital are controlled mainly for residents. Nonresidents are permitted to repatriate their investments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original investment was made with funds brought into the country. Apart from the need to obtain exchange control approval, there are no restrictions on the transfer abroad of dividends and profits of foreign- owned companies, provided that no recourse is being made to local borrowing to finance the transfer. Residents may not purchase any foreign se- curities without specific exchange control approval. Implements of war, petroleum products, nickel, atomic en- ergy materials, and certain agricultural and animal products. 6The cess on tobacco is also levied, with some exemptions, on tobacco sold locally. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI 299 In general, residents are not permitted to transfer capital abroad and, with certain exceptions, they are required to offer for sale to an authorized dealer any foreign exchange that accrues to them. Residents require prior approval to lend to nonresidents or to resident firms controlled directly or indirectly from outside Malawi. Approval to lend to nonresident- controlled firms may be withheld if it is felt there is excessive recourse to local borrowing and that a firm has brought in insufficient working capital from abroad. All applications for emigrants' allowances must be submitted to the exchange control authorities for approval. Departing persons over 50 years of age, whether single or married, are allowed to exchange the equivalent up to MK 15,000. Married persons under the age of 50 are allowed MK 6,000 on depar- ture, together with MK 500 for each child, up to a maximum of MK 8,000 for a family. Unmarried per- sons under the age of 50 years are allowed MK 3,000 on departure. The balance of the emigrant's funds is blocked, but on the anniversary of his departure date from Malawi, a sum equal to the original emi- gration allowance is permitted to be transferred to the new country of residence, up to a maximum of MK 8,000. However, at the discretion of the Ex- change Control, emigrant allowances in excess of the stipulated amount can be taken out. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Malawi for numismatic purposes. With this ex- ception, residents other than the monetary au- thorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold at home or abroad in any form other than jewelry. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Minister of Trade and Industry in consultation with the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes During 1991 Imports and Import Payments January 10. The final phase of the import liberal- ization program was implemented and, conse- quently, 98.3 percent of nonpetroleum imports (based on the composition of imports in 1984) were no longer subject to prior foreign exchange ap- proval. The remaining products still subject to the prior foreign exchange approval were included in a short and temporary negative list covering certain luxury items (principally alcoholic beverages, pre- cious stones, noncommercial passenger motor vehi- cles, and electrical goods). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Malaysia is the Ringgit. The ex- ternal value of the ringgit is determined by supply and demand conditions in the foreign exchange market. The Central Bank of Malaysia intervenes only to avoid excessive fluctuations in the value of the ringgit in relation to a basket of currencies weighted in terms of Malaysia's major trading part- ners and the currencies of settlement. Rates for all other currencies are determined on the basis of the ringgit-U.S. dollar rate and the U.S. dollar rates for those currencies in markets abroad. On Decem- ber 31, 1991, the middle rate for the U.S. dollar was M$2.7235 per US$1. The commercial banks are free to determine and quote exchange rates for all cur- rencies, other than Israeli and South African cur- rencies, to customers. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Commercial banks are permitted to deal forward in all currencies other than Israeli and South African currencies, and are free to determine the rates. For- ward exchange contracts may be in respect of both commercial and financial transactions. Forward cover for the commercial banks is provided usually for up to six months at market rates for both pur- chases and sales. However, for commercial transac- tions, the commercial banks do not provide forward cover for periods exceeding six months, and the periods depend on the requirement of each corporation. Malaysia formally accepted the obligations of Ar- ticle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from November 11, 1968. Administration of Control The Central Bank administers exchange control throughout Malaysia on behalf of the Malaysian Government, the Governor of the Bank being the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Most of the au- thority for approving payments abroad is delegated to the authorized banks. The authority for import control rests with the Royal Customs and Excise Department of the Federal Ministry of Finance. The day-to-day administration of import licensing throughout Malaysia is carried out jointly by the Ministry of Trade and Industry and other specified authorities, such as the Ministry of Primary Indus- tries, the Malaysian Timber Board, and the Veterin- ary Department, on behalf of the Royal Customs and Excise Department. Prescription of Currency All payments to countries other than Israel and South Africa may be made either in ringgit or in any currency other than Israeli and South African cur- rencies. Receipts from exports to countries other than Israel and South Africa must be obtained ac- cording to the timing of payment specified in the commercial contract, but subject to a maximum period of six months from the date of exportation, either in any foreign currency except the currencies of Israel and South Africa or in ringgit from an external account. Special rules apply to settlements with Israel and South Africa. Nonresident Accounts The accounts in ringgit of residents of countries other than Malaysia are designated as external ac- counts. There are no restrictions on debits to exter- nal accounts. Credits to these accounts for whatever purpose are freely permitted, subject only to the completion of exchange control forms for amounts above M$10,000. For amounts exceeding M$10,000, permission may be given by authorized commercial banks. The proceeds from the sale of any foreign currency may be credited to external accounts. Bal- ances in external accounts may be transferred to any other account, whether resident or nonresident, and may be converted into any currency except Israeli and South African currencies. Accounts of residents of Israel and South Africa are designated as Israeli accounts and South African accounts, re- spectively. All debits and credits to such accounts require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Tariffs and import controls of the various parts of Malaysia have been fully unified. Depending on the nature and origin of the goods, import licenses are required for certain imports as specified in Customs (Prohibition of Imports) Order 1988 for reasons of health, security, or public policy; various conditions must be satisfied before import licenses for such goods are issued. Certain other imports are subject to quantitative restrictions as a temporary measure to protect local industries. These restrictions are reviewed from time to time. Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. 300 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA 301 Imports of motor vehicles are subject to an import license with quantitative restrictions (quota). Move- ments of live animals between Peninsular Malaysia, Sabah, and Sarawak are subject to movement per- mits issued by the Veterinary Department. Imports of meat, bones, hides, skin, hooves, horns, and offal of any animal or any portion thereof from all countries require an import license. Imports of pri- mates require an import license, subject to approval from the Department of Wildlife and National Parks. Payments for permitted imports valued up to M$10,000 from any country other than Israel and South Africa may be made without restriction after exchange control requirements have been met. Pay- ments in excess of M$10,000 require completion of forms and approval from any authorized commer- cial bank. Raw materials and machinery for the manufactur- ing sector are eligible for preferential duty treat- ment as follows: (1) for the production of goods for the domestic market, raw materials that are not manufactured locally are subject to a reduced rate of customs duty of 3 percent; (2) manufacturers for the domestic market can be further exempted from this 3 percent customs duty if they comply with specific requirements in terms of equity participation, man- agement, and employment structure; (3) all raw materials for the production of goods can be consid- ered for exemption from the sales tax, subject to conditions specified in the Sales Tax Act of 1972; (4) for companies that manufacture products for the export market, full exemption from customs duty is granted when local raw materials are not available, or, if they are available, when they are not competi- tive in price or quality; (5) all customs duties and sales tax on imported machinery and equipment that are unavailable locally and are used in the man- ufacturing process can be considered for exemption; and (6) customs duties and sales tax drawback can be claimed by any manufacturer on imported raw materials or components that are incorporated in the finished products and exported within 12 months of the date the raw materials or components were imported. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Israel and South Africa may be made without re- striction after exchange control requirements have been met. There is no restriction on the amount of foreign exchange available for travel abroad. Remit- tances to nonresidents of dividends, royalties, and profits on all bona fide investments are permitted, subject only to the completion of exchange control forms for amounts in excess of M$10,000. There is no restriction on the exportation of currency notes by travelers. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Exports of 27 species of sawlogs from Peninsular Malaysia are restricted. Other than these 27 species, exports of sawlogs 30 centimeters in diameter and less are allowed. The customs areas and export con- trol systems between the three territories of Mal- aysia have been harmonized. Exchange control forms have to be completed for exports valued at more than M$20,000 f .o .b. a shipment (for exports to Indonesia, forms are not required except when exports are valued at more than M$100,000). Pro- ceeds from exports must be received according to the timing of payments specified in the commercial contract, but subject to a maximum period of six months from the date of exportation, in any foreign currency except the currencies of Israel and South Africa, or in ringgit from an external account. This regulation does not apply to commercial samples or goods exported for repair or exchange. Exports of rubber from Peninsular Malaysia require a certifi- cate issued by the Malaysian Rubber Exchange and Licensing Board. Exports of roofing tiles, bricks, minerals, rice and paddy in whatever form, milk and specified milk products, textiles, and all other goods as specified in the second schedule of Customs (Prohibition of Exports) Order 1988 of the 1967 Customs Act are subject to permits. Export incentives are provided to companies that export Malaysian products. The main incentives in- clude abatement of adjusted income for manufac- tured exports, an export allowance for agricultural products, double deduction of expenses incurred in overseas promotion, export credit financing, and duty drawbacks. Proceeds from Invisibles The exchange control authorities do not regulate exchange receipts from invisibles, but receipts from exports are subject to exchange control. No limita- tion is imposed on the importation of currency notes by travelers. Capital Inward investment covered by the guidelines is- sued on February 20,1974 (regarding the acquisition of assets, mergers, and takeovers) requires prior approval from the Foreign Investment Committee (FIC). The guidelines stipulate that the following inward investments require the approval of the FIC: (1) proposed acquisition of any substantial fixed ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 302 MALAYSIA assets by foreign interests; (2) proposed acquisition of assets or interests, mergers, and takeovers of companies and businesses in Malaysia by any means that will result in ownership or control pass- ing to foreign interests; (3) proposed acquisition of 15 percent or more of the voting power (equity inter- ests) by any foreign interest or associated group or by a foreign interest in the aggregate of 30 percent or more of the voting power of a Malaysian company or business; (4) control of Malaysian companies and businesses through any form of joint-venture agreement, management agreement, or technical assistance or other arrangement; (5) merger or take- over of any company or business in Malaysia; and (6) other proposed acquisition of assets or interests exceeding M$5 million in value. Incorporation of a Malaysian company by a for- eign interest does not require the approval of the FIC. However, increases in the paid-up capital of a Malaysian company that involves subscription by any foreign interest require the approval of the FIC under the following conditions: (1) the total price of new interest subscribed by any foreign interest ex- ceeds M$5 million; (2) the total new interest sub- scribed by any foreign interest exceeds 15 percent of the voting power in the relevant company; (3) as a result of the increase in paid-up capital, any foreign interest increases its voting power to more than 15 percent in the relevant company; (4) the total of the new interest subscribed by several foreign inter- ests increases their joint voting power to 30 percent or more of the voting power in the relevant com- pany; (5) as a result of the increase in paid-up capi- tal, the aggregate holding of several foreign inter- ests increases to 30 percent or more of the voting power in the relevant company; and (6) an increase in paid-up capital of any Malaysian company to more than M$5 million upon incorporation or the holding of foreign interest constitutes more than 15 percent of the voting power or the joint holding of several foreign interests constitutes 30 percent or more of the voting power of the company concerned. Foreign investors are permitted to hold an equity of up to 100 percent if their exports exceed 80 per- cent or more of their production. For projects that export more than 50 percent, but less than 80 per- cent, of their production, foreign equity ownership of up to 100 percent is permitted if foreign investors invest M$50 million or more in fixed assets (exclud- ing land) or implement projects that have at least 50 percent value added and the products do not compete with products currently being manufac- tured locally for the domestic market. Export sales are defined to include sales to free trade zones and manufacturing warehouses. These guidelines, however, do not apply to new projects in certain sectors, namely, metal industry, paper/plastic pack- aging products, plastic compound/masterbatch, electroplating, and heat treatment activities. How- ever, if new projects in these sectors export all of their production directly outside the country, for- eign equity participation of 100 percent is allowed. For projects that involve the extraction or exploita- tion of nonrenewable resources, majority foreign equity participation of up to 100 percent is permit- ted. To determine the percentage for these projects, various criteria (for example, level of investment, technology, risk involved, availability of Malaysian expertise in the area of exploration, the degree of integration, and level of value added involved) are taken into consideration. For new hotel and tourist projects, foreign equity ownership of up to 100 percent is allowed for five years from the date of operation, af ter which it will be reduced to 51 percent. Foreign investors in new manufacturing and inte- grated agricultural projects that cater to the domes- tic market, in cases where local participation cannot be found, are allowed to hold, subject to certain conditions, equity of up to 100 percent for a period of five years from the date of production. Af ter five years, the foreign equity ownership will be restruc- tured according to the existing foreign equity guide- lines for the manufacturing sector. Permission of the Controller of Foreign Exchange is not required for direct and portfolio investments by Malaysian residents in countries other than Is- rael and South Africa, provided that they have not obtained any domestic credit. If an investor has any domestic credit, he must obtain prior approval f rom the Central Bank for such investments. Commercial banks are not encouraged to give loans to finance investments abroad that are considered unlikely to lead to long-term benefits for the economy; such funds should be used to finance the expansion of productive capacity in Malaysia. Commercial banks are permitted to have a short or a long foreign ex- change position, ranging from M$10 million to M$150 million, based on the limit approved by the Controller of Foreign Exchange. The proceeds of investments may be repatriated freely on resale, subject to the completion of ex- change control forms for amounts above M$10,000. Nonresident-controlled companies in Malaysia are permitted to borrow up to M$10 million without exchange control approval, provided that total credit facilities obtained by the borrower in Malaysia do not exceed M$10 million, and that the borrower obtains at least 60 percent of his total domestic ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA 303 credit facilities, including trade-related facilities, from commercial banks and other financial institu- tions incorporated in Malaysia. All applications for credit facilities by nonresidents and nonresident- controlled companies to finance the acquisition of immovable property in Malaysia require the ap- proval of the Controller of Foreign Exchange. As a matter of policy, applications from nonresidents and nonresident-controlled companies to obtain any domestic financing solely for property acquisi- tion and development purposes are not approved by the Controller of Foreign Exchange. However, applications from nonresident-controlled com- panies for domestic financing to acquire or develop immovable property for productive purposes, such as manufacturing or for promoting tourism in Mal- aysia, are treated flexibly. Borrowing in foreign currencies f rom nonresi- dents is freely permitted for loans of M$l million or less, provided that the total outstanding amount owed by the borrower to nonresidents, including undrawn facilities, does not exceed the equivalent of M$l million; for amounts exceeding this limit, permission must be obtained from the Controller of Foreign Exchange, stating the main terms and con- ditions of the loan and the purpose for which the loan proceeds would be used. However, loans in foreign currencies in excess of the equivalent of M$200,000 and up to the equivalent of M$l million must be reported to the Controller of Foreign Ex- change. Foreign borrowing in ringgit of any amount requires prior approval, and such approval is nor- mally not granted. Service payments on approved foreign loans may be permitted by the commercial banks on behalf of the Controller, provided that these payments are in accordance with the ap- proved terms and conditions of the loans. Commer- cial banks and merchant banks in Malaysia can lend in foreign currency to residents and can accept de- posits in foreign currency from nonresidents. Loans in foreign currency by banks in Malaysia must be for business or productive purposes in Malaysia, in- cluding (but not exclusively) payments for the im- portation of goods and services, payments of inter- est or repayment of principal on loans from nonresidents, or payments for the purchase f rom nonresidents of immovable properties in Malaysia or stocks and shares. In addition, for the purchase of property or shares: (1) the FIC must give its ap- proval; (2) the amount borrowed must not exceed the equivalent of M$25 million; and (3) repayment of principal cannot be made with funds borrowed in ringgit from residents. Approval of the Controller is required for all other foreign currency loans. As an incentive, interest paid to nonresidents by the com- mercial banks is exempted from payment of the 20 percent withholding tax. Intercompany accounts, which exclude proceeds from the exportation of Malaysian goods and pro- ceeds from loans extended to Malaysian companies, can be maintained with associate companies out- side Malaysia, provided that monthly returns are submitted to the Controller of Foreign Exchange. In addition, companies located in free trade zones, or those that are licensed manufacturing warehouses may, with prior permission from the Controller of Foreign Exchange, be allowed to offset their export proceeds through intercompany accounts against payables to their affiliated or parent companies overseas for the supply of raw materials and components. Gold Residents of Malaysia are freely permitted to deal (that is, purchase, sell, import, export, borrow, etc.) in gold in whatever state or form with any person except residents of Israel and South Africa. Changes During 1991 Imports and Import Payments February 8. The ban on imports of steel bars was lifted temporarily until July 31, 1991. Exports and Export Proceeds March 1. An export levy of between M$60 and M$120 per cubic meter was imposed on 22 species of sawn timber. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALDIVES (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Maldives is the Maldivian Rufiyaa. Since March 1, 1987, the Maldives Mone- tary Authority (MMA) has followed a floating ex- change rate policy under which the exchange rate has been determined by demand and supply condi- tions in the market, although the MMA may inter- vene in the market when deemed appropriate. The midpoint exchange rate of the rufiyaa in terms of the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1991 was Rf 10.014 per US$1. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control There is no exchange control legislation. Trade regulations are administered by the Ministry of Trade and Industries, which also issues import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency All tourism bills must be settled in foreign cur- rency. There are no restrictions on maintaining bal- ances in foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents, and there are no restrictions on keeping foreign currency balances. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Iraq, Israel, and South Africa are prohibited. Import operations may be conducted only a f t er being registered and licensed at the Ministry of Trade and Industries. Staple com- modities (such as rice, wheat, flour, and sugar) and aviation fu el are mainly imported by the state t rad ing organization. E f fec t ive Janua ry 1,1989, all quan t i ta t ive import restrictions were abolished, and goods may be imported under an open gen- eral license (OGL) system. Licenses are issued on application. Ad valorem import duties are calcu- lated on the c . i . f. value of imports. Staple com- modities (rice, whea t, flour, and sugar), essential medicines specified by the Ministry of Health and Welfare, and textbooks specified by the Ministry of Education are exempted f rom duties; certain products imported for personal use are also ex- empted f rom duties. Du ty rates on daily neces- sities and essentials range f rom 5 percent to 20 percent; those on items that are essential for the development of domestic industries range f rom 10 percent to 25 percent; those on items that will facilitate the economic welfare of the coun try range f rom 25 percent to 35 percent; and those on items that are considered to be luxuries and to impede the development of domestic industries range f rom 35 percent to 200 percent. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invis- ibles. Travelers may take out any amount in domes- tic or foreign currency without restriction. Tourist resorts, hotels, and guest houses must pay their taxes and rent in foreign exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds Export operations may be conducted only after being registered and licensed by the Ministry of Trade and Industries. The private sector may export most items, with the exception of fresh and frozen tuna. However, fish caught in the exclusive economic zone (EEZ) may be exported with a license. Exports of black coral and tortoise shells are prohibited, except in the form of a product. An export duty is levied on am- bergris exported by a Maldivian, goods exported by a Maldivian jointly with a foreigner, and goods ex- ported by a foreigner; re-exports are exempt. Export- ers of dutiable goods are required to import goods or foreign exchange equal to the value of the goods exported, within the time period specified in the li- cense. The Government may require the exporters of nondutiable exports to import specified goods not exceeding 33 percent of the value of the goods ex- ported. However, this requirement has not been ap- plied to date. The Government earns royalties on the exportation of fish caught outside the 75-mile zone from the shore line. Proceeds from Invisibles Private sector receipts from current invisibles need not be surrendered and may be disposed of freely through the foreign exchange market. Trav- elers may bring in any amount of foreign currency without restriction. 304 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALDIVES 305 Capital Residents and nonresidents may freely import and export capital through the foreign exchange market, and residents do not require permission to maintain foreign currency accounts at home or abroad. Inward direct investment requires approval. All foreign inves- tors are required to provide at least 75 percent of their capital investment in the form of either cash or capital goods financed from outside Maldives. Transfers of profits are permitted freely. Exemption from duty and tax other than tourism tax may be granted for a period as specified by the Government. Gold Transactions in gold are not sub j e ct to r egu l a- tion. Res iden ts may f r e e ly hold and nego t ia te gold in any fo rm, at home or ab road, and the impor ta t ion and expor ta t ion of gold are not res t r ic ted. Changes During 1991 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Mali is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.02. Ex- change rates for all other currencies that are of- ficially quoted on the Paris exchange market are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currencies con- cerned. The banks levy a commission of 2.5 per mill on transfers to or f rom nonmember countries of the West African Monetary Union (WAMU), all of which must be transferred to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Foreign exchange transfers are subject to a stamp tax. Forward exchange rate cover is authorized only for import payments to be effec ted through docu- mentary credits, and cover for other means of im- port payments requires the prior authorization of the Minister of Finance and Commerce. There are no official schemes for currency swaps or guaran- teed exchange rate for external debt servicing. With the exception of measures relating to the repatriation of export proceeds, Mali's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco, and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control The Minister of Economy and Finance has the sole authority in exchange control matters, but cer- tain exchange control powers have been delegated to the BCEAO and to authorized banks. Operations under the bilateral payments agreements are han- dled by the Development Bank of Mali. Imports and exports are registered with the Directorate-General of Economic A f fa i rs in the Ministry of Economy and Finance. JThe CFA f ranc is issued by the Central Bank of West Afr ican States (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made in curren- cies and through accounts established under such agreements. Since Mali has an Operations Account with the French Treasury, settlements with France (as de- fined above), Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other member of the Operations Account Area. Settlements with all other countries with which no payments agreement is in force are usu- ally made through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Settlements with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Nonresident Accounts The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes is- sued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury is not permitted, except for BCEAO bank notes mailed directly to the BCEAO Agency in Bamako by foreign correspondents of the authorized banks; such notes may be credited to foreign accounts in francs opened by these correspondents with an autho- rized bank in Mali. Foreign accounts in francs may be debited without prior authorization with BCEAO bank notes mailed directly by authorized intermedi- aries to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments The revised trade regulations introduced in 1986 established three categories of import: (1) imports admitted freely and requiring only an import certifi- cate (Regime A); (2) imports subject to quotas and requiring an import license (Regime B); and (3) imports subject to special prohibitions for rea- sons of security, public health, etc. (Regime C). Im- ports originating in a member country of the West African Economic Community (WAEC) were sub- ject to Regime A; some products from EC (European Community) countries, such as foods tu f fs and 306 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI 307 other basic necessities, were also included in Re- gime A. Other products from the EC countries, such as luxury consumer goods and products that compete with local production, were subject to quotas under Regime B, as were all commodities from all other countries. Imports financed directly from foreign resources, for example, grants, foreign investment, or development loans, were admitted virtually freely under Regime A. Effective June 15, 1989, all import-licensing re- quirements and quotas were abolished. All imports, except those from Israel and South Africa, which are prohibited, are required only to be registered, and permits are issued automatically. A new, revised tariff regime was adopted, effec- tive February 26,1991. Under this regime, products are classified into seven categories and subject to the same rate; under the previous system, about 4,000 categories were subject to different rates. With the exception of petroleum products, tariff rates are ad valorem and based on the c . i . f. value; under the old regime, a number of taxes were levied on the basis of administrative values (valeurs mer- curiales). Petroleum products are subject to a vari- able levy, based on administrative values estab- lished with reference to prices charged by refineries in Dakar and Abidjan. Imports are subject to addi- tional taxes, ranging from 20 percent to 40 percent. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac- tion has been approved or does not require authori- zation. Transfers of income accruing to nonresi- dents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are subject to approval. For tour ist travel, residents traveling to coun- tries other than France (as defined above), Mo- naco, and the countries linked to the French Trea- sury by an Operations Account may obtain an annual exchange allocation equivalent to CFAF 250,000 a person (CFAF 125,000 for children under 10 years), which may be used on several occasions dur ing the year; any unused foreign exchange must be surrendered to an authorized in termed iary within eight days of the traveler's re tu rn to Mali. For business travel, the allocation is the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 a day, sub ject to a max imum of CFAF 250,000 a tr ip. Residents travel- ing to foreign coun tr ies may take out up to CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, or the equiv- alent in Bank of France bank notes, or bank notes issued by other countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Nonresident travelers may freely take out foreign bank notes up to the equivalent of CFAF 100,000; they may take out higher amounts only if they de- clared them upon entry. They may also take out CFAF 50,000 in BCEAO bank notes, or the equiv- alent in Bank of France bank notes, or bank notes issued by other countries linked to the French Trea- sury by an Operations Account, and any payment instruments drawn up abroad in their name. The transfer of the entire salary of a foreigner working in Mali is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period or that there is a reciprocity agreement with the foreigner's country of nationality. Remittances abroad for family maintenance, education al- lowances, and medical treatment, and transfers of profits/dividends from foreign direct investment may be made freely by authorized intermediaries upon presentation of appropriate documentation. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to foreign countries must be recorded with an authorized bank, and all export proceeds, including those originating in France and other countries linked to the French Treasury by an Oper- ations Account, must be repatriated and surren- dered within 30 days of the payment due date or within 120 days of shipment if no payment date is specified in the sales contract. All exports require only a certificate of registration. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the coun- tries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries for services and all in- come earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Opera- tions Account Area. Capital Capital movements between Mali, France (as de- fined above), Monaco, and the countries linked to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 308 MALI the French Treasury by an Operations Account are free of restrictions; capital transfers to all other countries require authorization from the Ministry of Finance and Commerce and are restricted, but capi- tal receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (in addition to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable) are main- tained over borrowing abroad, although the De- velopment Bank of Mali is exempt from these controls. The special control measures also do not apply to relations with France (as defined above) and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account. A new investment code was adopted on Jan- uary 1, 1991, which simplified procedures for for- eign and domestic investors to obtain preferential treatment with respect to domestic taxes for invest- ments that meet specific criteria on employment creation, domestic content of production, location, and value of investment. Gold Travelers may export gold jewelry and personal belongings, other than gold coins and ingots, up to a maximum weight of 500 grams. Commercial im- ports and exports of gold do not require authoriza- tion by the Ministry of Finance and Commerce but are subject to all foreign trade regulations, including bank domiciliation, customs declaration, and the obligation to repatriate export proceeds. Changes During 1991 Imports and Import Payments February 26. A new tariff regime was introduced, under which products were classified into seven categories and were subject to the same rate of duty. The rates of other import taxes were changed to range up to 30 percent. The basis of assessing duties and import taxes for all products, with the exception of petroleum products, was changed from valeurs mercuriales to the c . i .f. value. Capital February 26. A new investment code was intro- duced, simplifying procedures for foreign and do- mestic investors to obtain preferential treatment with regard to domestic taxes for investments that meet specific criteria on employment creation, do- mestic content of production, location, and value of investment. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Malta is the Maltese Lira, the external value of which is determined on the basis of a weighted basket consisting of the pound sterling, the U.S. dollar, and the European Currency Unit (ECU). The weights accorded to the currency com- ponents reflect the relative importance of the United Kingdom, the rest of Europe, and all coun- tries outside Europe in Malta's current account transactions.1 The Central Bank of Malta computes the daily exchange rate between the Maltese lira and the U.S. dollar on the basis of the latest available market quotations for the U.S. dollar in terms of the other currency components of the basket. The latest available market quotations used are normally ob- tained from the principal Asian financial centers through the Reuters Service. In dealings with the commercial banks, a spread of 0.125 percent is ap- plied on the middle rate to compute the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar and for the various other currencies quoted by the Central Bank. On December 31, 1991, the buying and selling rates for the Maltese lira in terms of the U.S. dollar in such dealings were US$3.2746 and US$3.2664, respec- tively, per Lm 1. The Central Bank also quotes daily rates for various other currencies, including the deutsche mark, the Italian lira, and the pound ster- ling, on the basis of the rate for the U.S. dollar and the cross rates for these currencies in the principal exchange markets abroad. The Central Bank's basic rate (middle rate) for the pound sterling was £ stg. 1.7485 per Lm 1. The commercial banks' rates for currencies not quoted by the Central Bank are based on the latest market rates as reported by Reu- ters. These rates are treated as provisional for large amounts and are quoted on request. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange, except that a subsidy in the form of a guaranteed exchange rate for the pound sterling is provided temporarily by the Central Bank to tour operators from the United Kingdom. The commercial banks are obliged to cover with the Central Bank any forward contracts entered into with their customers in Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and ECUs. Any forward con- tract concluded between a bank and a customer must be accompanied by a similar contract between that bank and the Central Bank. The forward facili- ties offered by the Central Bank to the commercial banks are intended to provide cover for firm con- tractual commitments for current transactions— that is, payments and receipts pertaining to mer- chandise trade and other invisible transactions. Capital transactions are excluded. The Central Bank assumes all the exchange risk entailed in its forward contracts with the commercial banks. The Central Bank also provides forward cover directly to govern- ment departments and various parastatal bodies in respect of imports. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Malta, as agent for the Minis- ter of Finance, administers exchange controls; the Director of Trade in the Ministry for Development of the Tertiary Sector administers trade controls. Ap- proval authority for the allocation of foreign ex- change for certain purposes has been delegated to the authorized banks, which may also give or renew guarantees and indemnities for any purpose, for the account of both residents and nonresidents. In the latter case, the authorized banks must hold full cash cover in external Maltese liri or foreign cur- rency or foreign securities for the duration of the guarantee. Authority to approve foreign exchange payments solely for travel purposes has also been delegated to a limited number of foreign exchange bureaus. The Central Bank is responsible for issuing licenses to operators of such agencies. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments to all countries may be made by crediting Maltese liri to an external account or in any foreign currency;2 the proceeds of exports to all countries may be received in Maltese liri held in an external account or in any foreign currency. A bilateral trade and payments agreement is maintained with the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya; outstanding balances are settled in con- vertible currencies. JFor the purpose of deriving the currency weights, investment income flows of the banking system are excluded from current account transactions. 2Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Maltese lira. 309 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 310 MALTA Nonresident Accounts Residents of all countries outside Malta may maintain with authorized banks nonresident ac- counts in Maltese liri, designated external accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with autho- rized payments to nonresidents, with transfers from other external accounts, and with the pro- ceeds f rom sales of gold or any foreign currency (including bank notes). External accounts may be debited freely for payments to residents, for trans- fers to other external accounts, for payments in cash in Malta, and for purchases of any foreign currency (including bank notes). Authorized dealers may freely open and main- tain foreign currency accounts for nonresidents. These accounts may be credited with payments in foreign currency to the account holder, with trans- fers from another foreign currency account belong- ing to a nonresident, and with interest payable on foreign currency accounts. They may be debited for payments by the account holder to residents, for transfers to other foreign currency accounts, and for transfers abroad. Subject to exchange control per- mission, companies controlled by nonresidents or residents may maintain foreign currency accounts in Malta or abroad. Imports and Import Payments Imports into Malta are classified into two categories —those that do and those that do not require a license. For the former, licenses are re- quired for items that need clearance for health, safety, security, and environmental reasons as well as for particularly sensitive items, such as wheat, flour, cakes and pastries, gold and silver filigree, furniture, and lace. For the latter, an open general license (OGL) is applied. Protective import restric- tions have either been removed or replaced by im- port levies. Imports of tinned milk (over 200 grams), sugar, salt, edible oil, frozen meat, barley, maize, and cement are still subject to state trading. It is expected, however, that trading in some of these items will be liberalized during 1992. Payments for all authorized imports may be made freely, provided that the prescription of currency regulations are complied with and that supporting documents, including the customs entry form and the related import license, where applicable, are submitted to the intermediary bank. As a form of exchange cover, and subject to exchange control approval, residents may keep foreign currency ac- counts to settle import payments; on the same basis, import payments may also be offset against export proceeds. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require the approval of the exchange control authorities, but approval au- thority for most types of payment has been dele- gated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. In any calendar year, each person is entitled to an annual travel allowance of Lm 1,000. In the case of trips of five days or less (including persons traveling abroad and returning within the same day), the allowance is set at a maximum of Lm 50 a day. In the case of trips of six days or more, the allowance cannot exceed Lm 600 a trip. Persons who do not use any of their travel allowance during a calendar year are allowed to transfer Lm 300 to the following year; this amount can be used only if the traveler avails himself of this amount in addition to the full allowance of Lm 600 (that is, a maximum of Lm 900) during the first trip of the year and if the trip is at least six days in duration. On returning to Malta, travelers must surrender any unused portion of the travel allowance, including the special extra al- lowance of Lm 300. Business travelers are allowed an exchange alloca- tion equivalent to Lm 100 a person a day, subject to a limit of Lm 2,000 a trip. Frequent business travelers may obtain a blanket six-month authorization with actual expenses reconciled every six months or upon exhaustion of the funds authorized. Expenses defrayed in advance in Malta or by credit cards in connection with overseas trips (mainly hotel accom- modation and travel) are not counted as part of the foreign exchange allowance. Requests beyond the specified limits require the exceptional considera- tion of the Central Bank. The allowance for educa- tional expenses abroad is unlimited.3 The Central Bank approves applications for allowances in excess of these amounts if it is satisfied that no illicit capital outflow is involved. Nonresident travelers may im- port any amount of foreign currency and may ex- port foreign currency up to the amount they brought in and declared to customs on entry. Following the enactment of the Expenditure Levy Act 1990, all services connected with overseas travel, excluding the price of air/sea tickets sold in Malta, are subject to a 10 percent tax. The tax is charged on the local value of funds to be exchanged into foreign currency for use overseas. Travel ser- vices provided for purposes of medical treatment, education, sport, emigration, and commercial 3For purposes of exchange allocations for travel and study, residents are defined as natural persons who are at the time living in Malta and have either lived there for at least three years or intend to continue living there for at least three years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA 311 trucking (for the importation and exportation of goods) are exempt from the tax upon application to the Central Bank. Travel services provided to gov- ernment departments are also exempt from the tax. Although the tax also covers cash gifts to overseas beneficiaries, they are exempted from the tax upon application to the Central Bank if they are made for specific philanthropic purposes. The transfer of profits, dividends, and interest from approved foreign investments requires central bank permission, which is normally given, after compliance with certain formalities. Life insurance expressed in Maltese currency may be contracted only with insurance companies that are duly li- censed as required under the Insurance Business Act, 1981. Remittances for the maintenance of de- pendents abroad are allowed on application show- ing evidence of hardship. Up to Lm 25 in Maltese notes and coins may be exported by a traveler. Exports and Export Proceeds With the exception of works of art and certain essential goods, all commodities may be exported freely. However, certain textile products for export to the European Community countries are subject to export license for administrative purposes. The proceeds of exports must be received within six months of shipment and must be surrendered within a reasonable period thereafter. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign currency notes, but, without the authorization of the Minister of Finance, importa- tion of any notes and coins that are or have been legal tender in Malta is permitted only up to Lm 50. Capital Applications for direct investment in Malta by nonresidents require the prior approval of the Cen- tral Bank with due regard given to the purpose of the investment and the potential benefits accruing to the local economy. The remittance of liquidation proceeds from such investments also requires cen- tral bank approval, which is normally granted af ter compliance with certain formalities, such as the submission of documentary evidence of the original investment. Nonresident portfolio investment in Malta is also subject to central bank approval. The Immovable Property (Acquisition by Non- residents) Act, 1974, administered by the Ministry of Finance, prohibits the acquisition of immovable property in Malta by nonresidents,4 with the excep- tion of certain special cases related mainly to eco- nomic development. Applications for the acquisi- tion of property for use as a residence by individuals who do not already hold property in Malta are given favorable consideration. Purchases of personal real estate situated outside Malta require prior central bank approval. All transfers abroad of a capital nature by resi- dents require central bank approval. Applications for direct investment overseas are considered on their own merits. Portfolio investment abroad by residents is permitted by the Central Bank under certain conditions: the resident must be over 18 and must not invest more than Lm 1,000 a year. A tax of 10 percent is levied on such investments under the provisions of the Expenditure Levy Act 1990. The tax is also levied on transfers of investments from one resident to another. Certain transfers are, how- ever, exempted from the tax upon application to the Central Bank; these include the conversion of one type of investment to another by the same resident, the transfer of an investment from one direct mem- ber of a family to another, and the transfer of an investment as a result of death. The transfer of an investment between a local bank and a resident, which is covered by a special permit issued by the Central Bank, is also exempt. Capital receipts repatriated by residents either have to be surrendered to an authorized bank for conversion into domestic currency or held in the form of an interest-earning foreign currency ac- count with an authorized bank. Residents must in- form the Central Bank of these transactions. Although applications by residents to purchase real estate abroad are not normally permitted, the Central Bank considers each case on its own merits. Residents are, however, allowed to switch financial investments, already held overseas with the per- mission of the Central Bank, into real estate assets situated outside Malta. Foreign nationals who reside in Malta and decide to take up residence elsewhere are normally allowed to transfer all of their assets to their new country of residence. Maltese nationals who emigrate may transfer abroad up to the equivalent of Lm 15,000 a family; any excess amount is normally released over 4For the purposes of this act, the term nonresidents means (1) individuals who are not residents of Malta but excluding Maltese citizens living abroad or foreign spouses of citizens of Malta; and (2) any association of persons, or any entity, whether corporate or not, if (a) it is registered outside Malta, (b) it has its principal place of residence or business outside Malta, (c) 25 per- cent or more of its shares or other capital is owned by a nonresi- dent person, or (d) it is in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, controlled by one or more nonresident persons. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 312 MALTA a period of three years in three equal installments after the date of departure on application to the Central Bank. Banks, other than those licensed to borrow and lend only outside Malta, are restricted in the acquisition of net foreign assets. Gold Malta has issued 23 denominations of gold coins, which are legal tender. Residents are allowed to hold coins and to acquire jewelry, but they require the permission of the Central Bank to purchase and sell any gold coins that are not legal tender. The importation of gold coins is controlled to ensure that such coins are genuinely for numismatic purposes. A specific import license is required for the importa- tion of gold coins, gold bullion, and manufactured and semimanufactured articles of gold; imports of filigree work of gold and silver are restricted. Sub- ject to exchange control permission, authorized im- porters may import gold bullion only to supply jew- elers and other industrial users. The exportation of gold by residents other than the monetary au- thorities also requires exchange control permission. Gold bullion and gold coins are free of import duty. Changes During 1991 Prescription of Currency June 1. The bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria and Poland were terminated. July 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Czechoslovakia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mauritania is the Mauritanian Ouguiya. The exchange rate for the ouguiya is deter- mined on the basis of a basket of currencies compris- ing the Belgian franc, the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Italian lira, the Spanish peseta, and the U.S. dollar. The relative weights assigned to these currencies are based on the currencies7 relative impor- tance in Mauritania's total exchange transactions and are revised from time to time. The opening spot rates of the currencies in the basket against the U.S. dollar on the Paris exchange market are used to determine the ouguiya's daily exchange rate against the U.S. dol- lar. Daily exchange rates for 17 other currencies,1 including the currencies used in the basket, are ob- tained from the daily reference rate for the U.S. dollar and the cross rates for these currencies in the Paris exchange market. On December 31, 1991, the mid- point exchange rate of the ouguiya in terms of the U.S. dollar was UM 77.82 per US$1. Commissions of 0.75 percent are applied to pur- chases and sales through commercial bank ac- counts, and commissions of 1.75 percent are ap- plied to purchases and sales involving traveler's checks and foreign currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. A quarterly average exchange rate is applied for foreign clearing transactions of the Postal Admin- istration. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Cen- tral Bank, the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and the Ministry of Commerce. The Central Bank has delegated to authorized banks the power to conduct transactions through convertible ouguiya accounts that have been approved by the Central Bank. The Central Bank is authorized to obtain any information necessary to compile balance of pay- ments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through au- 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Moroccan dirhams, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. thorized banks or, in some cases, through the Postal Administration. All imports require exchange con- trol approval from the Central Bank. Special re- gimes apply to imports by government entities and state enterprises. A tax of 0.5 percent, levied on international trade to finance the collection of statis- tics, was doubled to 1 percent in early 1991. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Settlements with other countries usu- ally take place in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are two kinds of nonresident accounts: con- vertible ouguiya accounts and convertible foreign currency accounts. Convertible ouguiya accounts may be credited only with transfers from other con- vertible ouguiya accounts, with 15 percent of the repatriated proceeds from fish exports through the Mauritanian Fish Marketing Company, and with 25 percent of the repatriated proceeds from exports by qualifying enterprises. These accounts may be debited in foreign currency only for expenses relat- ing to exporters' production activities. Convertible foreign currency accounts may be credited only with proceeds from the SEile of foreign currency and transfers from other convertible foreign currency accounts; they may be debited for any payment without central bank approval, but payments and withdrawals from these accounts may not be made in foreign bank notes without the prior approval of the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited, and imports of a few goods are prohibited for reasons of health or public policy. Only holders of importer-exporter cards or holders of special au- thorizations from the Ministry of Commerce are permitted to engage in import transactions. Prepay- ment of the minimum turnover tax in the amount of UM 300,000 is necessary to obtain the card. Imports of all goods must receive foreign exchange approval from the Central Bank. The National Import-Export Corporation has a monopoly over imports of sugar, rice, and green tea. Import transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank, except for imports directly 313 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 314 MAURITANIA financed from abroad. After the foreign exchange transaction has been approved by the Central Bank, the importer is entitled to purchase the necessary foreign exchange but not earlier than ten days be- fore shipment if a documentary credit is opened, or eight days before the payment is due if the goods have already arrived. Advance payments for im- ports require the prior approval of the Central Bank. The Central Bank authorizes only the payment of import bills quoting c. & f. prices, and all imports must be insured with the Mauritanian State Insur- ance and Reinsurance Company. There are special arrangements for imports in border areas. With the introduction in 1991 of the third phase of the tariff reform introduced in 1989, the general customs duty rate was lowered to 15 percent. A reduced rate of 5 percent applies to selected goods. Certain capital goods and various consumer goods, such as tea, salt, and medicines, are exempt. All imports from the West African Economic Com- munity (WAEC) that are not subject to the regional cooperation tax are also exempt, as are some im- ports from Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia, and the EC. In addition to the customs duty, import taxes are levied at rates ranging from 5 percent to 166 percent (with various exemptions); a turnover tax on im- ports (TCA) is levied at a minimum rate of 10 per- cent and a maximum rate of 20 percent (with various exemptions); a regional cooperation tax is levied on certain industrial products imported from WAEC countries in lieu of import duties that are levied on other imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Payments for invisibles to other countries must be approved by the Central Bank. Basic exchange allocations have been established for various types of invisibles. For tourist travel, residents may obtain an annual exchange allocation equivalent to UM 20,000 a person (UM 5,000 for children under 10 years). For business travel, the allocations are the equivalent of UM 50,000 a person a trip to African countries, UM 90,000 to Europe, and UM 120,000 to other destinations; annual limits range from UM 100,000 to UM 800,000, depending on the applicant's business turnover. Bona fide re- quests for higher amounts for travel may be granted on a case-by-case basis. The use of all travel alloca- tions must be marked in a personal travel exchange booklet. Foreigners working in Mauritania may transfer savings from their salaries up to varying percentages, according to marital status. At the end of their stay in Mauritania, they may transfer all their assets abroad. Travelers are not allowed to take out domestic bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Only holders of importer-exporter cards are permitted to engage in export transactions. Export transactions to all countries in excess of UM 5,000 must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Export- ers must sign an undertaking to repatriate and sur- render foreign exchange proceeds. Exports to all countries require authorization and endorsement by the Central Bank. Export proceeds must be surren- dered not later than the due date of the receipt, which normally must not be more than 60 days after the date of shipment. Exports of iron ore are the monopoly of the National Industrial and Mining Company, and a special exemption applies to the repatriation of its export proceeds. Exports of demersal fish are the monopoly of the Mauritanian Fish Marketing Com- pany. Certain enterprises are allowed to retain 25 per- cent of export proceeds on foreign exchange accounts maintained at domestic banks. A tax is levied on exports of fish and crustaceans, at rates ranging from 8 percent to 20 percent for specialized fisheries, and at a rate of 5 percent for shrimp and lobster. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles must be surrendered. All amounts due from nonresidents in respect of services and all income earned abroad from foreign assets must be collected and surren- dered within four months of the due date of the payment. The importation of domestic bank notes by travelers is prohibited. Capital Transfers of capital between Mauritania and Israel and between Mauritania and South Africa are pro- hibited. Capital movements between Mauritania and all foreign countries are subject to exchange control; capital transfers to all countries require exchange con- trol approval and are restricted, but capital receipts normally are permitted freely, although the subse- quent investment of the funds in Mauritania may require approval, as indicated below. All investments abroad by residents require prior authorization by the Central Bank. Foreign direct investments in Mauritania2 and Mauritanian direct including those made by companies in Mauritania that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Mauritania. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA 315 investments abroad3 must be declared to the Cen- tral Bank before they are made. The Central Bank has the right to request the postponement of the projects within 15 days of receipt of the declaration. The full or partial liquidation of inward or outward investment also requires a declaration. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether Mauritanian investments abroad or for- eign investments in Mauritania, must be reported to the Central Bank within 20 days of each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments im- plying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Mauritania requires prior au- thorization from the Central Bank, as does borrow- ing by residents from nonresidents. The Investment Code of January 23, 1989 provides for various benefits for private invest- ments in Mauritania and stipulates that profits and dividends accruing from such investment can be transferred freely. 3Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Mauritania and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Mauritania. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Mauritania. All imports and exports of gold require prior authorization from the Central Bank. Exempt from this requirement are imports and exports by the Central Bank and man- ufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Changes During 1991 Imports and Import Payments February 2. A number of changes to taxes on inter- national trade were introduced in the 1991 budget. These included (1) the introduction of the third phase of the customs tariff reform introduced in 1989, which reduced the customs duty rate to 15 percent from 120 percent; (2) the introduction of a 5 percent warehouse tax on imports; (3) a change in the tax on fish exports (which lowered the tax rate on high-value species to 5 percent); and (4) a doubling to 1 percent of the statistical tax levied on interna- tional trade. Exports and Export Proceeds February 2. A tax was levied on exports of fish and crustaceans, at rates ranging from 8 percent to 20 percent for specialized fisheries, and at a rate of 5 percent for shrimp and lobster. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mauritius is the Mauritian Rupee, the external value of which is determined on the basis of its relationship to a weighted basket of currencies of Mauritius's major trading partners. Buying and selling rates for foreign currencies are quoted by the Bank of Mauritius (central bank) with asymmetrical margins, amounting to 0.125 percent (buying) and 0.25 percent (selling) in respect of exchange transactions in pounds sterling and U.S. dollars, and 0.1875 percent (buying) and 0.25 percent (selling) in respect of exchange transac- tions in French francs, using rates obtained on the basis of the fixed peg to the basket of currencies. On December 31, 1991, the buying and selling rates of the Bank of Mauritius (telegraphic) were Mau Rs 27.6669 and Mau Rs 27.7708, respectively, per £ stg. 1; Mau Rs 14.7753 and Mau Rs 14.8309, respectively, per US$1; and Mau Rs 2.8492 and Mau Rs 2.8617, respectively, per F 1. Commercial banks are authorized to deal in French francs, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars at rates based on those quoted by the Bank of Mauritius for these currencies. Spreads allowed be- tween buying and selling rates of the commercial banks for transactions by telegraphic transfers are up to 1 percent for transactions in pounds sterling, 1.25 percent for U.S. dollars, 1.6 percent for French francs, 2.25 percent for Japanese yen and Swiss francs, and 2.375 percent for deutsche mark. Com- mercial banks' buying and selling rates for other foreign currencies1 are determined on the basis of appropriate cross rates in the London market and the cost of forward cover in appropriate cases. A transfer tax of 15 percent is applied to most authorized outward transfers of capital (other than banking funds, repatriation of approved foreign in- vestments, and placement of working balances of companies operating in Mauritius abroad or in off- shore banks), and a duty of 15 percent applies, under certain conditions, to purchases of gold coins and gold bullion. Forward exchange facilities in pounds sterling, French francs, and U.S. dollars are made available by the Bank of Mauritius for industries operating in the export processing zone (EPZ) and for banks engaged in foreign borrowing for onlending to the aThe exchange control regulations of Mauritius define foreign currencies as all currencies other than the Mauritian rupee. sugar sector. The maximum period for forward cover is six months; the forward rates are based on a uniform margin of 3 percent a year. In addition, companies operating in the EPZ and other Mauri- tian exporters and traders dealing in priority im- ports are authorized to engage in forward cover transactions in foreign exchange markets abroad through their banks in Mauritius. Companies oper- ating in the EPZ and the service zone and certain other companies are authorized to maintain with local commercial banks accounts denominated in foreign currencies. They may retain the foreign cur- rency proceeds from exports in foreign currency accounts for a reasonable period of time to meet payments for their imports. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Mauritius under powers delegated to it by the Fi- nancial Secretary. Commercial banks, as agents of the Bank of Mauritius, are authorized to approve and effect payments for current transactions. The Ministry of Trade and Shipping is responsible for issuing import and export permits, where required. Prescription of Currency Payments to nonresidents may be made in Mauri- tian rupees from a nonresident account or in any convertible foreign currency. Similarly, payments from nonresidents may be received in Mauritian rupees from a nonresident account or in any con- vertible foreign currency. Mauritius maintains a bi- lateral payments agreement with Madagascar. Resident and Nonresident Accounts External accounts may be opened by residents and firms of other countries and may be credited with (1) authorized payments by residents of Mauritius, (2) any transfers from other external ac- counts, and (3) the proceeds of sales to an autho- rized dealer of any convertible foreign currency by nonresidents. These accounts may be debited for (1) any payment to residents of Mauritius, (2) any transfers to other external accounts, and (3) the cost of purchase of any convertible foreign currency or gold. The "Nonresident (External Account) Scheme/7 reintroduced on September 25, 1985, is intended to provide Mauritians abroad with incen- tives to transfer their savings to Mauritius and to 316 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS 317 open accounts with commercial banks in Mauritius in rupees in the form of savings or fixed deposit accounts and in designated foreign currencies in the form of term deposits with a minimum period of one year. Interest on such deposits is exempted from income tax. As long as they are abroad, holders of such accounts are free to transfer at any time balances held therein, together with interest. The Bank of Mauritius bears any related exchange risk involved in maintaining accounts in designated foreign currencies. In addition to the above, there are also blocked accounts to which are credited funds owned by persons and firms resident outside Mauritius and realized from investments made by them before April 5, 1966, as well as funds representing emi- grants' assets in excess of Mau Rs 500,000. Such accounts may be credited with payments by resi- dents of Mauritius that have been specifically autho- rized for credit to a blocked account and may be debited for certain specified transactions. Funds from blocked accounts may, with approval, be in- vested in Mauritius. Upon the realization of such investments, the proceeds are directed once more to a blocked account. Imports and Import Payments Importers must be licensed under the Licenses Ordinance. Under the Supplies (Control of Imports) Regulations of 1982, all imports other than goods exempted or prohibited, as specified in the third and fourth schedules, respectively, require import permits from the Ministry of Trade and Shipping; the permits are essentially for statistical and tax purposes. Commercial banks are authorized to ap- prove and transfer funds for import payments with- out limit. Certain imports are subject to customs surcharges; a duty of 17 percent based on the c . i . f. value is levied on most imports. Local commercial banks are discouraged from extending credit for imports of goods of lower priority. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to imports are per- mitted without restriction. Foreign exchange for for- eign travel and gift remittances may be provided up to specified limits by the commercial banks without prior reference to the central bank. The basic per- sonal travel allowance is the foreign exchange equiv- alent of Mau Rs 200,000 a person for every two calendar years for travel to any country. The central bank applies these rules flexibly and approves bona fide applications for expenditures exceeding this amount. There are no limits for business travel. Residents may hold international credit cards and use them for paying travel expenses abroad. When a credit card is used, approved travel allowances may be exceeded, subject to the payment of a charge of 15 percent; the charge will be exempt, however, if the traveler provides documentary proof to the cen- tral bank that the expenses exceeding the approved limits represented bona fide travel expenses. A 10 percent tax, together with a surcharge of 10 per- cent thereon, is levied on all air tickets purchased by Mauritian residents for international travel. There are established limits for payments and transfers in respect of family support, salary remittances by non-Mauritian nationals, gifts, trade commissions, subscriptions to clubs and societies, publishing rights, advertising outside Mauritius, royalties, professional and technical services, education, and leave salaries. Applications for amounts exceeding the standard allocations may be granted by the ex- change control authorities. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out Mau Rs 350 in domestic currency. Resident travelers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount of their travel allowance. Nonresident trav- elers may take out any foreign currency they de- clared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of (1) articles made wholly or partially of gold, platinum, or silver; (2) diamonds, precious and semiprecious stones, pearls, and articles mounted with these; and (3) works of art are pro- hibited, unless permission is obtained from the Bank of Mauritius. All exports valued at more than Mau Rs 1,000 and all exports of food products val- ued at more than Mau Rs 50 require an export per- mit from the Ministry of Trade and Shipping. Ex- ports of certain foods tuffs, including fruits, are controlled. The Mauritius Sugar Syndicate is the sole exporter of sugar. No tax is levied on the first 3,000 tons of sugar exports; for exports exceeding 3,000 tons, a uniform tax of 18.75 percent is levied. All export proceeds in any currency other than Mauritian rupees must be repatriated within six months of shipment and offered for sale to an au- thorized dealer. However, permission may be given to large export-import companies to retain export proceeds for a reasonable period of time to meet payments for imports. Exports to Canada and the United States of knit shirts and sweaters of cotton, wool, and man-made fibers are effected under bilateral export restraint agreements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 318 MAURITIUS Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any currency other than Mauritian rupees must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes and coins that may be imported, but travelers may not import more than Mau Rs 700 in domestic currency notes and coins. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted. Out- ward transfers of capital are subject to certain re- strictions. Nonbank residents of Mauritius may, subject to permission, transfer a reasonable amount of capital to any country on payment of a 15 percent transfer tax. Nonresidents also require permission to transfer capital to any country; such transfers are subject to a 15 percent transfer tax. Foreign-owned companies may freely transfer abroad dividends, profits, and interest on capital. Permission for re- patriation of capital is not granted for capital brought in before April 5, 1966, irrespective of the country of origin. Proceeds from the sale, liquida- tion, etc., of foreign capital that may not be repatri- ated must be credited to blocked accounts. How- ever, permission for repatriation of capital is normally given for capital brought in on or af ter April 5, 1966. Repatriation of capital by foreign in- vestors is tax free up to the amount of the original investment. All capital gains are blocked. The blocked funds may, however, be released either for transfer abroad against payment of the 15 percent duty, or for investment in Mauritius without pay- ment of the duty. Legislation permitting the establishment of off- shore banking facilities came into force on Jan- uary 1, 1989. Emigrants may take out, at the official rate of exchange and free of duty, the equivalent of Mau Rs 500,000 a family from their Mauritian assets when emigrating to any country; this facility is available upon redesignation as a nonresident, which occurs upon departure. The balance of an emigrant's funds must be credited to a blocked ac- count; any releases that may be approved for trans- fer abroad are subject to payment of the 15 percent duty. Persons emigrating from Mauritius are not entitled to draw their personal travel allowance in addition to the emigration facilities. However, they are entitled to foreign exchange allowances of up to the equivalent of £ stg. 200 a person to cover inci- dental expenses to be incurred in connection with travel to their new country of residence. Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities are permitted to hold gold for numismatic purposes (gold coins of Mau Rs 100, Mau Rs 250, Mau Rs 500, and Mau Rs 1,000, and such commemorative gold coins as Mau Rs 200 and Mau Rs 1,000) or as per- sonal jewelry and ornaments. The importation and exportation of monetary gold are prohibited, except by the monetary authorities. Imports of gold for industrial purposes are subject to a specific import permit. Exports of articles made wholly or partially of gold, other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler, are prohibited. Payments in respect of private imports of gold coins and gold bullion are subject to the 15 percent duty. Imports of certain jewelry are subject to temporary customs surcharges. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement July 1. Domestic banks were allowed to hold for- eign currency balances of companies operating in Mauritius with offshore banks in Mauritius, and the placement of such funds abroad or in offshore banks was exempted from the payment of the 15 percent transfer tax. Payments for Invisibles July 1. The limit on the personal travel allowance was raised to Mau Rs 200,000 from Mau Rs 100,000 for every two years. No other significant changes occurred in the ex- change and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mexico is the Mexican Peso. The Mexican authorities follow a policy of adjusting the external value of the peso in small amounts on a daily basis. On November 11, 1991, the dual ex- change rate market was unified, a band within which the market rate would f luc tua te was defined, and the daily rate of depreciation of the peso against the dollar was reduced to Mex$ 0.20 from Mex$ 0.40 (that is, from an annual rate of 5 percent to one of 2.4 percent). In addition, the differential between intervention points was widened initially to 60 pesos from 35 pesos. To this end, while the selling rate would be depreciated by Mex$ 0.20 daily, the buying rate would remain fixed until March 15, 1992, and begin to be depreciated subsequently at the same rate.1 No limitations apply to the access to ownership or transfer of foreign exchange. On De- cember 31,1991, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Mex$ 3,051.20 and Mex$ 3,096.00 per US$1, respectively. The Bank of Mexico provides, through the Trust Fund for the Coverage of Foreign Exchange Risk (FICORCA), an instrument for forward cover of for- eign exchange for the repayment of certain foreign debt obligations in respect of debt contracted or rescheduled on a long-term basis with foreign fi- nancial entities and suppliers. On January 5, 1987, the Bank of Mexico began to operate a short-term foreign exchange risk coverage market through which commercial and financial operations are cov- ered against exchange rate fluctuations. On Novem- ber 27, 1990, this foreign exchange coverage was extended for transactions up to one year. The scheme applies only to the U.S. dollar, and the coverage is based on the equilibrium exchange rate prevailing on the date of the contract. Mexican banks are prohibited from receiving do- mestic currency deposits from foreign financial in- stitutions abroad or from non-Mexican exchange houses, except when such funds represent the counterpart of foreign currency sold to a Mexican bank for the purpose of a borrowing operation, or when authorized on a case-by-case basis by the Directorate of Central Bank Operations in the Bank JIn light of the favorable experience with the gradual increase in the differential, effective March 13, 1992, it was decided that the differential would be fu r ther widened by holding the buying intervention point constant up to the end January of 1993. of Mexico. Financial institutions located in the areas bordering the United States are permitted to open checking accounts denominated in U.S. dollars for Mexican residents. The same type of accounts may be opened by the commercial banks for Mexican firms operating in Mexico. On November 12,1946, Mexico notified the Fund that it was prepared formally to accept the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Effective November 11, 1991, all controls on ex- change transactions were abolished. The licensing of imports and exports is handled mostly by the Secretariat of Commerce and Industrial Promotion (SECOFI). Foreign exchange policies are established by the Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit (SHCP) and the Bank of Mexico. Prescription of Currency In accordance with the payments agreements with Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela, payments to these countries must be made through accounts maintained with each other at the Bank of Mexico and at the central bank of the country con- cerned, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). A similar arrangement exists with Malaysia. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses from SECOFI are required for only 198 of the 11,810 items in Mexico's general import tar iff, except in the case of temporary imports of raw materials and intermediate goods for export indus- tries. For the items subject to licensing, applications for import licenses may cover the applicant's import needs for nine months on average and can be ex- tended for an additional three months. Import needs are estimated at 20 percent above previous actual imports but may be increased when justified. New licenses are issued only if the applicant can demonstrate that at least 70 percent of earlier li- censes have been effectively used. For some com- modities, "open-end" import licenses may be granted, allowing imports to be effected during a 319 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 320 MEXICO period of six months to one year, subject to an over- all limit. Depending on the importer's performance, the license may be renewed repeatedly. All imports must be accompanied by an exporter's declaration of shipment. Since July 1, 1988, the im- port tariff structure has been based on the harmo- nized product description and coding system of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Imports from member states of the LAIA and other Latin American countries are subject to preferential tar iffs. A free trade zone regime is granted for cer- tain regions2 in the country until December 31, 1992, and until August 31,1995 for the newly estab- lished border zone with Guatemala. This regime allows imports into these regions without customs ta r i f fs as long as the imported goods are not similar to those produced domestically in the same regions. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. The contracting of insurance for persons in Mex- ico, or where the risks are on the account of persons in Mexico or may occur in Mexico, is permitted only with Mexican companies, except when Mexican firms deem it convenient not to execute such trans- actions, in which case the prior authorization of SHCP is required. Reinsurance is permitted with foreign companies. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports do not require licenses. Exports of a few specified items are prohibited. Under the Program for Integral Promotion of Ex- ports (PROFIEX), a drawback system of import duty payments by exporters and their domestic suppliers is in operation. Under an understanding on export subsidies and countervailing duties concluded between Mexico and the United States, Mexico was granted, until April 23,1994, the benefit of the injury test in coun- tervailing duty investigations, in return for which it has undertaken to phase out export subsidies. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on the use of proceeds from invisible exports. Capital Foreign investments must conform to the norms contained in the applicable laws and regulations. 2These regions are the free trade zones of Ba ja California Norte, Baja California Sur, Quintana Roo, and the partial free trade zone of the Sonora State. The Federal Government has ownership and control over certain strategic areas, such as petroleum, basic petrochemical production, radioactive min- erals, electrical and nuclear energy, specified min- ing activities, railroads, mail, and other activities so stated by Mexican law. In addition, foreign invest- ment is forbidden in the following activities: money exchange establishments, radio and television, the public transportation system, and forestry, as well as any other areas specified by the Federal Government. Restrictions on foreign capital participation in new direct foreign investments were liberalized substantially in May 1989. Foreign investors may hold a majority share in new firms (in sectors other than those restricted to the state and national com- panies) as long as the following conditions are met: (1) new investments do not exceed a maximum amount set periodically by the National Foreign In- vestment Commission (CNIE); (2) the financing for new projects is obtained outside the country (in the case of foreign companies established in Mexico, the capital requirement may be financed from their own resources); (3) new investments are located outside the areas of greatest industrial concentra- tion; (4) the accumulated foreign exchange flows generated by new investments balance over the first three years of operation; (5) new investments create permanent employment and establish adequate training programs; and (6) new investments use appropriate technology and observe legal provi- sions regarding ecological standards. Foreign inves- tors are authorized to hold a 100 percent share in new or existing in-bond enterprises producing for export markets. Foreign investments are permitted in the Mexican stock market through specially de- signed trust funds and "B" shares of Mexican cor- porations, but participation is not allowed in the administration of the companies involved. The trust funds are allowed to acquire and hold specially des- ignated "N" or neutral shares of Mexican corpora- tions and to transfer to foreign investors the eco- nomic rights to such shares through the sale of trust participation. Direct foreign investments in Mexico must be re- corded with the CNIE, and applications by foreign individuals or enterprises to acquire more than 49 percent of the capital of a Mexican company require the prior authorization of the CNIE. Invest- ment proposals to which the CNIE has not re- sponded within 45 days af ter an application is sub- mitted are considered to have been approved. The Bank of Mexico authorized brokerage firms to provide services of custodianship and management of Federal Treasury bills (CETES) for nonresident investors. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO 321 The rules favoring the trust funds that enable foreign investors to participate in tourist projects have been simplified. Gold Gold may be freely bought or sold in Mexico at the prevailing exchange rate. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement February 25. The limit over which export proceeds were required to be surrendered at the controlled market rate was increased to US$50,000 a week. As a result of this change, 65 percent of all export trans- actions (equivalent to some 9 percent of the total value of non-oil exports) were exempted from the surrender requirement at the controlled exchange market rate. March 8. Firms that had not complied with ex- change controls (exporters, in-bond industries and importers) were permitted to regularize their posi- tion by paying a temporary fee of 15 percent. November 11. The Controlled Exchange Rate Mar- ket was eliminated. Imports and Import Payments January 26. SECOFI announced that import license requirements for 12 items (mainly chemical and pharmaceutical products) were abolished. February 4. The commodity classification for custom tariff purposes was changed with respect to eight items (mainly meat products and live cattle). All these items were subject to an ad valorem rate of 10 percent. Af ter February 26, the rate would be increased to 20 percent. February 26. Optic fiber imports were subject to an ad valorem tariff rate of 5 percent. February 28. SECOFI announced tariff preferences for 286 items imported from Bolivia, Ecuador, and Paraguay. June 25. The operation of three free trade zones in the country was permitted until December 31,1992. September 20. The import-licensing requirement for processed coffee was abolished. October 31. SECOFI published the rules and the list of specifications for the cars to be imported only in the northern border region and applicable in 1992. December 11. SECOFI announced changes to cer- tain rules governing trade relations with members of the LAIA. Exports and Export Proceeds February 19. SECOFI announced measures to pro- mote exports through deregulation and fiscal and customs measures. April 17. The benefit of the injury test in counter- vailing duty investigation granted by the United States to Mexico was extended until April 23, 1994. May 17. New rules to qualify for a High Export Company Title (ALTEX) were announced. Firms must export the equivalent of at least $2 million dollars annually, or 40 percent of its production, to be eligible for financial support under this facility. June 18. Measures to promote exports, which in- cluded simplified fiscal and administrative pro- cedures and financial support, were announced. September 20. The export-licensing requirement for 11 items (including wheat, sorghum, and cotton sheets) was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MONGOLIA1 (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mongolia is the Tugrik (100 mongo = 1 tugrik). Since July 1990, the tugrik has been pegged to the U.S. dollar. In July 1990, a "base rate" was estab- lished at Tug 5.63 per US$1.2 Until April 16, 1991, the exchange rate applicable to trade transactions (the "commercial" rate) with the convertible cur- rency area was adjusted on a monthly basis by mul- tiplying the base rate by an ad jus tment factor that was equal to the percentage appreciation or de- preciation of the U.S. dollar against a trade- weighted basket of eight major convertible curren- cies3 during the last five days of the previous month. An ad jus tment of the exchange rate was also made before the beginning of a new month if the ad jus t- ment factor changed by more than 2 percent. Since July 1990, the "commercial" rate has been adjusted periodically; it was set at Tug 5.56 per US$1 on Aug- ust 2, 1990, at Tug 5.48 per US$1 on February 14, 1991, at Tug 7.10 per US$1 on April 16, 1991 (when the periodic adjustment mechanism was aban- doned), and at Tug 40 per US$1 on July 1,1991. This latter adjustment applies to cash (nonbarter) trans- actions. Barter trade with the former U.S.S.R. con- tinued to be valued at the rate of Tug 7.1 per US$1 until November 1, 1991, when the rate was set at Tug 15 per US$1, although no settlement of out- standing balances in convertible currencies took place at this rate. Exchange rates for other convert- ible currencies are calculated on the basis of the cross rates of the U.S. dollar against the currencies concerned on international currency markets pre- vailing on the day the dollar rate is fixed. At the end of August 1991, commercial banks were authorized to buy and sell foreign exchange at a freely deter- mined rate. This rate has fluctuated between the official rate and the officially tolerated parallel rate. From the beginning of 1988 to June 10, 1991, Mongolia also maintained a "noncommercial" ex- change rate, which was applied only to sales of 1The People's Republic of Mongolia became a member of the IMF on February 14, 1991. 2The base rate was calculated as the ratio of the value of a group of semiprocessed and manufac tured export products at domestic wholesale prices to their value at foreign contract prices in 1988. 3The currencies are the Austrian schilling, the Canadian dol- lar, the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Italian lira, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, and the Swiss f ranc. foreign exchange by the fo rmer State Bank to tour- ist agencies and Mongolian passport holders pur- chasing foreign exchange for travel purposes; no purchases by the fo rmer State Bank have taken place. In Janua ry 1988, this rate was set at Tug 20 per US$1 and was ad ju s ted to Tug 40 per US$1 on February 14, 1991. On June 10, 1991, the commer- cial and noncommercial ra tes were un if ied at Tug 40 per US$1. During the second half of 1990, three officially sanctioned exchange auctions were held among state enterprises and cooperatives. The former State Bank acted as broker, participating as neither a buyer nor a seller on its own account. There exists an officially tolerated parallel market. Having fluctu- ated in the range of Tug 100-130 per US$1 during July-November 1991, the exchange rate in this mar- ket depreciated fur ther by the end of the year. Until the end of 1990, Mongolia, as a member of the former Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA), effected transactions with other member countries in transferable rubles (TR) through the International Bank for Economic Cooperation (IBEC). The exchange rate for commercial transac- tions was fixed at Tug 4.444 per TR 1, representing the same gold content as the former U.S.S.R. ruble. A noncommercial exchange rate for the former U.S.S.R. ruble was used for a modest amount of international transactions (less than 10 percent of turnover) that took place at the retail level, includ- ing, for example, the costs of embassies of former CMEA members, the living expenses of students, and tourism. At the end of 1990, this exchange rate was Tug 4.18 per U.S.S.R. ruble, and the implied rate against the transferable ruble was Tug 6.69 per TR 1. Administration of Control The system of foreign exchange control is in transi- tion. Until September 1990, authority for control over foreign exchange rested with the People's Great Khural (upper house of Parliament), which approved the foreign exchange budget as part of the overall annual economic plan. On the basis of this budget, the Ministry of Finance prepared detailed sectoral foreign exchange allocations, and the State Bank en- sured that the allocations were implemented. At the beginning of 1991, foreign exchange allocations for the year were made on the basis of projected foreign 322 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MONGOLIA 323 exchange earnings. During the year, however, ex- change allocations for most sectoral ministries were exhausted, and additional allocations were made on the basis of available foreign exchange resources on an ad hoc basis. Moreover, private sector entities were allowed to engage in foreign trade activities, but inter- national trade was still conducted almost exclusively by state enterprises, which dominate productive ac- tivities, and through state foreign trading organiza- tions (FTOs). Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Until the end of 1990, transactions with the for- mer CMEA members were effected through the clearing mechanism of the IBEC. Since the begin- ning of 1991, all trade with the former CMEA mem- bers4 has, in principle, been conducted at world prices on the basis of convertible currencies. The modalities for settling outstanding balances under the IBEC clearing arrangements, including the ap- propriate exchange rate for the transferable ruble, are currently under negotiation, and trade with the former CMEA members, other than the former U.S.S.R., is being conducted on an ad hoc basis under bilateral arrangements that were concluded before 1991. In July 1991, Mongolia concluded a bilateral trade agreement with the former U.S.S.R., regularizing trade relations that had been in opera- tion on an informal basis since the beginning of 1991. Trade was intended to be balanced with an indicative value of trade in each direction set at $380 million, although the actual outcome fell signifi- cantly short of this target. Mongolia also maintains bilateral clearing arrangements with Afghanistan, China, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, and Yugoslavia. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident Foreign Exchange Accounts. Resident per- sons and enterprises may maintain foreign ex- change accounts at authorized banks. These ac- counts may be credited with retained export earnings and foreign exchange transferred from abroad, and balances on the accounts may be used for any purpose without restriction. Imports and Exports Import and export trade with the convertible cur- rency area is handled mainly by Mongolimpex. Un- 4The members of the CMEA were Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslo- vakia, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the former U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. til the dissolution of the CMEA t rad ing agree- men t, trade with this area was principally han- dled by f o ur FTOs: (1) Mongolexport handled all exports; (2) Teknikimport imported machinery and equipment; (3) Rasnoimport imported con- sumer goods; and (4) Au tone f t impo rt imported vehicles and petroleum p roduc ts. All remaining restrictions on t rade activities by the private sector were removed in mid-1991 with the passage of the company and privatization laws. A license is re- quired to export, and it is issued by the Ministry of Trade and Indu s t ry upon submission of a pro- posed export contract. Foreign exchange surrender regulations are en- forced along with a retention system. Foreign ex- change earned by enterprises and cooperatives for which state export orders are established and which do not exceed the targets is, in general, required to be surrendered in full, whereas foreign exchange earnings exceeding targets are allowed to be re- tained in full. Enterprises and cooperatives for which export targets are not set may retain up to 50 percent and 90 percent, respectively, of export earnings. The tourist agency (Zhuulchin) must sur- render 40 percent, and the national airline (MIAT), 90 percent of their foreign exchange earnings. The exact proportion to be surrendered, however, is specified on a case-by-case basis by the Ministry of Finance, subject to the ceilings mentioned above. Private sector exporters are allowed to retain all of their earnings. Retained foreign exchange may be deposited in foreign exchange accounts and used for any purpose without restriction, subject to com- pliance with the appropriate regulation, or sold through negotiation. Imports are subject to a uni- form 15 percent customs duty and a 10 percent import surcharge, although widespread exemp- tions exist. In addition, for some goods, an import price differential system is retained for state enter- prises, with the difference between the domestic price and the Tugrik equivalent of the import price transferred to the budget. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles The foreign exchange budget also applies to invis- ible payments to, or receipts from, the convertible currency area. Limits have been imposed on the amount of foreign exchange that students and trav- elers for tourism and business purposes can purchase at the official rate. Foreign exchange for medical treat- ment abroad has been provided on a case-by-case basis. At present, no foreign exchange is granted for invisible payments that are not related to merchan- dise trade. Remittances of dividends and profits from investments in convertible currencies are permitted ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 324 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MONGOLIA under the Law of Foreign Investment of May 1990 (see below). Capital Until recently, foreign direct investment was lim- ited to joint ventures between Mongolian state enter- prises and the state enterprises of other former CMEA member countries. More recently, foreign investment by private corporations has been encouraged. The Law on Foreign Investment (of May 1990) has codified the procedures for establishing foreign firms in Mongolia and provides certain guarantees and priv- ileges to foreign investors. Among the provisions of this law are that there will be no nationalization, and foreign investors will have the right to dispose of their assets. The right to transfer profits abroad is pro- tected. The maximum rate of profit tax is 40 percent, and foreign investors are exempted from the tax for a period of three years. In addition, the law stipulates that entities with foreign participation may export at world prices or other agreed prices and that they may import or export directly or in cooperation with the foreign trade enterprises. The law particularly en- courages investment in export promotion, projects using advanced technology, and the exploitation of natural resources. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement April 16. The commercial and barter exchange rate was adjusted to Tug 7.1 per US$1. June 10. The commercial and noncommercial exchange ra tes were un if ied at Tug 40 per US$1. (The bar ter exchange ra te remained at Tug 7.1 per US$1.) August 29. Commercial banks were authorized to buy and sell foreign exchange at a freely determined rate. November 1. The barter exchange rate was de- valued to Tug 15 per US$1. Administration of Control August 1. The Company Law, establishing the right of all economic entities to engage in foreign trade, was passed. Imports and Exports March 1. New customs legislation came into effec t, introducing differential tar iffs on imports and taxes on exports. July 11. Export taxes were eliminated. Import tar- i f fs were modified to a flat rate of 15 percent, with exemptions for joint-venture enterprises, donor fi- nanced imports, fixed-price goods, and imports for humanitarian purposes. October 1. A surcharge of 10 percent was intro- duced on imports by public sector enterprises, ex- cluding those by joint ventures and fixed-price goods. December 1. The excise tax was extended, at dif- ferential rates, to imported spirits and tobacco. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Morocco is the Moroccan Dir- ham. Bank Al-Maghrib fixes buying and selling rates for the French franc daily on the basis of varia- tions in the value of the currencies of Morocco's principal trading partners, weighted in accordance with the geographic distribution of Morocco's for- eign trade and the pattern of currencies of settle- ment. Buying and selling rates for most other cur- rencies quoted in Morocco1 are established on the basis of the daily dirham-French franc rate and the cross rates for those currencies in relation to the French franc in the Paris exchange market. On De- cember 31, 1991, the exchange rate for the French franc was DH 1.56861 buying and DH 1.57805 sell- ing, per F1. On the same date, the exchange rate for the U.S. dollar was DH 8.1159 buying, and DH 8.1838 selling, per US$1. All sales and purchases of foreign currency are centralized in Bank Al-Maghrib, but the authorized banks are permitted to offset purchases and sales on behalf of private customers in each currency sepa- rately. Each day, authorized banks must purchase from or sell to Bank Al-Maghrib the balances of their purchases and sales in each currency; transactions are effected at rates fixed by Bank Al-Maghrib. Compensation between banks is not permitted; thus, no foreign exchange market exists in Morocco. Bank Al-Maghrib also establishes buying and sell- ing rates for transactions with travelers in bank notes, traveler's checks, and letters of credit de- nominated in convertible currencies (those listed in footnote 1, including the French franc but excluding the Mauritanian ouguiya and the Tunisian dinar) and specified other currencies;2 the authorized banks sell to Bank Al-Maghrib their excess holdings of bank notes and replenish them at the bank when necessary. A forward foreign exchange cover facility was es- tablished by the authorities effective June 1, 1979; the facility is available for exports as well as imports of items benefiting from special customs arrange- 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, European Currency Units (ECUs), Fin- nish markkaa, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Mauritanian ouguiya, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Tunisian dinars, U .A .E. dirhams, and U.S. dollars. 2CFA francs and Gibraltar pounds. ments. Forward contracts for the purchase or sale of foreign exchange that have been concluded be- tween banks and their customers result in reverse contracts between the banks and Bank Al-Maghrib. They may be concluded in any foreign currency quoted by Bank Al-Maghrib for maturity periods ranging from a minimum of 1 month to a maximum of 12 months; the guaranteed exchange rate corre- sponds to the spot exchange rate, against the pay- ment of a commission of 2 percent a year, of which a share amounting to 0.25 percent is retained by the authorized banks; provisions are made for extend- ing contract terms, revising contracts in part, or canceling them in whole or in part. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ex- change Office, an agency under the Ministry of Finance. This office has delegated the execution of the main exchange control measures to authorized banks. Import certificates and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce. Import com- mitments for liberalized goods are signed by the importer himself; they do not require the visa of the Exchange Office unless the commercial contract is stipulated in c . i . f. terms, except for contracts for goods shipped by air or parcel post or if the com- mercial contract provides for phased settlements, including interest or charges. Imports that do not involve payment do not require the visa of the Ex- change Office. Part of the Port of Tangier is desig- nated a free trade zone and is exempt from taxation and from trade, customs, and exchange controls. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made in currencies quoted by Bank Al-Maghrib3 or through foreign accounts in convertible dirhams and foreign currency accounts opened in Moroccan banks in the name of foreign correspondents. Nonresident Accounts The various types of nonresident accounts are as follows. Foreign currency accounts are held by na tu ral or jur id ical foreign nationals, either residents or 3See foo tno te 1. 325 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 326 MOROCCO nonresidents. These may be free ly credited with book t ran s fe rs f rom abroad, w i th fore ign bank notes, checks, traveler's checks, or any other means of payment denominated in fore ign cur- rency, and with foreign currency w i thdrawn f rom Bank Al-Maghrib following general or special au- thorization from the Exchange Office. They may be f ree ly debited for book t ran s fe rs abroad to the account holder or to a third pa r ty foreign national, for the surrender of fore ign currency to Bank Al- Maghrib, or for the payment of checks denomi- nated in foreign currency. Foreign accounts in convertible dirhams are reserved for natural or juridical persons of foreign na- tionality, who may be residents or nonresidents. These accounts may be credited freely with autho- rized payments due to residents of countries in the area of convertibility and with dirhams obtained from the sale to Bank Al-Maghrib of convertible currencies, including bank notes. They may be deb- ited freely for payments in Morocco and for pur- chases from Bank Al-Maghrib of convertible curren- cies. Foreign transfers between foreign accounts in convertible dirhams may be made freely, and there are no restrictions on the interest rate payable. Holders of these accounts may obtain international credit cards with which to settle their bills in Mo- rocco and abroad. Convertible dirham accounts may be opened and ma in ta ined by nonresident Moroccans. Over- d r a f ts are not allowed, and there are no restric- tions on the interest ra te payable. These accounts may be credited free ly with (1) dirhams f rom the sale of convertible currencies, including bank notes, to Bank Al-Maghrib; (2) t rans fe rs autho- rized by the Exchange Office; (3) payments of in- terest accrued on these accounts; (4) amoun ts f rom fore ign accounts in convertible dirhams; and (5) amoun ts f rom term deposits in convertible dir- ham accounts. They may be debited f ree ly for (1) the purchase of foreign exchange f rom Bank Al-Maghrib; (2) dirham payments in Morocco; (3) t rans fe rs to foreign accounts in convertible dir- hams; and (4) t ran s fe rs to term deposits in con- vertible d irham accounts. These accounts may also be debited freely, either for the benef it of the account holder or for other nonresidents, for the purchase of foreign bank notes, traveler's checks, or other foreign currency-denom ina ted means of paymen t. Convertible term accounts are designed to attract funds from nonresident foreigners who are not en- titled to guaranteed transfers but who may transfer funds within a period of five years. The holders of such accounts may use the available funds, without prior authorization from the Exchange Office, to fund investments in Morocco, buy treasury bonds, purchase transferable securities quoted on the Ca- sablanca Stock Exchange, settle expenses incurred in Morocco and, in the case of foreign corporations, to provide their Moroccan subsidiaries with current account advances. They may also freely transfer the proceeds to resident or nonresident foreigners or to Moroccans residing abroad. The beneficiaries of the proceeds of these accounts may use them to cover expenses incurred by foreign film companies shoot- ing films in Morocco; to purchase secondary resi- dences under certain conditions; and to finance up to 50 percent of the investor's participation in invest- ments in Morocco, fresh inflows of foreign exchange being required to cover the other half. Investments funded with the proceeds of convertible term ac- counts have an immediate retransfer guarantee in the event of liquidation or transfer, with the excep- tion of certain categories that have a three-year wait- ing period. Imports and Import Payments Imports are admitted in accordance with the annual General Import Program, which covers goods requiring prior authorization. All goods not appear ing on this list may be f ree ly imported w i thout restriction on quan t i ty or value. However, in exceptional cases, insurance policies may be unde rw r i t ten abroad for externally funded im- ports if the terms of such fund ing include fore ign insurance; produc ts requiring such insurance coverage are capital goods and equipment under turnkey contracts or duly authorized investment programs, crude oil, gas and diesel oil, and wood. For all imports, the import title —import certificate or import comm i tmen t —must be domiciled (reg- istered) with an authorized bank, which may make payments upon submission of the requ ired documents. Special procedures are applicable to specified imports f inanced by fore ign aid or loans. Imports used for the production of export goods can be f inanced directly f rom the proceeds of fo r- eign exchange claims of the same exporter within the framework of special lines of credit that Mo- roccan commercial banks are authorized to con- tract with their foreign correspondents. Customs duties are levied on an ad valorem basis. The maximum tariff rate is set at 40 percent. In addition to regular customs tariffs, a fiscal levy of 12.5 percent ad valorem was introduced in Jan- uary 1988, consolidating the previous special im- port tax and stamp duty. Imports used as inputs in export production activities may be exempted from import duties and other import restrictions under ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 327 the temporary admission scheme. Preferential customs tariff treatments are also granted to im- ports of capital goods by enterprises in the tourism and shipping sectors, as well as other industrial enterprises qualifying under the provisions of Mo- rocco's Industrial Investment Code. Imports of a relatively small number of items are subject to mini- mum import prices (reference prices), which are intended to serve as antidumping or safeguard measures. Payments for Invisibles The authorized banks are allowed to transfer to nonresident foreign persons, without authorization from the Exchange Office, the income generated by their investments in Morocco.4 Similar transactions are permitted for Moroccans living abroad, provided that the investments are made in foreign exchange or by debiting convertible dirham accounts and that they are accompanied by a retransfer guarantee. The authorized banks are permitted to make pay- ments and settle expenses incidental to commercial transactions covered by the relevant import or ex- port documents. Without authorization from the Exchange Office, Moroccan enterprises are permit- ted to settle in dirhams the expenses incurred by their foreign managers and nonresident foreigners while working for, or on behalf of, these enterprises. Foreigners residing in Morocco and employed in either the private or public sector, or engaged in the liberal professions, industry, commerce, agricul- ture, etc., may transfer up to 50 percent of the savings on the income from their salaries, wages, fees, and profits, whether or not their spouses re- side in Morocco. Retired persons also have the same entitlement. Teachers attached to the Ministry of National Education are allowed an additional trans- fer equivalent to 35 percent of their monthly income for 30 days' leave taken abroad, 70 percent for 60 days' leave, and 105 percent for 70 days' leave. The foreign spouses of Moroccans are entitled to trans- fer up to the equivalent of DH 5,000 a year. Moroccan residents who wish to travel abroad are entitled to a foreign exchange allocation equivalent to DH 1,000 a person a year. There is a special allocation for pilgrimages. Residents of foreign na- tionality who wish to travel abroad may be granted foreign exchange equivalent to all of their savings from income. A foreign exchange allocation up to the equivalent of DH 2,000 a month is granted to foreign nationals residing in Morocco to cover the cost of higher education for a child studying abroad. 4The transfer of dividends of nonresident-owned shares of Moroccan companies not listed on the Casablanca Stock Ex- change requires the approval of the Exchange Office. Business travel by exporters of goods and services may be financed without restriction from funds from convertible export promotion accounts main- tained with Moroccan banks, which may be cred- ited with 20 percent of proceeds from merchandise exports and 10 percent of proceeds from exports of services. Business travel allowances for others are approved by the Exchange Office on the basis of need, with a daily maximum limit of DH 2,000. Authorized banks have been empowered to provide advance allowances of up to DH 40,000 to small and medium-size enterprises. In all cases, business travel allowances may be added to allowances for tourist travel. Deep-sea fishing companies may maintain con- vertible dirham or foreign currency accounts with Moroccan banks. Convertible dirham accounts may be credited with the fu ll dirham equivalent of for- eign exchange earnings, and foreign currency ac- counts may be credited with 25 percent of foreign exchange earnings. The operating expenses of these companies, including travel expenses of employees, may be financed from these accounts. Foreign air- lines operating in Morocco may transfer, without prior authorization from the Exchange Office, any surplus revenue from the proceeds of ticket sales, excess baggage, and air freight af ter payment of expenses in Morocco. Moroccan film distribution companies may transfer to foreign film producers or distributors user fees and other additional expenses related to the showing of these films in Morocco. The following expenses are approved for Moroc- can students abroad: (1) an annual installation al- lowance equivalent to DH 10,000, and the same amount for the person accompanying the student if he/she is a minor leaving Morocco for the first time; (2) school fees to foreign academic institutions upon submission of documentary evidence and without limit; and (3) a monthly allowance for living ex- penses amounting to the equivalent of DH 4,000 a month for nonscholarship holders and DH 2,500 for scholarship holders. Workers leaving Morocco for employment abroad for the f i rst time or re tu rn ing to their work- place abroad may be gran ted DH 5,000 in fore ign bank notes upon presentation of employment contracts. Transfers re la t ing to remittances for fam i ly ma in tenance and allowances for medical t rea tment are approved upon presentation of doc- umen ta ry evidence. Visitors to Morocco are perm i t ted to repurchase fore ign exchange against presentation of ex- change cer t if ica te(s) up to the amount remaining f rom the original conversion of fore ign exchange into dirhams. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 328 MOROCCO The exportation of domestic bank notes is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Almost all exports may be made freely. Only sub- sidized food products, live animals, and archae- ological products are subject to authorization. Fruits, fresh vegetables, raw cotton, and cotton by- products may be exported either directly by the producers or through a state trading agency, the Office of Marketing and Export (Office de commer- cialization et d'exportation (OCE)), which is also in charge of wine exports. The Cherifien Phosphate Office Group has a monopoly over the exportation of phosphates and phosphate products. Mineral products are subject to an ad valorem export tax amounting to 5 percent for hydrocarbons and phos- phates and 0.5 percent for all other minerals. A 1 percent quality control tax is applied to exports of foods tu f fs. All exporters must sign an undertaking to repatri- ate and surrender foreign exchange proceeds. The foreign exchange must be surrendered within one month of the date of payments by foreign buyers that is fixed in the commercial contract; in principle, this date must not be longer than 120 days a f ter the date of arrival of the merchandise at its destination. This deadline may be extended if warranted by business conditions and approved by the Exchange Office. Export proceeds collected abroad may be used to repay export credits. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents of Moroccan nationality and Moroc- can companies mu st repa t r ia te exchange receipts accruing f rom all their noncommercial claims and surrender them to an au thor ized bank. Other resi- dents must su r render noncommercial receipts only if the receipts resu lt f rom their activities in Morocco. Moroccans working abroad must sur- render fore ign exchange in their possession within one month of their arrival in Morocco, but they are perm i t ted to repurchase up to 15 percent of the amount su r rende red, with a max imum of DH 5,000 when leaving Morocco. Nonresident travelers may f ree ly br ing in fore ign bank notes, traveler's checks, and other means of payment denom ina ted in fore ign currency. Resident trav- elers may also bring in fore ign bank notes in any amoun t, as well as any other means of payment in fore ign exchange, but must surrender them within 30 days of the ir arrival. The importation of domestic bank notes is proh ib i ted. Capital A new industrial investment code, which came into force in February 1983, provides for full foreign ownership of Moroccan companies in certain sec- tors and an easing of repatriation of capital; it also grants fiscal and other incentives for foreign invest- ment. In addition, an investment code introduced for the tourist sector in August 1983 offers tax and other incentives to domestic and foreign investors in most areas of the tourist sector; it also provides for full repatriation of tourist-related profits after tax, without any restraint on timing. The following types of investment are permitted without the prior authorization of the Exchange Of- fice: (1) participation in the equity capital of a com- pany being established; (2) subscription to the capi- tal increase of an existing company; (3) purchases of Moroccan securities; (4) non-interest-bearing con- tributions to partnership current accounts; (5) pur- chases of real property; (6) self-financing con- struction projects; (7) establishment or purchase of a sole proprietorship; and (8) operations to increase capital through the capitalization of reserves, car- ryovers, or reserve provisions that have become available, or the consolidation of partnership cur- rent accounts. Operations involving transfers of in- vestment ownership between foreigners do not re- quire the authorization of the Exchange Office. Repatriation of capital, including capital gains, is permitted without restriction. The holders of convertible term accounts may freely use funds on these accounts for financing investment operations in Morocco in all sectors of economic activity, regardless of the kind of invest- ment; for purchasing treasury bonds under the ex- isting laws; for current account advances from for- eign corporations to their subsidiaries in Morocco and any other placements the account holder may make; for acquiring transferable securities quoted on the Casablanca Stock Exchange; for settling liv- ing expenses and any other expenses in dirhams in Morocco incurred by the account holder or his/her spouse, direct ancestors, and descendants, in the case of individuals, or by duly designated agents, in the case of corporations, with no limits on the amount; and for paying duties and taxes due in Morocco by the account holder. Furthermore, the original holders of convertible term accounts may freely transfer funds on their accounts to resident or nonresident foreigners or to nonresident Moroccan nationals. Funds on convertible term accounts so transferred may be used by the new holders to cover all dirham expenses incurred in Morocco by foreign film producing companies for shooting films in Mo- rocco; to purchase secondary residences (provided ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 329 that the home to be purchased is located in a tour- ism developments area and that it is for the buyer's personal use); to finance up to 50 percent of capital increases of subsidiaries of foreign corporations es- tablished in Morocco, provided that the rest is fi- nanced with foreign exchange trasferred from abroad; and to finance partially investment opera- tions in Morocco in all sectors of activity, regardless of the form of investment (in this case, debits from the convertible term account are allowed to cover up to 50 percent of the investment only, provided that the remaining 50 percent is financed with foreign exchange transferred from abroad). Transfers of capital by foreigners leaving the country permanently are limited to DH 25,000 for each year spent in Morocco, with no overall ceiling. Moroccan nationals residing in the country and corporations established in Morocco may invest abroad with the authorization of the Exchange Of- fice. However, they are required to remit the income generated by their investments and the proceeds from liquidation of their investments. Gold Commemorative gold coins with a face value of DH 250 and DH 500 have been issued and are legal tender. Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Morocco for numismatic or investment pur- poses. Ten different types of foreign gold coins are traded on the Casablanca Stock Exchange, which does not, however, deal in gold bars. Imports of gold are subject to authorization from the Directorate of Customs and Indirect Taxes. Each year, the Ministry of Finance fixes a quota for the importation of gold ingots, which is then allocated among jewelers and industrial users of precious metals. Exports of gold are prohibited. Changes During 1991 Nonresident Accounts March 29. Exporters of goods and services were allowed to open and maintain convertible dirham ac- counts and to keep 20 percent and 10 percent, respec- tively, of their earnings in these accounts to cover promotional and representational expenses abroad. May 22. Authorized banks were empowered to issue international credit cards to Moroccan na- tionals holding convertible dirham accounts. Payments for Invisibles January 10. Foreign employees were permitted to transfer up to 50 percent of their wages and salaries abroad, whether or not their spouses live in Mo- rocco; previously, the maximum limit for foreign employees whose spouses were living in Morocco was 30 percent. August 2. Foreign spouses of Moroccans were per- mitted to transfer up to the equivalent of DH 5,000 a year. September 17. The installation allowance for Mo- roccan students pursuing studies abroad was in- creased to DH 10,000. November 1. The annual foreign exchange al- lowance for business travel by employees of enter- prises other than those exporting goods and ser- vices was set at DH 2,000 a day up to a maximum equivalent to DH 40,000 a day for small and medium-size enterprises; for others, the amount would be set in agreement with the Exchange Office based on each enterprise's need. November 19. Authorized banks were authorized to conduct foreign exchange arbitrage operations on behalf of any resident or nonresident foreigner without restriction in respect of amount. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOZAMBIQUE (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mozambique is the Metical (plu- ral Meticais), which is pegged to a weighted basket consisting of 10 major currencies, with the weights reflecting the relative importance of these curren- cies in Mozambique's external transactions in goods and services. Exchange rates for these and 11 other currencies are published daily by the Bank of Mo- zambique (BM), which is the central bank and also the major commercial bank.1 On December 31, 1991, the buying and selling rates of the metical, in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were Mt. 1,827.13 per US$1 and Mt. 1,863.67 per US$1, respectively. Since October 31, 1990, a secondary market for foreign exchange (Mercado Secundario de Cambios (MSC)), in which exchange rates are to be deter- mined freely by supply and demand, has been in operation. Authorized operators are free to set buy- ing and selling rates in the MSC. All three banks— the BM, Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento (BPD), and Banco Standard Totta de Mozambique (BSTM)—are licensed to operate in the MSC, as is one enterprise, SAFREQUE, in Beira. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The National Planning Commission prepares an- nually, in consultation with the ministries of Fi- nance, Commerce, and Cooperation, as well as the BM, a global foreign exchange budget for the follow- ing year, as part of the Government Economic and Social Program. Imports and exports are authorized by means of licenses issued by the Ministry of Com- merce, and invisible transactions are controlled by the Ministry of Finance. Foreign exchange transac- tions, including the surrender of foreign exchange proceeds, are effected through the BM. The BSTM is authorized to handle some transactions in the official market. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Malawi kwacha, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, South Afri- can rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, Zambian kwacha, and Zimbabwe dollars. Prescription of Currency Mozambique maintains a bilateral clearing agree- ment with Tanzania, but transactions under it have been suspended. It also maintains bilateral pay- ments arrangements with Malawi, Swaziland, and Zimbabwe, but these relate to use of national cur- rencies for border trade. Nonresident Accounts Foreigners residing in Mozambique may open accounts denominated in foreign exchange at the BM and the BSTM. There is no restriction on the use of these accounts. They may also open accounts in any bank operating in the country, but transfers of such funds abroad at the official exchange rate re- quire proof that the amounts originated in foreign currency. Persons or businesses residing abroad may open nonresident bank accounts for specific purposes based on their legitimate interests in Mo- zambique; credits and debits to these accounts must comply with the regulations established by the competent authorities. Ex-residents (national and foreign residents who no longer enjoy residency status) may hold bank accounts in Mozambique, but their use is subject to prior authorization, in accor- dance with Ministry of Finance regulations. With- drawals may be made for payment of taxes, certain types of debt (fees and obligations to the Govern- ment, government agencies, credit institutions, and insurance companies, provided that such debts are properly verified), authorized outward transfers, maintenance expenses for spouses and relatives, payments of expenses incurred by the account holders while visiting the country, and other pay- ments for which authorization is obtained from the Ministry of Finance. Imports and Import Payments Virtually all imports are subject to licensing by the Ministry of Commerce. The license specifies, among other things, the place of embarkation or disembarkation of the goods and the amount and currency of payment. Enterprises may obtain im- port licenses from the Ministry of Commerce, which considers applications on a case-by-case basis. Imports of raw materials, spare parts, petro- leum, food, and medicines are given priority. Indi- viduals may import goods up to $500 without an import license if financed with their own foreign 330 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOZAMBIQUE 331 exchange resources, and licenses are provided rou- tinely for imports exceeding this value. Since Octo- ber 31, 1990, under the MSC regulations, importers have been allowed to purchase foreign exchange in the MSC, provided that import licenses (which are required only for imports exceeding $500) bear the notation "Covered by the MSC." Certain stores op- erating under government franchise import goods for retail sales in U.S. dollars and South African rand. A system of nonadministrative allocation of foreign exchange (SNAAD) is applied to imports of (1) inputs for the clothing, shoe, food, tools, hygiene, furn i ture, and livestock feed industries; (2) spare parts for freight carriers and public trans- portation, and the construction industry; (3) indus- trial equipment; (4) fertilizers and agrochemicals; and (5) certain petroleum products. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles at the official exchange rate are processed by the BM upon presentation of the authorization granted by the Ministry of Fi- nance. Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Travel allowances in offi- cial exchange are made available only in certain cases, mainly for medical treatment; such al- lowances are determined on a case-by-case basis. Individuals are permitted to buy foreign exchange in the MSC to pay for expenses associated with travel for education, scientific and cultural visits, and medical treatment, up to limits prescribed in the MSC regulations. An annual ceiling of $2,000 is applied to other travelers. Remittances for educa- tion abroad are subject to a monthly ceiling of $300. Each ministry is subject to a ceiling on foreign ex- change for official business and educational travel expenses. Foreign experts working in Mozambique may remit abroad all or part of their salaries, de- pending on the terms of their employment con- tracts. Nonresidents may export foreign bank notes up to the amount they declared on entry. Exports and reimports of domestic currency are prohibited. Citizens leaving the country on business and pri- vate travel are entitled to purchase foreign currency at the border, up to the equivalent of $12.50 once a year. An airport fee of $10 in foreign currency is levied by the airport authorities on each interna- tional departure. Remittances of profit/dividends from foreign di- rect investment may be made in accordance with the specific project authorization. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to licensing, and all export proceeds must be collected through the BM. Export licenses are granted if applicable legal requirements are fulfilled. Exporters of most products and some services are allowed to retain a certain proportion of foreign exchange proceeds to purchase imported merchandise and service inputs; the average reten- tion rate is about 43 percent. Since October 1990, certain exporters have been permitted, subject to specific authorization from the Ministry of Com- merce and the BM, to sell up to 20 percent of their export receipts in the MSC; since July 1991, foreign exchange earned from nontraditional exports has been allowed to be sold in the MSC. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the BM. Since October 31, 1990, however, foreign tourists, temporary visitors, and foreigners work- ing in Mozambique have been allowed to sell their foreign exchange in the MSC. Nonresident travelers must convert the equivalent of $25 into meticais upon arrival. Certain Mozambican nationals work- ing abroad under officially arranged contracts (spe- cifically, miners in the Republic of South Africa) are obliged to remit 60 percent of their earnings through the BM for conversion into meticais. Capital The Government and the Bank of Mozambique are authorized to borrow abroad. Enterprises are also allowed to borrow abroad, provided that loans are guaranteed by the BM (or the Government). All foreign borrowing is channeled through the BM, which registers such loans, may guarantee them if requested, and monitors foreign debt. The Direct Foreign Investment Law, published in April 1984, aims to encourage the participation of foreign capi- tal both in the formation of new enterprises with exclusively foreign capital and in association with other Mozambican enterprises. The law specifies guarantees to investors as well as the right to trans- fer invested capital and a portion of profits abroad. The incentives for foreign investments include tax and customs exemptions for specified periods and access to domestic credit. The Foreign Investment Promotion Office (Gabinete para a Promogao do Investimento Estrangeiro (GPIE)), established in 1984, processes foreign investment proposals. Gold The marketing and exportation of gold are regu- lated by Decree 11/81 of July 25,1981. The responsi- bility for enforcing this decree rests with the BM. Imports of gold or other precious metals are gov- erned by special regulations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 332 MOZAMBIQUE Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement During the year, the exchange rate of the metical was adjusted on numerous occasions, from Mt. 1,027.87 per US$1 (buying) and Mt. 1,048.43 per US$1 (selling) on January 1,1991 toM t. 1,827.13 per US$1 (buying) and Mt. 1,863.67 per US$1 (selling) on December 31, 1991. July 1. The secondary market for foreign exchange (MSC) was expanded: proceeds from nontraditional export earnings were allowed to be sold in this mar- ket and selected imports were shifted to it from the official market. Imports and Import Payments July 1. The product coverage under the system of nonadministrative foreign exchange allocation (SNAAD) was expanded to include (1) inputs for the clothing, shoe, food, tools, hygiene, furniture, and livestock feed industries; (2) spare parts for freight carriers and public transportation and the construction industry; (3) industrial equipment; (4) fertilizers and agrochemicals; and (5) certain pe- troleum products. Exports and Export Proceeds July 1. Proceeds from nontraditional exports were allowed to be sold in the secondary exchange market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MYANMAR (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Myanmar is the Myanmar Kyat, which is officially pegged to the SDR at K 8.50847 per SDR 1. Myanmar applies margins of 2 percent in respect of spot exchange transactions, based on the fixed kyat-SDR rate. The buying and selling rates of the kyat for the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, the Swiss franc, and the U.S. dollar, quoted by the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, are determined on the basis of the daily calculations of the value of these currencies against the SDR. The buying and selling rates of the kyat for the currencies of some member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) (that is, the Ban- gladesh taka, the Indian rupee, the Pakistan rupee, and the Sri Lanka rupee) are also determined on the basis of the daily calculations of the value of these currencies against the SDR. On December 31,1991, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were K 5.9542 and K 6.0733, respectively, per US$1. The buying and selling rates for the Belgian franc, the Italian lira, the Hong Kong dollar, the Malaysian ringgit, the Netherlands guilder, and the Singapore dollar are determined daily on the basis of appropri- ate cross rates in the Singapore market, and buying and selling rates for other currencies are based on appropriate cross rates published in the Asian Wall Street Journal or the London Financial Times. At pres- ent, there are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Control- ler of Foreign Exchange and the Exchange Control Board, through the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, in accordance with instructions from the Ministry of Planning and Finance. A Foreign Exchange Control Committee headed by the Minister of Planning and Finance is in charge of allocating foreign exchange. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Myanmar maintains no bilateral payments agree- ments. Certain settlements with Bangladesh are channeled through a nonresident bank account at the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, and certain settle- ments with India are channeled through special rupee accounts in that country. Payments to other countries may be made in any foreign currency or by crediting kyats to an external account in Myan- mar. Receipts must be collected in convertible cur- rencies or to the debit of an external account in Myanmar. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts may be kept with the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank by international or- ganizations, diplomatic personnel, or other foreign residents. Such accounts are normally held in deut- sche mark, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars. They may be credited and debited freely, but no interest is payable on them. Transfers of balances between these accounts are permitted with approval. For- eign nationals temporarily resident in Myanmar are entitled to hold foreign exchange utilization cards for use in diplomatic shops. Nonresidents may be authorized to hold external accounts in kyats; all debits and credits to such accounts require prior authorization. The following regulations apply to the operation of foreign currency accounts by residents: (a) Foreign currency accounts of national firms Private exporters who are registered with the Ministry of Trade are allowed to open foreign cur- rency accounts with their export proceeds. The ex- porter is allowed to retain 100 percent of export proceeds. Account holders are allowed to import under valid import licenses issued by the Ministry of Trade on the basis of import letters of credit or on a collection basis. (b) Foreign currency accounts of national individuals The following individuals are currently allowed to open foreign currency accounts: (1) Myanmar na- tionals returning from abroad after completing their assignments; (2) Myanmar nationals working abroad with foreign firms under official permits; (3) Myanmar seamen working with foreign ship- ping lines under the existing instructions; (4) Myan- mar nationals working with the United Nations and its affiliated organizations; (5) service personnel of the Ministry of Foreign Affa irs performing their duties with Myanmar embassies abroad; (6) Myan- mar nationals receiving pensions in foreign cur- rency after serving with foreign governments or international organizations; (7) Myanmar nationals 333 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 334 MYANMAR receiving foreign exchange for services rendered to foreign individuals, fore ign organizations and firms, or foreign governments; (8) Myanmar na- tionals receiving their pay in foreign currency f rom foreign f irms abroad for services rendered as agents; (9) Myanmar nationals receiving rentals in foreign currency for their tangible and intangible assets; (10) Myanmar nationals receiving fore ign currency in inheritance owing to the death of their relatives; (11) Myanmar nationals receiving for- eign currency in compensation f rom fore ign f i rms and insurance companies owing to an accident causing dea th or disability while serving with fo r- eign firms; and (12) Myanmar nationals receiving foreign currency in the fo rm of g if ts or presents f rom a blood relative living abroad or on a f r iend ly basis. A foreign currency account may be opened in any of the following currencies: deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Account holders are allowed to use funds from their accounts to purchase air tickets for family visits abroad and to make payments for per- sonal imports and for examination fees for their children. With prior approval, they may also pay for medical treatment abroad. (c) Under the Union of Myanmar Foreign Invest- ment Law enacted on November 30,1988, economic organizations formed with permits issued by the Union of Myanmar Investment Commission and foreigners employed by such economic organiza- tions are required to open both a foreign currency account and a kyat account. Under the same law, the following may be transferred abroad through a bank with the approval of the Commission: (1) for- eign currency belonging to the person who has brought in foreign capital; (2) foreign currency per- mitted by the Commission to be withdrawn by the person who has brought in foreign capital; (3) net profits remaining after all taxes and prescribed funds have been deducted from the annual profits received by the person who has brought in foreign capital; and (4) balances of salary and lawful income obtained by the foreign person during performance of service in the state and remaining after payments of taxes and deduction of living expenses incurred by him and his family. A few items that may not be imported from any source are opium and other narcotics, playing cards, and gold and silver bullion, among others. An import program is prepared annually as part of the foreign exchange budget drawn up by the Ministry of Planning and Finance. All imports in- volving use of official foreign exchange are made by the public sector through the ministries. With a few exceptions, imports by the private sector are re- quired to be covered by import licenses. State eco- nomic enterprises may import goods for their own use and for resale without applying for import li- censes, whereas government departments may im- port only for their own use. Imports by government departments are exempted from prescribed fees but those by the private sector are not. Most imports are purchased on an f .o .b. basis, and shipments are made on vessels owned or chartered by the Myan- mar Five Star Shipping Corporation wherever possible. All payments for imports not originating from border trade are made through the Myanma For- eign Trade Bank and the Myanma Investment and Commercial Bank. State economic enterprises ob- tain foreign exchange directly from the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank within the approved foreign exchange budget after endorsement by the respec- tive ministries. Myanmar nationals who have opened foreign currency accounts are allowed to make payments for personal imports without limit with the funds from their accounts. Myanmar nationals who have not yet opened foreign currency accounts while they are working abroad under official permits may make payments on their personal imports out of their accumulated savings of legitimate funds. My- anmar nationals and other travelers may bring in a reasonable amount of personal and other classified goods when they enter the country. Border imports require permits. Payments for border imports may be effected directly from the proceeds from border exports. Exporters of agricultural products, forest products, and fisheries products are encouraged to import selected items that will contribute to the production in these sectors up to the amount equiv- alent to 25 percent of export value (Ministry of Trade Press Communique No. 5/91, dated July 12, 1991). Imports and Import Payments Import trade may be conducted with any country without restriction, except with countries that have been placed under the UN embargo resolutions or with whom Myanmar has severed diplomatic relations. Payments for Invisibles There are no licensing requirements for pay- ments in connection with foreign trade handled by the public sector. All payments for invisibles outside the public sector are subject to licensing and are considered on a case-by-case basis. Payments for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MYANMAR 335 membership fees to educational or technical institu- tions abroad and payments for subscriptions to cer- tain foreign periodicals are, as a rule, allowed freely. Family remittances are permitted only for foreign technicians employed under contract by the Gov- ernment; the limit is one half of the net salary if the wife is living abroad, and one third of the net salary if the wife is living in Myanmar. Outward remit- tances of insurance premium payments other than for the Myanma Insurance Corporation are not per- mitted. The remittance of pension payments to re- tired government employees is permitted only if the persons concerned have been nonnationals throughout their term of service and are now resid- ing in their native countries. Most personal money order remittances to neighboring countries through post offices are not permitted. Residents who have been granted an official per- mit to travel abroad may take out freely $50 and the equivalent of K100 in the currency of the country of destination or, if that currency is not available, also in U.S. dollar notes. Nonresidents leaving Myanmar within six months of arriving may take out any balance of foreign currency they brought in with them and may also reconvert the remaining balance of the kyats obtained by conversion of foreign currency. The exportation of Myanmar currency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Export trade may be conducted with any country without restriction, except with countries that have been placed under the UN embargo resolutions or with whom Myanmar has severed diplomatic relations. In practice, state agencies responsible for produc- tion may export any product in excess of what is needed for domestic consumption. Special permits are required for exports of antiques. The state eco- nomic enterprises handle the exportation of a few products, such as teak, petroleum and natural gas, pearls, jade, and precious stones and metals. The exportation of these products and other controlled items may be permitted by foreign or domestic firms in the private sector. Rice is exported by the My- anma Agricultural Produce Trading in the name of the Myanma Export-Import Services; private traders and cooperatives are also permitted to ex- port a number of beans and pulses, rattan, flour, and cut flowers under valid export permits that are issued by the Ministry of Trade. Certain products, including rice, teak, rubber, petroleum, hides, leather, a number of beans and pulses, maize, cot- ton, and groundnuts, may not be exported through the border. Export proceeds must be obtained in a manner satisfactory to the exchange control authorities. An export-retention scheme is in operation, under which 100 percent of foreign exchange proceeds from exports may be retained by the same individ- ual trader or cooperative responsible for exporta- tion. When exports are made on an f .o .b. basis, buyers are free to choose the carrier, but exports on a c . i . f. basis must normally be shipped by the Myan- mar Five Star Shipping Corporation or on vessels chartered or nominated by it. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered unless special permission to retain them is granted by the exchange control authorities, who may grant such permission to foreign nationals re- siding in Myanmar in connection with official busi- ness. Travelers may bring in, subject to declaration, any amount in foreign currency; foreign nationals who intend to stay for more than six months must surrender all foreign exchange in their possession unless special permission is given to the contrary. The importation of Myanmar currency is pro- hibited. Myanmar nationals working abroad with permission from the Government are required to repatriate part of their gross earnings in foreign exchange. In the case of Myanmar seamen serving abroad, the repatriation requirement is 25 percent of basic pay, and the kyat equivalent is credited to their bank accounts. Myanmar nationals working abroad in international organizations and not subject to income tax are required to repatriate 10 percent of their gross earnings in foreign exchange; the kyat equivalent is credited to the accounts of such na- tionals or their families. Myanmar nationals work- ing abroad in private organizations are required to transfer to Myanmar as tax 10 percent of their gross earnings in foreign exchange through embassies in their country of residence. In addition, if their an- nual earnings exceed $5,000, they are required to remit home between 2 percent and 10 percent of their earnings, based on the length of their stay abroad. Capital Under the Union of Myanmar Foreign Invest- ment Law enacted on November 30, 1988 by the Union of Myanmar State Law and Order Restora- tion Council, the Foreign Investment Commission is empowered to accept proposals for investment in Myanmar f rom a fore igner for (1) fu ll owner- ship, and (2) a jo int ven ture, w i th the share of fore ign capital represen t ing at least 35 percent of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 336 MYANMAR the to tal capital. To fac i l i ta te and promote foreign investment, the Commission may grant exemp- tion f rom customs duties on machinery and equip- ment imported du r ing construction of the pro jec t, and f rom the income tax for a period of up to three consecutive years including the year when pro- duction of goods and services began, or for more than three years, depend ing upon the success of the en terpr ise. The Government guarantees that an economic enterprise formed under a permit will not be na- tionalized during the term of the contract, or during an extended term, if so extended. Capital and profits are permitted to be transferred abroad through foreign currency accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Gold Residents may hold and trade in gold jewelry, gold coins, and unworked gold in Myanmar. Li- censes for imports and exports of gold are not granted unless they are e f fec ted by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Jewelry for personal wear may be brought into Myanmar, subject to customs declaration at the port of arrival. The exportation of personal jewelry is permitted under license, subject to the condition that the jewelry will be repa tr ia ted. No conditions are attached, however, to the taking out of personal jewe lry that was declared to customs when it was brought into Myanmar. Changes During 1991 Resident and Nonresident Accounts October 13. Transfers of balances between foreign exchange account holders were permitted with approval. Exports and Export Proceeds October 25. The list of products not allowed in border exports was expanded to 23 items. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NAMIBIA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement Exchange Control Territory The currency of Namibia is the South African Rand. The exchange market in Namibia is managed by the South African Reserve Bank, whose principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. On Decem- ber 31, 1991, the commercial banks' spot rates for the U.S. dollar in transactions with the public were US$0.37 buying and US$0.36 selling per R 1. Spot and forward exchange operations are regu- lated by the exchange control and banking regula- tions of South Africa. Authorized dealers are per- mitted to conduct forward exchange operations, including cover, for transactions by residents in any foreign currency in respect of authorized trade and nontrade transactions. Forward exchange contracts may cover the entire period of the outstanding commitments/accruals. Forward exchange cover may also be provided to nonresidents subject to certain limitations. Forward cover is provided in U.S. dollars only; such cover is given to authorized dealers for maturities not exceeding 12 months at a time in the form of rand-U.S. dollar swap transac- tions with a margin based on an interest rate dif- ferential between the U.S. dollar and the rand. Spe- cial rand forward cover at preferential rates is provided in respect of import financing offered to and accepted by Namibian importers. Such special forward cover must coincide with the redemption date of relevant financing and may not be canceled before maturity. Gold mining companies/houses may sell forward anticipated receipts of their fu tu re gold sales. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Under the financial rand system of the Common Monetary Area (CMA)—a single exchange control territory comprising Lesotho, Namibia, South Af- rica, and Swaziland—local sales and redemption proceeds of CMA securities and other investments owned by non-CMA residents, capital remittances by emigrants and immigrants, and approved out- ward capital transfers by residents are not allowed to be transferred in foreign currency but must be retained in the form of financial rand balances. These balances are transferable among nonresi- dents at a freely determined exchange rate, and the exchange rate for the financial rand is usually at a discount from the commercial rand rate. These bal- ances may be used to purchase securities (quoted and unquoted) and to finance investments in new firms and certain properties. Namibia is part of the CMA. No restrictions are applied to payments within the CMA. In its rela- tions with countries outside the CMA, Namibia ap- plies exchange controls that are almost identical to those of other CMA members. Administration of Control The Bank of Namibia, on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, controls all external currency transactions. Import and export permits, where required, are issued by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. The authorized dealers automatically provide foreign exchange for imports from outside the Southern African Customs Union (SACU)1 upon presentation of necessary documents. Advance payments for im- ports require the approval of the Bank of Namibia. Prescription of Currency All countries outside the CMA constitute the nonresident area. The rand is legal tender in Namibia and Lesotho but not in Swaziland. Nonresident Accounts The rand accounts of nonresidents2 are divided into nonresident accounts, financial rand accounts, and emigrant blocked accounts. The regulations that apply to these accounts in South Africa apply in Namibia. Imports and Import Payments There are no restrictions on imports originating in any country of the SACU. Imports from countries outside the SACU are usually licensed in confor- mity with South Africa's import regulations. For purposes of import permit issuance, Schedule IA of the Import Control Regulations of South Africa is currently enforced. These permits are valid for one year, are expressed in value terms, and are valid for imports from any country outside the SACU. At present, about 90 percent of imports require a per- mit. Namibia has the right to restrict certain imports irThe members of the SACU are Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland. 2A nonresident is a person ( that is, a na tural person or legal entity) whose normal place of residence, domicile, or registration is outside the CMA. 337 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 338 NAMIBIA (through customs duties or quantitative restric- tions) from countries outside the SACU and from countries of the SACU under certain conditions. A wide range of imports f rom countries outside the SACU is subject to a general sales tax of 11 percent (as are locally produced goods) and to surcharges ranging from 7.5 percent on certain food s tu f fs to 40 percent on nonessential luxury goods. Payments for Invisibles Authorized dealers are empowered to approve trade-related invisible payments without limitation and other invisible payments up to established limits, as follows: (1) annual allowances for tourist travel of R 17,000 for an adult and R 8,500 for a child under 12 years (basic annual allowances for travel to the neighboring countries —Angola, Botswana, Ma- lawi, Mozambique, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbab- we —are R 5,500 for an adult and R 2,750 for a child under 12 years); (2) business travel allowances at a rate not exceeding R 1,500 a day, with a maximum of R 25,000 in a calendar year (allowances for business travel to the neighboring countries mentioned above are at a rate not exceeding R 800 a day, with a maximum of R 11,000 a year). Residents leaving Namibia for destinations outside the CMA are al- lowed to take the full applicable allowance in foreign bank notes. A larger amount may be granted on presentation of documented proof of need. There are no prescribed limits on remittances for educa- tion and family maintenance, and reasonable amounts are granted on a case-by-case basis. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports are permitted without a license and are shipped through South Africa. Permits are re- quired for the exportation of goods in short supply to the non-SACU area. All export proceeds are normally required to be remitted to Namibia and surrendered within six months of shipment or within seven days of the date of accrual. In order to enforce the repatriation requirement, exporters are required to cover for- ward their export proceeds within seven days of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered within seven days of the date of accrual, unless exemption is obtained. Upon entry from countries outside the CMA, residents and nonresidents may bring in R 500 in South African Reserve Bank notes. There are no limitations on the importation of do- mestic currency from Lesotho and Swaziland. Capital All capital transfers to and from destinations out- side the CMA in the form of loans are subject to specific approval from the Bank of Namibia. Ap- proval is generally given for borrowing abroad with a maturity of at least six months by domestic en- trepreneurs, except for speculation or consumer credit. Authorized dealers are generally permitted to raise funds abroad in their own names for the financing of Namibia's foreign trade and for other approved purposes. Inward transfers of capital from non-CMA countries for equity investment are freely permitted, whereas applications by residents to retain in, or transfer to, countries outside the CMA funds for bona fide long-term investments in specific development projects or for the expansion of existing projects owned or controlled by residents are considered on their own merits. Proceeds f rom the sale of quoted or unquoted South African securities, real estate, and other eq- uity investments by nonresidents are transferable only through the medium of financial rand. Non- residents are not allowed to purchase farms and residential properties with financial rand. Families emigrating to destinations outside the CMA are granted the normal travel (tourist) allowance and are permitted to remit up to R 200,000 (R 100,000 for single persons) through the medium of financial rand. Any balance exceeding this limit must be credited to an emigrant blocked account; the bal- ance, including earned income, can be transferred under prescribed conditions. Immigrants are re- quired to furnish the exchange control authorities with a complete return of their foreign assets and liabilities at the time of their arrival. Any foreign assets they transfer to South Africa may, through the same channel, be retransferred abroad within the first three years of their arrival. Gold Residents are permitted to purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Namibia for numismatic and in- vestment purposes only. All exports and imports of gold require the prior approval of the monetary authorities. Changes During 1991 Payments for Invisibles October 1. The limits on annual allowances for tourist travel to neighboring countries were raised to R 5,500 from R 4,000 for an adult and to R 2,750 from R 2,000 for a child under 12 years; the limits on annual allowances for tourist travel to other coun- tries were raised to R 17,000 f rom R 10,000 for an ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NAMIBIA 339 adult and to R 8,500 from R 5,000 for a child under 12 years. The daily allowance for business travel to neighboring countries was raised to R 800 from R 600, and the maximum for a calendar year was raised to R 11,000 from R 8,000; the daily allowance for business travel to other countries was raised to R 1,500 a day from R 750 a day, and the maximum for a calendar year was raised to R 25,000 from R 15,000. Proceeds from Invisibles June 1. The maximum amount of South African Reserve Bank notes that may be brought in upon entry from countries outside the CMA was raised to R 500 from R 200. Capital June 1. The maximum amount a family emigrat- ing to countries outside the CMA is allowed to remit abroad (in addition to normal tourist travel al- lowance) was increased to R 200,000 from R 100,000 and to R 100,000 from R 50,000 for an individual (these remittances must continue to be made through the medium of financial rand). Changes During 1992 Exchange Control Territory April 1. Namibia became part of the Common Monetary Area (CMA). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Nepal is the Nepalese Rupee. The exchange rate of the Nepalese rupee is determined on the basis of its relationship to a currency basket. On December 31, 1991, the official buying and sell- ing rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, were NRs 42.700 and NRs 42.981, respec- tively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates are quoted daily for certain other currencies,1 with quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. Convertibility be- tween the Indian rupee and the Nepalese rupee is unrestricted in Nepal, and the Indian rupee may be used to effect all bona fide transactions; purchases of Indian currency in excess of Rs 10,000 must be documented, and the purpose must be specified. Forward exchange cover is available only in U.S. dol- lars for trade transactions and is provided only by authorized banks. Administration of Control Permission is required from the Nepal Rasta Bank (NRB) for all payments in convertible currencies except for import payments and certain other spec- ified payments. The Department of Commerce ad- ministers the licensing of imports from countries other than India. Each government ministry re- ceives an allocation under the foreign exchange budget. The Ministry of Commerce is also responsi- ble for licensing exports to countries other than India, where required. All exchange transactions must be settled through authorized dealers (the Nepal Bank Ltd., Nepal Arab Bank, Nepal Grind- lay's Bank, Indo Suez Bank, and the Rastriya Bani- jya Bank). Nonbank authorized dealers are licensed to accept foreign currencies only for their services to foreign nationals. Prescription of Currency All current transactions with member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) other than India (Bangladesh, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Myan- mar, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka) must be effected Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Indian rupees, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and Singapore dollars. In addi- tion, buying rates are quoted for Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Saudi Arabian riyals, and Swedish kroner. through the ACU. Payments for imports from India may be settled in Indian rupees. Proceeds of exports to India may be obtained in Indian rupees, while proceeds from exports to other countries must be received in any of the quoted convertible currencies for which the NRB quotes buying and selling rates. Foreign Currency Accounts Commercial banks may accept deposits denomi- nated in deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds ster- ling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars, and they are free to determine the rate of interest paid on such deposits. Eligibility for opening such accounts is limited, however, to (1) Nepalese residents who can identify the sources of funds deposited; (2) Nepal- ese citizens earning foreign exchange from working abroad (except in Bhutan and India) for more than six months; (3) international organizations and for- eign nationals; and (4) Bhutanese and Indian cit- izens residing in countries other than Bhutan, In- dia, or Nepal. Current accounts may be opened with a minimum of $500 (or the equivalent), and time deposits with a minimum of $3,000 (or the equivalent). Nonresidents can withdraw their de- posits at any time, and these can be converted into any convertible currency at the authorized banks. Nonresident Accounts The NRB permits foreign diplomats, foreign na- tionals working in projects financed with foreign- donated funds under bilateral or multilateral agree- ments with the government, and nonresidents to open convertible rupee accounts and currency desig- nated accounts with Nepalese banks. Convertible rupee accounts may be maintained only in Nepalese rupees, and currency designated accounts may be maintained in all convertible currencies with the prior approval of the NRB. Balances on these accounts may be freely transferred abroad. Accounts in Indian cur- rency may be opened only under special arrange- ments. Foreign currencies brought into or received in Nepal by nonresidents, which are converted into Nepalese rupees and deposited with a Nepalese bank, can be reconverted for transfer out of the coun- try, subject to the prior approval of the NRB. Imports and Import Payments Import arrangements vary, depending on the source, user/importer, and commodity in question. 340 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL 341 Imports from India generally do not require import licenses but are subject to documentation require- ments. All imports of goods from countries other than India, except imports under baggage rules, require import licenses and are subject to quantita- tive import restrictions. The licensing of imports from third countries is administered by various ministries, which receive a foreign exchange alloca- tion under the annual foreign exchange budget. Imports for licensing purposes are classified by end user and fall into the following five broad categories: industries; government offices; corporations, or- ganizations, and missions; commercial; and per- sonal. The Ministry of Commerce administers the issuance of licenses. Industrial imports must be ap- proved by the Ministry of Industry and Labor before licenses are issued, with exceptions for certain items. Goods may be imported under several cate- gories depending on the end user, in which case d ifferent license premiums apply. Imports of certain items, such as cigarettes and matches, goods considered harmful to health, arms, ammunition and explosives, wireless trans- mitters, precious metals, and jewelry (except under baggage rules), require special permission from the Government. Imports of several items, including beef, washing sdap (except from India), and de- tergent powder, are banned. Imports of certain industrial raw materials are processed through the passbook system, which is administered by the Ministry of Industry and Labor. Under this system, industrialists are given an an- nual entitlement for specified inputs imported f rom countries other than India based on the previous year's production level and the current year's pro- duction program, with the possibility of renewal and adjustment if production levels change. The entitlement and actual utilization are recorded in the passbook. Approval for a license is readily granted up to the annual entitlement, af ter the use of the previous imports has been verified. Af ter this, the Ministry of Commerce automatically issues the import licenses, and the NRB normally grants foreign exchange approval. More liberal conditions apply to raw materials, intermediate inputs, and final goods that are im- ported under open general license (OGL). In the case of raw wool, trading companies and actual users are automatically given import licenses with- out review of past use or a passbook. Other OGL items require a passbook, but are subject to less frequent reviews of past use than under the basic passbook system. In the case of iron billets, a review is undertaken annually. Imports of metal for handicraft industries (except silver) are carried out through special importing companies for cottage industries, and they receive a special allocation of foreign exchange. Because sil- ver handicrafts are being promoted, silver is im- ported by the NRB and sold to silver jewelers and handcraft-exporting industries through the com- mercial banks. Import licenses are also auctioned every other month for specified goods. Goods imported under the import license auction system are classified into the categories of (1) essential goods and raw mate- rials; and (2) consumer goods. The total value of import licenses to be auctioned depends on the available amount of foreign exchange. In addition, a separate auction exists for small enterprises. For- eign exchange is automatically provided to success- ful bidders at the official exchange rate. A fee of 1 percent of the value of the license is imposed for all imports, including import licenses that are auctioned, with the exception of personal imports for which the license fee varies according to the goods to be imported and the source of finance. Margin deposits are required on letters of credit as follows: (1) 10 percent for industrial raw materials, machinery, and spare parts if imported by regis- tered industries or allied trading enterprises; (2) 20 percent for development and construction materials (such as cement, iron and iron rods, and corrugated sheets), dairy products, writing paper, newsprint, agricultural products, medical equip- ment, and educational and scientific materials; and (3) 30 percent for all other imports. Nepalese citizens returning f rom abroad who have spent at least 15 nights out of the country are allowed to bring in goods worth NRs 1,000, free of customs duties and sales taxes. In addition, they can import, without license but subject to customs duties and taxes, special goods worth up to NRs 15,000 twice a year. Those who have official sources of foreign exchange earnings and have stayed abroad for more than one month are allowed additional imports. Payments for Invisibles For travel to countries other than India for medi- cal treatment, exchange allowances are granted as recommended by a panel of doctors. Students studying at their own expense in these countries are granted exchange allowances covering expenses for boarding, lodging, and tuition fees on the recom- mendation of the Ministry of Education. Foreign exchange is made available for certain business trips but is restricted for tourist travel abroad. Payments for other invisibles depend on the essentiality of the transaction. Nepalese and Indian currencies may be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 342 NEPAL taken out freely to India only by Nepalese and In- dian nationals; these currencies may not be ex- ported to countries other than India. Foreign bank notes, other than Indian bank notes, may not be taken out by residents without permission. Non- residents may take out the unchanged amount of any foreign bank notes they brought in; however, nonresidents, other than Indian nationals, may not take out Nepalese or Indian bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of items having archaeological and re- ligious importance and certain other exports, in- cluding old coins, narcotics, and explosive mate- rials, are prohibited. The re-exportation to India of non-Nepalese goods and the re-exportation to any destination of goods imported from India are prohibited. Licenses are required for exports of ready-made garments, rice, maize, wheat, pulses, oilseeds, and industrial raw materials to all countries other than India. Exports of ready-made garments to the United States are restricted to an annual volume growth of 6 percent. A minimum price system is maintained for all exports to countries other than India. The Industrial Enterprises Act of 1987 provided for refunds of import duties paid by exporters and for bonded warehouses. However, the introduction of these facilities is still at an early stage. A duty relief scheme has been set up only for the ready- made garments industry, and this operates in con- junction with the bonded warehouse scheme. When exporters purchase imports from the bonded warehouses, the duty payable is lodged in an es- crow bank account and is released when the gar- ments made from these imports are exported and the required documentation is provided to verify the use of the imports. Proceeds from exports (in f .o .b. value) must be surrendered to the authorized banks within six months of shipment. Exports valued at more than $1,000 to countries other than India are allowed only against irrevocable letters of credit. Foreign tourists leaving Nepal may take out as souvenirs, without permission, Nepalese goods whose value does not exceed the value of foreign currency exchanged in Nepal. Commercial banks may grant pre-export credit of up to 70 percent of the f .o .b. value of products specified by the Government to all individuals and institutions holding irrevocable letters of credit opened or endorsed by foreign banks acceptable to the Nepalese banks. Such credit may be provided for a maximum period of three months; this period may be extended without penalty under special cir- cumstances beyond the control of the exporter. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds derived from transac- tions in invisibles must be surrendered to the NRB or an authorized bank at the official rate of ex- change. Nepalese and Indian currency may be brought in only from India, and only by Nepalese and Indian nationals; these currencies may not be imported from countries other than India. When extending their visas, non-Indian tourists are re- quired to produce evidence that they have con- verted a minimum of $20 at the official rate of ex- change for each day's stay. Nonresidents other than Indian nationals are not allowed to bring in Nepalese or Indian bank notes. Residents and non- residents may freely bring in other foreign bank notes but must declare them if the amount exceeds the equivalent of $2,000. Capital No conditions are specified concerning receipts and remittances in respect of capital transactions, but official exchange is not normally provided for capital remittances by N^palese nationals. Nepalese citizens, whether or not they reside in Nepal, are prohibited from making any type of investment in foreign countries, except investment specifically ex- empted by government notice; the exemptions in- clude the purchase and sale of insurance policies abroad, investments abroad by any banking or fi- nancial institution incorporated in Nepal, and the purchase of shares of foreign companies under a rights issue. Foreign investors who have obtained an invest- ment guarantee are eligible for outward remittances in respect of the following items: all or part of the sales proceeds of investment, dividends, interest, or principal repayment; amounts arising from the transfer of technology; and compensations on ac- quired assets. The Industrial Enterprises Act of 1987 contains provisions regarding local equity require- ments for foreign investment in enterprises. For- eign investment is not permitted in cottage, small- scale, or defense-related industries. Foreign inves- tors can hold 100 percent equity in large-scale indus- tries and up to 50 percent in medium-scale indus- tries. Small-scale industries are defined as those with fixed assets valued at up to NRs 3 million; for medium-scale industries, the asset value limit is up to NRs 10 million, and those with fixed assets in excess of NRs 10 million are considered large-scale industries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL 343 Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Nepal. Imports of gold are banned, except under baggage rules. Changes During 1991 Foreign Currency Accounts December 1. The regulations governing foreign currency deposits were liberalized to include de- posits in deutsche mark, Japanese yen, and Swiss francs. In addition, the eligibility requirements for Nepalese residents to open foreign currency ac- counts were liberalized. Imports and Import Payments April 15. Goods permitted to be imported under the import license auction system were re- classified into two categories from five: (1) essenti- al goods and raw materials, and (2) consumer goods. August 5. A special auction system for small enter- prises was introduced. Proceeds from Invisibles September 10. The minimum amount of foreign exchange non-Indian tourists are required to spend daily was increased to $20 from $10. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Netherlands is the Nether- lands Guilder. The Netherlands participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Portugal, Spain, and the United Kingdom in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism (ERM) of the European Monetary Sys- tem (EMS).1 In accordance with this agreement, the Netherlands maintains the spot exchange rates be- tween the Netherlands guilder and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 2.25 per- cent (in the case of the Portuguese escudo, the pound sterling, and the Spanish peseta, 6 percent) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Netherlands Bank stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1991, the rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates per: Netherlands Guilders Upper limit Lower limit 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 deutsche mark 100 French francs 1 Irish pound 1,000 Italian lire 1,000 Portuguese escudos1 1 pound sterling 100 Spanish pesetas Effective April 6, 1992. 5.5870 30.2100 115.2350 34.3600 3.0870 1.5400 13.7600 3.5295 1.8405 5.3415 28.8825 110.1675 32.8475 2.9510 1.4725 12.2100 3.1305 1.6325 The participants in the EMS do not maintain ex- change rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper functioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the intervention cur- rencies being mainly each other's, the ECU, and the U.S. dollar. The authorized banks quote buying and selling rates for all major foreign currencies. On Decem- ber 31,1991, the middle rate for the U.S. dollar was f. 1.7104 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized banks are freely permitted to buy and sell convertible and nonconvertible currencies, both spot and forward; they are free to deal with resi- dents and nonresidents, whether banks or non- banks. Forward exchange contracts are not limited as to delivery period, nor is an underlying trade transaction required. Nonbank residents are free to hold Netherlands guilder and foreign currency ac- counts in the Netherlands and abroad. The Kingdom of the Netherlands formally ac- cepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory Transactions with the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba are subject to the same exchange controls as transactions with other countries. With regard to any third countries with which payments agree- ments might be in force, the Netherlands, the Netherlands Antilles, and Aruba will, if so stipu- lated, constitute the Netherlands Monetary Area. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Nether- lands Bank on behalf of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs, Finance, Economic Affairs, and Agricul- ture, Nature Management, and Fisheries. Import and export licensing, including transit trade,2 is handled by the Central Import-Export Agency (CDIU) and the delegated offices, under directives from the Directorate-General for Foreign Economic Relations. For their payments to and receipts from nonresidents, residents are generally required to use the intermediation of banks or other domestic institutions or persons authorized by the Nether- lands Bank to handle these exchange transactions within the scope of the regulations based on the External Financial Relations Act of 1980 (see section on Capital, below). To facilitate the compilation of the balance of payments, residents are required to indicate on reporting forms, for all payments to and receipts from nonresidents exceeding f. 25,000, the nature of the underlying transaction as well as the !With effect from April 6, 1992, Portugal participates in the ERM of the EMS. 2The only transit trade transactions still subject to specific license are purchases and sales of strategic goods. 344 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS 345 currency and amount paid or received. Separate regulations govern the reporting of settlements where no transfer of money is involved. Residents are free to open and maintain bank accounts abroad and to maintain current accounts abroad for the purpose of settlements. The Nether- lands Bank must be notified of such accounts, and entries in them are to be reported to the Bank in accordance with the related regulations. Prescription of Currency In effecting payments to nonresidents or collect- ing receipts from them, residents may use guilders or any foreign currency. Payments in any foreign currency between residents may be made freely. There are no bilateral payments agreements in force. Nonresidents are free to open and maintain nonresident accounts with authorized banks in the Netherlands in guilders or in any foreign currency, and to effect payments to, or collect receipts from, residents. All payments or receipts are freely per- mitted, as are transfers of balances to and from other nonresident accounts. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for imports originat- ing in Hong Kong, Japan, and state trading coun- tries,3 as well as for the importation of goods of unknown origin. In addition, import licenses are required for a limited number of products, mainly those of the agricultural, steel, and textile sectors. Except for imports of textiles originating in the Far East and in state trading countries, most imports that require an import license are free from quan- titative restriction. Most imports from Eastern Euro- pean countries are formally liberalized. Imports from non-European Community (EC) countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) of the EC are subject to import levies that have replaced all previous bar- riers to imports; common EC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. Payments for imports may be made freely, pro- vided that the method of payment conforms to the relevant exchange control regulations (that is, trans- fers are properly reported). Payments for Invisibles Payments abroad for invisibles are permitted freely. Residents may take out any amount in for- 3State trading countries are defined for this purpose as consist- ing of China, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet Nam. eign and domestic bank notes and coins or docu- ments of value; these may be used for traveling expenses abroad, as well as for purchases for which payment in cash is customary in the trade con- cerned. Payments for interest, dividends, and con- tractual amortization due to nonresidents are per- mitted freely. Nonresidents may export all unused documents of value for travel purposes, as well as foreign and Netherlands bank notes and coins that they have imported or have obtained in the Netherlands by drawing on their accounts or by exchanging other currencies. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports to Iraq are prohibited. Export li- censes are required for only a few commodities, mostly of a strategic character, for some agricultural products, and for iron and steel scrap and related products. Residents may freely grant credit in respect of exports of commodities. The surrender of export proceeds is not obligatory. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no requirements attached to receipts by residents from current invisibles. Nonresidents may bring into the Netherlands for travel purposes any amount of foreign bank notes and documents of value; these may be used for traveling expenses in the Netherlands, as well as for purchases for which payment in cash is customary in the trade concerned. Capital There is no exchange control in the Netherlands apart from reporting requirements based on the External Financial Relations Act of 1980, except when current payments and capital transactions are interwoven, as in payment intervals relating to trade transactions. External capital transactions are unrestricted. For direct investment in the form of capital participa- tions (inward and outward), no license is required. Neither short-term lending (for less than two years) nor long-term lending to nonresidents (whether af- filiated companies or others) requires a license. Pur- suant to the Netherlands Bank's arrangements, is- sues of guilder-denominated bearer paper on behalf of residents and nonresidents (both interest- bearing with a maturity term of two years or more and shares) of f. 50 million or over must be reported to the Netherlands Bank by the lead managers at least one working day before the announcement of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 346 NETHERLANDS an issue in the market. The Netherlands Bank's approval is not required for the timing of an issue. For all issues of guilder-denominated bearer paper, management requirements are in force. Lead man- agers must be entered in the register of credit in- stitutions of the Netherlands Bank, and must have a full-fledged securities/issuing department in the Netherlands. In addition, reciprocity requirements apply. Transactions between residents and nonresidents in all stocks and bonds listed on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange take place at official market ex- change rates and are unrestricted. Residents may freely purchase officially listed securities abroad. Placement with residents of unlisted foreign deben- tures denominated in guilders (such as foreign Euro-guilder notes) and transactions in unlisted stocks are free of license. Nonresidents may have their securities, domestic or foreign, exported to them; securities held in the Netherlands are not subject to deposit. Nonresidents may freely purchase real estate in the Netherlands for personal use or investment, and residents may freely purchase real estate abroad. Extension of payment and mortgage bor- rowing from nonresidents is free of license. Gifts and donations to nonresidents are free. Emi- grants may export any amount in foreign and do- mestic currency. They acquire nonresident status upon leaving the Netherlands and may upon depar- ture have remitted to them their total assets in the Netherlands. Nonresidents inheriting from estates in the Netherlands may have the proceeds trans- ferred to them freely. There are no restrictions on commercial banks' spot external positions for foreign exchange control reasons. However, for supervision reasons, limits are imposed on banks' total position in foreign cur- rency and precious metals. In this context, the banks are required to report their position in each foreign currency and precious metal (spot, forward, and option positions) at the end of each month. Authorized banks may freely extend foreign cur- rency and guilder loans to nonresidents. The banks' freedom to accept deposits from nonresidents and to borrow abroad is unrestricted. All capital transfers by residents must be re- ported to the Balance of Payments Department of the Netherlands Bank. Totals of security transac- tions must be reported periodically by securities brokers and authorized banks or, if transactions take place through a foreign bank account, by the resi- dent parties concerned. Gold Neither the Netherlands Bank nor any govern- ment agency imports or markets gold for industrial use. Authorized banks and nonbank residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold (fine gold, gold coins, and gold alloys) in the Netherlands or abroad. Imports and exports of gold do not require exchange licenses or import and export licenses. There is a free gold market in Amsterdam. Except for transactions of the Netherlands Bank, transfers of gold in bars and other elementary forms are sub- ject to a value-added tax of 6 percent, as are domes- tic sales of gold coins. All other gold transactions are taxed at 18.5 percent. Commercial imports of gold jewelry and of articles containing minor quantities of gold, such as watches, require import licenses only when they originate in Hong Kong, Japan, or state trading countries. Changes During 1991 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EC-wide basis during 1991, page 557.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES1 (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Netherlands Antilles is the Netherlands Antillean Guilder, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at NA f. 1.7900 per US$1. The official buying rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1991 were NA f. 1.77 per US$1 for bank notes and NA f. 1.78 per US$1 for drafts, checks, and transfers. The offi- cial selling rate was NA f. 1.80 per US$1. The Bank of the Netherlands Antilles (the central bank) deals with commercial banks within margins of 0.00279 percent on either side of the official buying and selling rates; on December 31,1991, the buying and selling rates were NA f. 1.7895 and N A f. 1.7905, respectively, per US$1. Official buying and selling rates for certain other currencies2 are set daily on the basis of rates for the U.S. dollar abroad. A foreign exchange tax of 1.3 percent is levied on payments made by residents to nonresidents. Pur- chases of foreign exchange by resident companies with nonresident status for exchange control pur- poses are exempt from the exchange tax. There are no arrangements for forward cover against ex- change rate risk in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The central bank issues exchange licenses, where required. The Department of Commerce, Industry, and Employment issues import licenses, where re- quired. The central bank permits the commercial banks to provide foreign exchange for almost all current transactions without prior approval. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made in any currency except the legal tender of the Netherlands Antilles. Re- ceipts may be accepted in any convertible currency except the legal tender of the Netherlands Antilles. 1The Netherlands Antilles is a nonmetropolitan territory in respect of which the Kingdom of the Netherlands has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agreement. On January 1,1986, the island of Aruba, formerly a part of the Netherlands Antilles, became a separate nonmetropolitan territory within the Kingdom of the Netherlands. 2Aruban florins, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, European Currency Units, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Nether- lands guilders, pounds sterling, Suriname guilders, and Swiss francs. All currencies other than the Netherlands Antillean guilder are considered foreign currencies. All payments made by residents to nonresidents and receipts through authorized banks as well as through banks abroad must be reported to the cen- tral bank for the compilation of the balance of payments. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open nonresident ac- counts in any foreign currency. Nonresidents are permitted to hold nonresident accounts with autho- rized banks (positive balances) in Netherlands An- tillean guilders. Balances in such accounts may not exceed NA f. 200,000 without the approval of the central bank. Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports may be made freely. Im- ports whose delivery dates exceed payment dates by more than 12 months must be reported to the central bank. The importation of 58 items for which there are locally produced substitutes is subject to quotas of 40 percent of the total value of domestic production. Certain commodities are subject to im- port surcharges in Bonaire and Curasao. Payments for Invisibles All types of cu r rent invisible payments and re- mittances may be made freely. A license is re- quired if the delivery and payment dates are more than one year apart; the central bank must receive notification. Nonresidents may take with them on departure any foreign currency that they brought in. The ex- portation of Netherlands Antillean bank notes is prohibited, except for traveling purposes. Transfers of profits and dividends are allowed by the central bank upon application. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports do not require licenses. Residents are not required to surrender export proceeds. If export proceeds are not received within 12 months of ship- ment, the delay must be reported to the central bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents are not required to surrender invisible proceeds. Travelers may bring in with them any 347 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 348 NETHERLANDS ANTILLES amount of checks, traveler's checks, or bank notes denominated in foreign currency. Capital Foreign investments and transfers of loans to resi- dents in the Netherlands Antilles require licenses, which are normally granted. Outward flows of resident-owned capital are sub- ject to control. Investments by residents in real es- tate abroad as well as capital loans to nonresidents require a license. Investment and disinvestment by nonresidents in real estate in the Netherlands Antil- les do not require a license. Investment by residents in officially listed foreign securities (and in mutual funds whose shares are officially quoted) is permit- ted free of license up to NA f. 100,000 a year. Rein- vestment of proceeds from the sale of securities is also allowed. Residents are allowed to hold foreign bank ac- counts without a special license. Transfers from a local bank account to these foreign accounts are allowed up to NA f. 10,000 a quarter. Authorized banks' overall position with nonresi- dents is subject to limits set by the central bank, and must always be positive and in currencies listed in Article XXX of the Fund's Articles of Agreement and/or in Netherlands guilders. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in the Netherlands Antilles. Authorized banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and with other residents. Imports and exports of gold do not require a special license. Changes During 1991 Imports and Import Payments April 1. Quantitative restrictions on imports of a number of products that are domestically produced were replaced with ta r i f fs at rates ranging from 12 percent to 25 percent. It was announced that the remaining quantitative restrictions on goods pro- duced by established firms would be phased out over a three-year period and those on goods pro- duced by new firms would be phased out over a five-year period. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of New Zealand is the New Zealand Dollar. The New Zealand authorities do not main- tain margins in respect of exchange transactions; spot and forward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market, although the Reserve Bank of New Zealand retains discretionary power to inter- vene in the foreign exchange market. On Decem- ber 31,1991, the closing buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were US$0.5412 and US$0.5406, re- spectively, per $NZ 1. Foreign exchange dealers are free to ad just exchange rate quotations in response to market conditions throughout each business day. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Financial institutions are permitted to conclude with their customers forward exchange contracts to buy or sell foreign currencies in exchange for New Zealand dollars, irrespective of the purpose for which the funds are required or the source from which they are obtained, and they are free to set their own rates of forward transactions with their customers. Forward contracts may be either for a fixed term or for optional delivery dates. The Re- serve Bank does not maintain margins in respect of forward exchange transactions. On August 5, 1982, New Zealand formally ac- cepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Receipts and remittances of foreign exchange are free from controls. Until February 1990, the Reserve Bank of New Zealand continued to administer the remaining exchange control provisions, which were as follows: (1) exchange dealers must be authorized by the Reserve Bank; (2) except for transactions in- volving foreign currency bank notes, coins, and traveler's checks, which may be undertaken by any party, foreign exchange transactions must be han- dled by an authorized foreign exchange dealer; (3) for statistical purposes, except for small amounts, details of receipts and remittances are still required for receipts of foreign exchange from over- seas and for remittances of external payments; and (4) information required for the purposes of pru- dential supervision of foreign exchange dealers and the foreign exchange market must be provided to the Reserve Bank. From February 1990, following the abolition of exchange control regulations, no authorization is required to deal in foreign ex- change. Any remaining requirements relate only to providing statistical information and to prudential supervision of registered banks. The Overseas Investment Commission administers the regulations governing foreign direct investment in New Zealand; the licensing of imports and prohibited exports is the responsibility of the Ministry of Com- merce and the Customs Department, respectively. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from residents of countries other than New Zealand may be made or received in any foreign currency.1 Payment to and from New Zealand currency accounts held with banks in New Zealand by banks not domiciled in New Zealand is also an acceptable form of payment. Nonresident Accounts Overseas banks' accounts in New Zealand may be used for the settlement of transactions with other countries. Imports and Import Payments By July 1, 1988, import licensing had been abol- ished for all imports, except for those covered by industry plans. The only remaining import licens- ing, for clothing, was eliminated on July 1, 1992. Average tariff rates were reduced by approximately one half by July 1, 1992, under the program an- nounced in December 1987. In 1991, a program of fu r ther tariff reductions was announced for the period 1992-96, under which almost all tar iffs will be reduced by a fu r ther one third. Import prohibitions and restrictions a f fect some 70 products or classes of products. Most of these are maintained for reasons relating to plant and animal quarantine, or because the products are considered dangerous to human health or not in the public interest. However, some restrictions, including those on fresh fru i t, are maintained to ensure or- derly marketing in New Zealand. Under the terms of the Australia-New Zealand Closer Economic Relations and Trade Agreement foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than New Zealand currency. 349 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 350 NEW ZEALAND (ANZCERTA) and the South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement (SPAR- TECA),2 imports enter duty free from Australia and the SPARTECA countries. Quantitative restrictions and tar iffs on imports of goods from Australia were removed entirely by July 1,1990. In addition, under the ANZCERTA, with effect from July 1990, anti- dumping actions to be taken by the two govern- ments against each other's imports for purposes of redressing unfair trade practices were replaced by measures to be taken under domestic trade prac- tices legislation. Eligible imports from developing countries that have not graduated beyond a specified threshold are accorded tariff preferences under the Generalized System of Preferences. In addition, duty-free access is granted to most imports from 36 countries classi- fied as "least developed" by the United Nations. With a few exceptions, ta r i f fs are not imposed on finished goods that are not produced domestically. Payments for Invisibles Financial institutions are permitted to sell foreign exchange for invisible payments. The remittance abroad of dividends, interest, profits, and other forms of contractual obligation to nonresidents may be freely made, although there is a reporting re- quirement for statistical purposes. The ANZCERTA also provides a framework for the liberalization of trade in services between Australia and New Zealand subject to the foreign investment policies of both countries. It provides for free trade in services based on national treatment. All services are covered except for those on a negative list pre- pared by each government, which includes certain aspects of telecommunications, aviation, radio and television broadcasting, and postal services, bank- ing, insurance, and consultancy services. Exports and Export Proceeds There is no requirement that export earnings (in- cluding foreign currency earned for performing ser- vices in New Zealand for foreign nationals) be re- turned through the banking system. Certain items classified as strategic goods may be exported only when specific requirements have been met and an export permit has been issued. There are quotas and other quantitative restric- tions on exports of agricultural products, all of 2The islands under this arrangement are those constituting the South Pacific Forum (in addition to Australia and New Zealand) —Cook Islands, Fiji, Kiribati, Nauru, Niue, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanua tu, and Western Samoa. which are imposed in agreement with importing countries. Exports of lamb and butter to the Euro- pean Community are subject to quotas, and volun- tary export restraints are applied to exports of beef to the United States. Proceeds from Invisibles Remuneration for services provided or to be pro- vided in New Zealand for overseas residents by New Zealand residents (including corporate bodies ordinarily resident in New Zealand) and interest and dividends earned overseas from portfolio in- vestment are not required to be repatriated. The ANZCERTA provides for a liberalization of trade in services rendered by New Zealand residents in Australia, subject to certain conditions (as noted in the section on Payments for Invisibles, above). The disposal overseas by New Zealand residents of foreign income from other invisibles, such as interest and dividends, is permitted. Travelers may bring into the country unlimited amounts of foreign and domestic bank notes and coins. Capital In general, consent is not required in respect of capital receipts, although overseas entities seeking to establish themselves in New Zealand must, in some cases, obtain the approval of the Overseas Investment Commission. The Overseas Investment Regulations were liberalized, effective August 24, 1989. Nonresident persons or companies wishing to make a direct investment in a New Zealand com- pany by purchasing or exchanging shares are re- quired to obtain the consent of the Overseas Invest- ment Commission in respect of any proposed offer for such shares whenever the investment would confer on the offerer the beneficial entitlement of 25 percent or more of the voting power at any gen- eral meeting. However, if both the consideration and gross assets of the offeree company are less than $NZ 10 million, they are exempt from this requirement. The $NZ 10 million level also triggers the need for Overseas Investment Commission ap- proval where a foreign entity wishes to acquire the assets of a New Zealand company, or to establish a New Zealand subsidiary or branch. More restrictive rules apply in the commercial fishing and rural land sectors deemed to be "sensitive." The $NZ 10 mil- lion trigger level does not apply to investments in these sectors. Residents are permitted to purchase foreign ex- change for investment purposes. There are no restrictions on the transfer abroad of assets by emigrants. Remittance abroad of legacies ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND 351 from the estate of a New Zealand resident is freely permitted. tions or licensing requirements for the importation and exportation of gold. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in New Zealand without restriction. There are no res trie- Changes During 1991 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Nicaragua is the Cordoba, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at C$5 per US$1. On December 31, 1991, the buying and selling rates for the cordoba were C$5 per US$1 and C$5.1 per US$1, respectively1. Of- ficially recognized foreign exchange houses also buy and sell foreign exchange; at the end of Decem- ber 1991, the buying and selling rates were C$5.25 and C$5.45. In addition, there is an unrecognized parallel market in which the value of the cordoba varies with respect to the official rate. Only the Central Bank, the authorized commercial banks, and the authorized exchange houses can buy and sell foreign exchange; transactions outside the banking system and the authorized exchange houses are prohibited. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operat- ing in the official or the commercial banking sector. Foreign currency-denominated accounts can be opened in the banking system. Nicaragua accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from July 30, 1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is administered by the Central Bank of Nicaragua, which has sole au- thority to buy and sell foreign exchange but has authorized commercial banks and the exchange houses to make foreign exchange transactions. The Central Bank approves all foreign exchange transac- tions on the basis of priority criteria that are estab- lished in accordance with sources of foreign ex- change. The Central Bank is also responsible for issuing export authorizations. Some transactions not eligible for official foreign exchange can be effected through an authorized foreign currency deposit account or with currencies acquired from exchange houses. Importers using their own foreign currency ac- counts are not required to go through the exchange approval process, nor are they expected to show proof of sources of funds. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. irThe cordoba replaced the cordoba oro at the end of April 1991. Prescription of Currency There is no prescription of currency, but the Cen- tral Bank has the power to prohibit an export if the currency stipulated for payment is not readily con- vertible into U.S. dollars in international markets. Payments for goods and related invisibles may be made through the Central American Clearing House; however, there are monthly limits on bank notes per exporter for compensation through the Central American Clearing House. Trade transac- tions with Honduras are settled on a three-month basis in U.S. dollars through a reciprocal credit ar- rangement; if the outstanding balance exceeds $5 million, immediate settlement is required. Trade transactions with Guatemala are carried out in U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments All importers effecting payments through the of- ficial market are required to be registered with the Ministry of Economic Affa irs and Development. This requirement is waived for individuals who im- port only occasionally for their own needs. Importer registration certificates are valid for five years. For individual imports, other than those financed from their own foreign currency deposit accounts or with foreign exchange from the exchange house market, a specific license is required from the Minis- try of Economic Affa irs and Development. In princi- ple, general import licenses are valid for five years. Registration is also required at the Central Bank. Payments for imports from the Central American region must be effected by bank check or certified check in cordobas, authorized for conversion through the Central American Clearing House. Pay- ments for imports from outside the Central Ameri- can region must be settled through the banking system.2 Some import payments are made with sight drafts, but almost all are made through letters of credit. Foreign exchange is freely available to effect import payments up to $5,000; for amounts exceeding this limit, the use of certain credits or lines of credit may be required. 2However, by virtue of Decree No. 1-L (effective March 1, 1963), the exchange proceeds from bananas, coconuts, copra, and coconut by-products exported through the ports of the re- gion of El Cabo and the Department of Zelaya may be used by the exporters to pay for imports consumed in these areas. 352 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA 353 In addition to custom duties, certain imports are also subject to a selective consumption tax, irrespec- tive of origin, and to a customs fee. In addition, most commodities, whether imported or domes- tically produced, are subject to a 15 percent general sales tax. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized im- ports are not restricted. Payments for other invis- ibles, such as travel, educational expenses, family maintenance, and medical expenses may be effected through authorized exchange licenses; they are not normally subject to a limit. Resident travelers are not allowed to take out more than the equivalent of $1,000 in fore ign bank notes w i thout a receipt f rom a foreign exchange house, and a special permit f rom the Central Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds The monopoly of public enterprises over the ex- portation of coffee, cotton, meat, sugar, and seafood has been removed, and all exports except gold are now liberalized, requiring only registration with the Central Bank and the Ministry of Economic Affa irs and Development. Exports of gold remain under the control of the central bank. Export registration certificates are valid for five years. Foreign exchange proceeds from traditional ex- ports must be surrendered to an authorized bank within 45 days of shipment. Failure to surrender foreign exchange from export proceeds will result in loss of export authorization. Proceeds from non- traditional exports may be retained by exporters. Proceeds from exports of bananas, coconuts, copra, and coconut by-products through the ports of the region of El Cabo and the Department of Zelaya may be used by the exporters to pay for imports con- sumed in these areas. A few agricultural export products are subject to ad valorem taxes, which are applied progressively with the international prices for those exports. Exporters of nontraditional products may deposit their proceeds in a special account without convert- ing them into national currency. They may not ac- quire foreign exchange from the commercial bank- ing system or exchange houses to pay for imports, and they must use their own foreign exchange. Proceeds from Invisibles Nonresidents must pay for hotel rooms and inter- national telephone calls in U.S. dollars. Capital All capital transactions require authorization from the Central Bank. Depending on the availability of foreign exchange, central bank authorization is given for servicing private external debt. Gold The Nicaraguan Mining Institute manages the country's gold production. The Central Bank is in charge of selling gold at prices prevailing in interna- tional gold markets. The Central Bank can sell gold to domestic, industrial, and other users. Commem- orative gold coins were issued in 1967, 1975, and 1980. Natural and juridical persons may trade gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement April 30. The cordoba replaced the cordoba oro. September 15. Four private foreign exchange houses were established, with authorization to buy and sell foreign exchange at market-determined rates. Administration of Control February 11. External transactions were deregu- lated, and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development would permit all imports and exports of goods and services. Imports and Import Payments July 1. The max imum ra te for the selective con- sumption tax on most merchandise imports was set at 15 percent, and a timetable was established for the reduction of the tax to zero by the end of 1993. July 1-August 16. The import ta r i ff schedule was reduced in accordance with the CACM agree- ment, with the maximum rate for eligible imports set at 20 percent, and the minimum rate at 1 per- cent. Exports and Export Proceeds February 11. Coffee, cotton, sugar, some sesame, beef, and molasses were exempted from the export tax. September 2. All export transactions were required to be handled through the commercial banking sys- tem. The maximum period for surrendering pro- ceeds from exports to commercial banks was re- duced to 45 days from 60 days of shipment. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Niger is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French f ranc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF1 per F 0.02. The official buying and selling rates are CFAF 50 per F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are de- rived f rom the ra te for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed ra te be- tween the French f ranc and the CFA f r an c. The BCEAO no longer levies a commission on trans- fe rs to or f rom countries outside the West Afr ican Monetary Union (WAMU). Banks levy a fixed commission of CFAF 100 plus a proportional levy of 0.15 percent for t rans fe rs inside the WAMU. For t rans fe rs outside the Operations Account Area, there is a f u r t h er exchange commission at a market-determined rate. All of the revenue f rom commissions charged by the banks on t ran s fe rs outside the WAMU must be t ran s fe r red to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on pu r- chases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to gold transactions and domiciliation of exports and re- patriation of export proceeds, Niger's exchange con- trols do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Be- nin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Re- public, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote dTvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. The contracting of forward exchange cover re- quires the prior authorization of the Financial Rela- tions Directorate (of the Ministry of Economy and Finance). Such cover may be provided for payments for permitted imports and for the currency stipu- lated in the commercial contract. The maturity period must not exceed one or three months, de- pending on the nature of the goods involved, and it is not renewable. There is no official scheme for currency swaps or guaranteed exchange rates for external debt servicing. irThe CFA franc is issued by the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Financial Relations Directorate. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the banks, finan- cial institutions, the Postal Administration, and no- taries public, any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange trans- actions relating to foreign countries must be effected through the BCEAO, the Postal Admin- istration, or authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Since Niger has an Operations Account with the French Treasury, settlements with France (as de- fined above), Monaco, and the countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any Operations Account country. Current pay- ments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through correspon- dent banks in France, in foreign currencies, or in French francs, through foreign accounts in francs. Nonresident Accounts Foreign accounts in francs may be credited with BCEAO bank notes mailed to the BCEAO agency in Niamey by an authorized bank's foreign correspon- dent. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident ac- counts of BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Foreign accounts in francs may be debited, without prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO bank notes mailed by authorized intermediaries to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in South Africa are pro- hibited. Imports are free of licensing requirements. Imports of eyeglasses, masonry paint, soap, cement, and certain printed cotton fabrics are subject to pro- tective tariffs. Other products are subject to customs tariffs, ranging from 2.3 percent to 71 percent. All import monopolies and quasi-monopolies (de facto monopolies and exclusive trading contracts), 354 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER 355 with the exception of imports of petroleum prod- ucts, were abolished during the second half of 1985. In particular, since October 1, 1985, the Societe na- tionale de commerce et de production du Niger (COPRONIGER) no longer maintains a monopoly on the importation of specified commodities, including salt, cigarettes, green tea, and certain textiles. All import transactions with foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when valued at more than CFAF 25,000 c . i .f. at the border. Foreign exchange may not be purchased before the payment due date if the goods have already been imported, or until eight days before the shipment date if the goods are covered by documentary credit. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the External Relations Directorate, which, for certain transactions, has delegated its powers to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Residents traveling as tourists to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to CFAF 100,000 a person a trip (CFAF 50,000 for chil- dren under 10 years), which they may take up to twice a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining after return to Niger must be surrendered within eight days to an authorized bank. Foreigners working in Niger may transfer savings from their salaries with the prior approval of the External Relations Directorate; they are nor- mally limited to 50 percent of net pay. Larger trans- fers are permitted, however, against presentation of supporting documents. Residents traveling to foreign countries may take out, in addition to their travel allocation, up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes of other coun- tries linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account. Residents traveling to other Opera- tions Account countries may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes but, when traveling to an Oper- ations Account country outside the WAMU, must declare these if they exceed CFAF 150,000. Nonresi- dent travelers may freely take out up to CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes of other countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account, and foreign notes up to the amount they declared upon entry,2 or, if they made no declaration, up to CFAF 25,000; they may also take out freely any amount of foreign currency traveler's checks, etc., issued abroad in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Ex- ports of rice and paddy to all countries require the prior authorization of the Ministry of Economic Pro- motion. Exports of millet and sorghum are pro- hibited unless covered by a shipping document in the name of the Office des produits vivriers du Niger (OPVN). On July 10, 1990, the export- licensing requirement for peanuts, peanut oil, pea- nut cakes, sisal, cotton, cottonseed, and certain other imported items was abolished. All other ex- ports to France (as defined above) and the Opera- tions Account countries may be made freely. Ex- ports of domestic products and imported commod- ities to other countries require an exchange commit- ment. In principle, the due date of payment for exports to foreign countries must not be later than 180 days after the goods arrive at their destination. Proceeds from exports, regardless of the buying country, must be collected and surrendered through an authorized intermediary bank within one month of the due date. All exports, regardless of destination, must be domiciled with an autho- rized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surren- dered within two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may import any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign 2This amount is reduced, when appropriate, by the amount sold for CFA francs and increased by the amount of foreign notes acquired in Niger by debit to a foreign account in francs or a foreign currency account, by exchange for other foreign means of payment brought in, or by repurchase with CFA francs (such repurchase being limited to the equivalent of CFAF 25,000). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 356 NIGER bank notes and coins (except gold coins). Residents must surrender within eight days of entry any for- eign currency in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 5,000. Capital Capital transactions between Niger and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account are free of exchange control; capital trans- fers to all other countries require approval from the exchange control authority and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may apply) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward and outward investment, and over the issuance, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Niger. Such operations require prior authorization from the Min- ister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, how- ever, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Nigerien Govern- ment, and (2) shares that are identical with, or may be substituted for, securities whose issuance or sale in Niger has previously been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the WAMU, and other countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Special con- trols are maintained also over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate development operations abroad; these special con- trols also apply to France (as defined above), Mo- naco, and countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. All the special provi- sions described in this paragraph apply only to transactions and not to the associated payments or collections. All investments abroad by residents of Niger re- quire prior authorization from the Minister of Fi- nance;3 75 percent of the value must be financed from borrowing abroad. Foreign direct investments in Niger4 must be declared to the Minister of Fi- nance before they are made. The Minister has a Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Niger and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Niger. including those made by companies in Niger that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Niger. period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request postponement of the project. The full or partial liquidation of either type of investment also requires prior declaration to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Nigerien invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in Niger, must be reported to the Minister of Finance and the BCEAO within 20 days of each operation. Direct investments constitute investments implying con- trol of a company or an enterprise. Mere participa- tion is not considered as direct investment, pro- vided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Lending abroad is subject to prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. Borrowing by residents f rom nonresidents re- quires prior authorization f rom the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt f rom this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are sub ject to prior declara- tion, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount out- standing of these loans, including the new bor- rowing, does not exceed CFAF 2 million for any one borrower, provided that the annual interest ra te does not exceed the normal market rate and that the proceeds of the loan are immediately sold on the exchange market or debited to a foreign account in f ranc s. The repayment of a foreign loan constituting a direct investment is subject to the same formalities as the liquidation of a direct in- vestment; the repayment of other loans requires authorization only if the loan itself was subject to prior authorization. Foreign investments in Niger may be granted cer- tain guarantees and facilities under the Investment Code of July 31, 1988 and its amendments. The facilities granted under the previous Investment Code have been maintained. The new Investment Code provides for privileged or regular treatment. The latter provides assurances, for both new and existing enterprises, with respect to indemnities in the event of expropriation and concerning non- discrimination between Nigerien nationals and for- eign nationals; tax exemptions may be granted for new investments. Privileged treatment is reserved for enterprises deemed to be of special importance to national economic development and falling within specified categories of industrial activities. Such treatment may be accorded under two dif- ferent regimes —the approval regime and the agree- ment regime. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER 357 r / Gold filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) articles of gold r, .j ^ £ . 1 11 . 1 1. c up to a combined weight of 5 00 grams when carried Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of ,r , i ™ ,1 T i ? ,• r , ,. , - X T- T i. j . <• by a traveler. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold in any form in Niger. Imports and exports of 1, i . , , , j i , • ,, r i. ° A .r. eold a re subiect to customs declaration. gold from or to any other country require prior ° authorization from the Minister of Finance. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports u u u ir r i.u T i.u o r - i -A^ by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold- ^, ^ . ^nM Changes During 1991 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ; & & ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Nigeria is the Nigerian Naira. The exchange system consists of the official foreign exchange market (FEM) and the foreign exchange bureau (FEB). The FEM consists of a weekly auction of foreign exchange to authorized foreign exchange dealers by the Central Bank of Nigeria, interbank foreign exchange dealings among authorized dealers, and dealings between banks and their customers. The Central Bank, after deducting the amounts required to make official external pay- ments and allowing for a targeted increase in re- serves, allocates official foreign exchange receipts to the authorized dealers, who act as brokers for their clients through an auction system (Dutch). Success- ful bidders in the auction receive a maximum share of the total allocation of foreign exchange that is based on their relative size (measured in terms of capital). Authorized dealers must sell foreign ex- change obtained through the market (or directly from customers) at a margin of not more than 1 per- cent between the buying and selling rates. The exchange rate for foreign exchange bought outside the auction (for example, nontraditional ex- ports and remittances) is freely determined in FEBs, which have been in operation since August 1989. These FEBs can freely buy foreign currency notes from and sell them to their clients and, to a lesser extent, only buy traveler's checks from their clients. The exchange rate in this market differs from the rate in the FEM. On December 31,1991, the average central rate in the auction was N 9.87 per US$1, and the average rate in the FEBs was about N 15.7 per US$1. Forward exchange transactions at market- determined rates are permitted between foreign ex- change dealers and their customers. These transac- tions must be the counterpart of an underlying import or export transaction. Foreign exchange licenses (form "M") are granted automatically upon request. Ap- proved forms "M" and their relative letters of credit are valid for six months in the first instance. Autho- rized foreign exchange dealers are allowed to extend the validity of approved forms and their relative let- ters of credit for a maximum period of an additional six months without referring to the Central Bank. Any request for further extension must be referred to the Central Bank for approval. The Central Bank of Nigeria, however, does not engage in forward ex- change transactions. Administration of Control The Federal Ministry of Finance is responsible for basic exchange control policy and, in principle, for approving applications for transfers of capital abroad; for remittances of profits and dividends; for granting "approved status" to nonresident invest- ments in Nigeria; and for approving any dealings in foreign securities. The Central Bank is the principal administrator of foreign exchange regulations. All licensed commercial banks and merchant banks have been appointed as authorized dealers by the Ministry of Finance and are empowered to deal in foreign currencies and to approve applications in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Cen- tral Bank. Any application that does not fall within the scope of the authority of these authorized dealers must be submitted to the Ministry of Fi- nance for the transactions mentioned above. Hotels and rest houses are allowed to receive payments of hotel bills and incidental expenses in foreign cur- rency from travelers to Nigeria. Private sector foreign exchange receipts must be repatriated to Nigeria and retained in domiciliary accounts with authorized dealers or sold in the FEM; they are not required to be surrendered to the Central Bank. The Federal Ministry of Trade administers trade regulations. Arrears are maintained with respect to some ex- ternal payments falling due on transactions entered into before the introduction of the two-tier foreign exchange market, which was abolished on July 2, 1987. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments may be made in naira to an external account in Nigeria or in any foreign cur- rency. The proceeds of exports to foreign countries may be received in export proceeds domiciliary ac- counts, in any foreign currency that is freely ex- changeable for naira, or in any specified currency. Settlements with the central banks of the member states of the Economic Community of West African States (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Sierra Leone, and Togo) are normally made through the West African Clearing House in West African Units of Account (WAUAs). 358 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA 359 Resident and Nonresident Accounts There are four categories of resident and nonresi- dent accounts: external accounts, nonresident ac- counts, domiciliary accounts, and blocked ac- counts. External accounts are maintained for diplomatic representatives of all countries and in- ternational organizations. They may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Nigeria to residents of foreign countries, with payments from other external accounts, and with proceeds from sales of foreign currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of Nigeria, with payments to other external accounts, and for purchases of for- eign currencies. Funds derived from local sources may be deposited in nonresident accounts. Such accounts may be credited with proceeds from ser- vices rendered locally, provided that the operation of such accounts has been reported to and approval has been obtained from the Central Bank before any foreign transfers are effec ted. Domiciliary accounts may be funded by residents with foreign exchange derived from external sources, but not with foreign exchange purchases in the FEM. Blocked accounts are accounts to which funds that are blocked by directives given under Section 27 of the Exchange Control Act are credited. Imports and Import Payments Import licensing was abolished with the introduc- tion of the FEM on September 29, 1986. However, the importation of 15 items is prohibited. These are cigarettes, meat, poultry (except day-old chicks), vegetables, fresh fruit, eggs, textile fabrics, furni- ture, beer, some chemicals, rice and rice products, maize and maize products, wheat and wheat prod- ucts, mineral water, and all sparkling wine. All imports valued at $1,000 (c. & f.) or more, except those specifically exempted by the Govern- ment, are subject to preshipment inspection to en- sure that all imports into Nigeria are of the correct quality and quantity according to the contracts and that only the normal price of that product in the country of supply is paid as well as the correct import duty.1 Unless a "Clean Report of Findings" on the goods to be imported has been issued, for- eign exchange settlement for imports may not be effected. irThe following items are exempt from the inspection require- ment: gold; precious stones; works of art; explosives and pyrotechnic products; ammunition; implements of war; live ani- mals; fresh, chilled, frozen, or canned fruits and vegetables; scrap metals; household and personal effects, including used motor vehicles; parcel post or samples; and petroleum and re- fined petroleum products. Payment for imports covered by confirmed let- ters of credit is made by the overseas correspon- dents on behalf of Nigerian banks, on presen ta- tion of the specified documents to the overseas correspondents. However, such payment is made on the unde rs tand ing that the goods paid for will arrive in Nigeria and that all shipping documents relating to the imported goods are lodged by im- porters with the authorized dealer as agents of the Nigerian Government within 21 days of negotia- tion of the specified documents. Bills of entry (for imports covered by confirmed letters of credit) must be submitted to the authorized dealer within 90 days of negotiation and payment by overseas correspondent banks. For all other means of pay- ment, the fu ll set of documents, evidencing the receipt of the goods in Nigeria, must be submitted to the authorized dealer. Delivery of fore ign ex- change for a valid purchase (spot) order must take place within 3 working days of the date of the purchase contract. Payments for Invisibles Nigeria does not maintain restrictions on most payments for invisibles. Basic allowances are pro- vided for some payments. As with imports, verifica- tion is on an ex post basis —that is, depending on the payments arrangements, based on documentation obtained af ter the purchase of foreign exchange. The basic allowance for tourist travel is $500 a year, and for business travel, $5,000 a trip for an enterprise. Payments for international air tickets may be made in naira by residents. Hotels are allowed to accept settlement of hotel bills and incidental ex- penses in foreign currency f rom travelers to Nigeria, who are required to settle their bills and incidental expenses in foreign currency. However, when there is documen tary evidence that an ade- quate amount of foreign currency has been ex- changed into local currency at any licensed bank or bureau de change, payment in local currency must be accepted in settlement of hotel bills by foreign visitors to Nigeria. Remittances abroad by expatriate residents of up to 75 percent of net salary a f t er tax are considered by authorized dealers sub ject to documentation requirements. Final balance applications involving the t rans fer of accumulated savings are considered subject to the approved guidelines and confirmation by the Central Bank that the expatriate concerned had not previously been granted his f inal balance en- titlement. The exportation of domestic currency in excess of N 100 is prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 360 NIGERIA Exports and Export Proceeds The exportation of African antiques, works of art, and objects used (or that have been used) in African ceremonies is prohibited, except under prescribed conditions. Exports of beans, rawhide and skins, raw palm kernel, cassava, maize, rice, yam tubers, products derived from these seven product items, and exports of all imported food items are pro- hibited. Exports of unrefined gold and petroleum products require an export license. Exports of petro- leum are handled by the Nigerian National Petro- leum Corporation and are subject to special arrangements. Foreign exchange receipts from private sector ex- ports may be sold freely to the receiving bank or retained in domiciliary accounts; all previous re- quirements for surrender to the Central Bank were abolished, with effect from September 29, 1986. Proceeds from Invisibles For statistical purposes only, foreign currency im- ports of the equivalent of $1,000 and more must be declared. The importation of domestic currency in excess of N 100, which is intended to assist resi- dents to settle expenses immediately following their return to Nigeria, is prohibited. Capital Applications for capital transfers abroad are ap- proved by the Federal Ministry of Finance and Eco- nomic Development subject to satisfactory docu- mentation, and transfers are effected through the FEM. Except for the purpose of financing imports or exports, permission is required from the Ministry of Finance for any individual, firm, company, or branch resident in Nigeria to borrow abroad. In addition, official agencies and state-controlled cor- porations require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance for any foreign borrowing. The contract- ing of suppliers' credits abroad by state-controlled corporations or agencies is also subject to approval from the Ministry of Finance. The permission of the Ministry of Finance is required for borrowing in Nigeria (1) by any nonresident individual or com- pany, and (2) by any company registered in Nigeria (other than a bank) that is controlled directly or indirectly from outside Nigeria. However, to enable entities mentioned under (2) to meet temporary shortages of funds, licensed banks in Nigeria may grant loans or overdrafts for periods not exceeding 14 days, or may increase the amount of any advance or overdraft by the amount of loan interest or bank charges payable thereon. General permission is also given for any loan, bank overdraft, or other credit facility to be arranged to finance Nigerian imports or exports of goods. Residents of Nigeria may not deal in foreign cur- rency securities or buy from or sell to nonresidents of Nigeria any security payable in naira without the permission of the Ministry of Finance. The capital proceeds of securities registered in Nigeria and owned by nonresidents may be collected and nego- tiated through authorized dealers, provided that the prior permission of the Ministry of Finance is obtained. Exchange for the transfer of certain assets by emi- grants or expatriates is granted on final departure from the country, but the transfer of the proceeds of assets realized in order to comply with the Nigerian Enterprises Promotion Decrees of 1972 and 1977 may take place upon receipt. Ceilings for foreign capital participation in the equity capital of enterprises in various sectors of the economy have been set by the Indigenization De- cree of 1972, as amended in February 1974, July 1976, January 1977, and January 1989. Nonresi- dents intending to make direct investments in Nigeria may apply to the Ministry of Finance for approved status, the granting of which means that sympathetic consideration will be given to fu tu re requests to repatriate the capital and related profits and dividends. Remittable dividends may be rein- vested without the requirement that matching capi- tal must be imported. However, the granting of ap- proved status for such investment is subject to the approval of the Federal Ministry of Finance. The granting of approved status is not applicable to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange in Nigeria unless this forms an integral part of the approved investment project. Furthermore, this status is not normally granted when internally generated funds from profits, dividends, rents, bank credit, or lo- cally raised loans are invested in local enterprises. Foreign-owned companies and banks operating in Nigeria must be incorporated in Nigeria. To facilitate the inflow of direct capital invest- ment, the Industrial Development and Coordinat- ing Committee (IDCC) deals with all matters relat- ing to approval for direct capital investment, subject to the provisions of the Nigerian Enterprises Promo- tion Decree, 1977. Applications for the remittance of profits, dividends, etc., in respect of capital invest- ment made through authorized foreign exchange dealers are considered by the Federal Ministry of Finance and approved subject to documentation re- quirements. Funds so approved are repatriated through the FEM. In July 1988, the Central Bank of Nigeria pub- lished guidelines for an external debt-conversion ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA 361 program for Nigeria and established a Debt Conver- sion Program (DCP) to be supervised by a Debt Conversion Committee (DCC) appointed by the Federal Government. The DCC and DCP regulate the purchase of selected Nigerian foreign debt in- struments at a discount and the disposition of the naira proceeds of conversions of such debt. Eligible instruments were initially defined as uninsured trade debt denominated in promissory notes. When the rescheduling agreement with commer- cial banks was completed in early 1989, additional instruments representing debt to commercial banks were made eligible for the debt-conversion provi- sions. All legitimate holders of promissory notes/ debt instruments are eligible to apply to the DCC for debt conversion provided that the foreign ex- change used to acquire the instruments originated from abroad and not from foreign exchange pur- chases in Nigeria. Eligible uses for the naira proceeds from debt conversion are (1) conversion to cash for the purpose of making a gift/grant to Nigerian entities; (2) con- version for expansion or recapitalization of invest- ments in privatized enterprises; and (3) conversion for investment in completely new projects. The DCC evaluates each application and determines eli- gibility for participation in an auction to be con- ducted by the Central Bank. The amounts and tim- ing of the auction are determined by the DCC. Restrictions on remittances of redemption pro- ceeds and incomes arising therefrom are the follow- ing: (1) interest income, profits/dividends, patent license fees, and other invisibles connected with approved projects under the DCP may not be re- patriated for a minimum period of five years from the date of release of redemption proceeds for actual investment or five years after such profits/dividends are made or paid, whichever is later; and (2) any capital proceeds arising from subsequent disposal of the investment made under the program may not be repatriated for a minimum period of ten years af ter effective investment of the proceeds; repatria- tion of capital after ten years may not exceed 20 per- cent a year. Gold With the permission of the Federal Ministry of Finance, residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Nigeria for numismatic purposes. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not al- lowed, without special permission, to hold or ac- quire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require specific licenses issued by the Federal Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary au- thorities, producers of gold, and industrial users. Furthermore, the importation of gold coins requires an import license. Imports of gold coins and gold and silver bullion are free of duty when made by the Central Bank; otherwise, such imports are subject to customs duty at 100 percent ad valorem. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement January 1. The daily auction of foreign exchange to authorized dealers by the Central Bank was con- verted to a weekly auction. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Norway is the Norwegian Krone, the external value of which is pegged to the Euro- pean Currency Unit (ECU) at NKr 7.9940 per ECU 1. The exchange rate is managed so as to allow only limited fluctuations (± 2.25 percent) around its cen- tral value. The exchange rate of the krone for the U.S. dollar, the principal intervention currency, is quoted daily, together with those of 18 other curren- cies (and the ECU), on the basis of the market rates. On December 31, 1991, the middle rate quoted against the U.S. dollar was NKr 5.9730 per US$1. Residents (Norwegian companies and private in- dividuals) may freely enter into forward and inter- est rate contracts with Norwegian foreign exchange banks and nonresidents. Residents are allowed to open accounts denomi- nated in any foreign currency and Norwegian kroner with foreign banks without restriction, but they must notify the Bank of Norway. Norway formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from May 11, 1967. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Norway in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and Customs. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Foreign Af- fairs and, in certain cases, by the Ministry of Agri- culture or the Ministry of Fisheries. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries may be made in any convertible currency, including Norwegian kroner in convertible krone accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Nonresident Accounts The main type of nonresident account is the con- vertible krone account. Such accounts may be held by residents of all foreign countries. They may be credited with authorized payments from any coun- try, with transfers from other convertible krone ac- counts, and with proceeds from the sale in Norway of convertible currencies. They may be debited for authorized payments from any country to residents of Norway, for transfers to other convertible krone accounts, and for purchases in Norway of any for- eign currency. Authorized banks are permitted to open foreign exchange accounts for nonresidents without restriction, but such accounts must be re- ported to the Bank of Norway.1 Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods do not require an import li- cense, but all imports from Iraq and South Africa are prohibited. Certain textiles and garments are subject to import licensing for surveillance pur- poses. Following Norway's accession to the previous Multifiber Arrangement (MFA) on July 1, 1984, the global quotas formerly in force under Article XIX of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) have been phased out and replaced by bilateral agreements, which have been concluded with 19 textile suppliers. The agreements entered into un- der the current MFA are considerably more liberal than those that Norway had under the previous MFA. Norway has been able to maintain its policy of not introducing restraints on imports from develop- ing countries. Besides textile products, footwear from Taiwan Province of China is subject to licens- ing requirements. With these exceptions, industrial goods may be imported freely upon presentation of the original invoice. Imports of certain agricultural goods are re- stricted, irrespective of origin. A global quota list contains a few quotas for agricultural products for which imports are permitted up to fixed limits. These quotas apply to all countries, and, for some of these products, import restrictions are imposed only seasonally. New and secondhand ships and certain categories of fishing vessels may be im- ported freely. The importation of radio emittance equipment, such as radio controls, is subject to ap- proval by the Directorate of Telecommunications in respect of frequency. The importation of a small number of goods is prohibited for health and similar reasons, and certain goods (some grains, alcoholic beverages, pharmaceutical products, and drugs) are imported by government monopolies. Direct trade credits may be extended for import (and export) financing without a license from the Bank of Norway. 1 Residents may also open foreign exchange accounts at do- mestic banks without restriction. 362 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY 363 Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. There is no limit on how many (physical) means of payment a person may take out of Norway, but bank notes exceeding the equivalent of NKr 25,000 must be reported to the customs authorities. Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported freely to any country against a declaration or a license. Exports to Iraq are prohibited. Exports to South Africa are prohibited, with the exception of medicine and equipment for medical purposes, newsprint materials, and elec- tronic and audio or video recording equipment. Ex- ports subject to regulation are listed and require export licenses. Exports valued at not more than NKr 2,000 to any country are exempt from declara- tion or export license; for arms and ammunition, this limit is NKr 500, and for fish and fish products, NKr 1,000. Proceeds from Invisibles There is no limit on the amount of foreign ex- change a person may bring into Norway, but bank notes exceeding the equivalent of NKr 25,000 must be reported to the customs authorities. Capital Norwegian companies and private individuals are permitted to make direct investments abroad; direct investments in the form of share purchases must, however, be made through Norwegian stock- brokers. Securities subject to the stockbroker re- quirement and kept abroad must be deposited with a Norwegian bank or stockbroker. Foreign exchange banks, exposure-regulated financial institutions, in- surance companies, and stockbrokers dealing in foreign securities on their own account are exempt from the stockbroker and deposit requirements. However, foreign exchange banks and financial in- stitutions subject to exposure regulation must sub- mit reports on their net foreign currency position to the Bank of Norway. Net positions of up to 10 per- cent of the financial institutions' equity and subordi- nated loan capital may be taken out in individual currencies, and the aggregate position must be kept within 20 percent of the financial institutions' equity and subordinated loan capital. There is no limit on purchases by residents of foreign currency bonds, and residents are permit- ted to purchase foreign bonds and certificates. Pur- chases of life insurance policies abroad by residents are prohibited. Nonresidents may purchase Nor- wegian bonds and certificates without restriction. There is no restriction on the importation into or exportation from Norway of securities. Personal capital transfers, such as transfers relat- ing to family loans, gifts, inheritances, legacies, dowries, emigrants' assets, savings of nonresident workers, and amounts in settlement of immigrants' debts, may be made freely. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form. No customs duties or other charges or fees are payable on imports or exports of gold bullion and gold coins not contained in jewelry. Domestic sales of gold bullion and gold coins are subject to the regular value-added tax at a rate of 20 percent, except gold coins produced after Jan- uary 1, 1967. Changes During 1991 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OMAN (Position on December 32, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Oman is the Rial Omani, which is pegged to the U .S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at RO 1 = US$2.6008. The Central Bank of Oman ma in ta ins fixed buy ing and selling ra tes for the U .S. dollar; on December 31, 1991, the ra tes were RO 1 = US$2.6042 (buying) and RO 1 = US$2.5974 (selling). The commercial banks' rates for other currenc ies are based on market ra tes in London. There are arrangemen ts for forward cover against exchange ra te risk operating in the o f f ic ial and commercial bank ing sectors. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. Oman informed the Fund on June 19, 1974 that it formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Cen- tral Bank, but there is no exchange control legisla- tion in Oman. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited, as is the use of their currencies. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments All impor ts f rom Israel and South A f r ica are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are pro- hibited for reasons of health, security, or public policy. Also, seasonal bans are imposed on the importation of f r u i ts and vegetables that are grown locally. In addition, companies opera t ing in Oman and t rad ing in m anu f a c tu r ed oil prod- uc ts are prohibited f rom importing such produc ts as long as the domestic ref inery is deemed by Oman to be produc ing the specified produc ts in quan t i t ies that sa t is fy local demand. Licenses are required for imports. Foreign exchange for pay- ments abroad for authorized imports may be ob- tained freely. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited, and exports or re-exports of live animals and foods tuffs may be prohibited in times of short- age in Oman. All other commodities may be ex- ported freely. No requirements are attached to re- ceipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency in- volved. Exports of Maria Theresa dollars are prohibited. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted. Payments must not, however, be made to or received from Israel or South Africa. Travelers may bring in or take out any amount in domestic or foreign bank notes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or on payments by residents or nonresidents, except that no payments may be made to or received from Israel or South Africa. Investment in business firms in Oman by foreign natural or juridical persons requires prior approval. Such investment is regulated by a foreign invest- ment law enacted in June 1983, and by the Law for the Organization and Encouragement of Industry, which came into effect on January 15, 1979. Under the 1983 foreign investment law, joint ventures are offered a five-year tax holiday, renewable for an additional five years under certain conditions; the Oman Development Bank can provide medium- and long-term loans at preferential interest rates for project financing in the petroleum, agricultural, fishery, and mineral sectors; it can also give assis- tance in preinvestment research. Foreign capital is encouraged to be directed to large production or manufacturing projects. In addition, the Govern- ment provides loans at subsidized interest rates for projects with a majority Omani shareholding that are used for industrial production for exportation, industrial production using indigenous raw mate- rials or labor, or the development of tourism. 364 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OMAN 365 Gold The monetary authorities and authorized resi- dent and nonresident banks may, without license, purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form at home or abroad. They may also import and export gold in any form without a license and without payment of customs duties or taxes. Transactions involving Is- rael and South Africa are prohibited. Changes During 1991 Capital February 15. Private sector projects with a majority Omani shareholding and aimed at industrial pro- duction for exportation, industrial production using indigenous resources, or tourism would be pro- vided with government financial aid in the form of loans at subsidized interest rates. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Pakistan is the Pakistan Rupee, for which the U.S. dollar is the intervention currency. A managed floating exchange rate system is operated, under which the State Bank of Pakistan sets on a daily basis the rate at which it will purchase and sell U.S. dollars in its dealings with authorized dealers. On December 31, 1991, the State Bank's spot buying and selling rates for transactions with authorized dealers were PRs 24.7200 and PRs 24.8436, respec- tively, per US$1. The buying and selling rates forward up to 6 months were PRs 24.7200 and PRs 25.7706 per US$1, respectively; the buying and selling rates for- ward up to 12 months were PRs 23.9784 and PRs 26.6976 per US$1, respectively. All foreign ex- change transactions with the public must be con- ducted through authorized dealers and money changers, whose dealings must be effected at rates authorized by the State Bank. In the calculation of spot exchange rates for other currencies, a margin of 0.50 percent is provided on the previous day's closing buying and selling rates for the currency concerned in the New York market. Authorized dealers in Pakistan are permitted to cover their requirements of specified currencies in foreign exchange markets abroad. They may also cover their permitted transactions in specified cur- rencies against U.S. dollars or Pakistan rupees, ei- ther spot or forward for a limited period, with their agents in the countries concerned. In addition, they offer forward cover in the currencies of member countries for exports and imports effected under the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) arrangement, with the State Bank standing ready to cover forward con- tracts reported by authorized dealers. Forward exchange cover in respect of private for- eign currency loans and suppliers' credits, as well as foreign currency loans under the pay-as-you-earn (PAYE) scheme, is covered by the State Bank under the Government's scheme for exchange risk cover, on payment of a fee based on the difference between the interest rates in Pakistan and international mar- kets; the rate of the fee has been 6.79 percent since December 5, 1991. In addition, forward exchange cover in respect of repatriable foreign currency loans for working capital requirements is allowed by the State Bank upon payment of a fee based on the difference between the interest rate in Pakistan and the interest rate payable on the loan; the rate of the fee has been at 7.5 percent since October 29, 1990. Foreign exchange bearer certificates (FEBCs) may be purchased in foreign exchange by residents and nonresidents. Denominated in Pakistan rupees, FEBCs may be freely brought into and taken out of the country, may be encashed at any time in Pakistan rupees or in foreign exchange at the ex- change rate prevailing at the time of the encash- ment, and may be used by residents to undertake any current or international capital transactions. FEBCs are available in denominations ranging from PRs 500 to PRs 100,000. The amount payable in terms of Pakistan rupees is 14.5 percent higher than the certificate's face value one year after issuance of the certificate, 31 percent a f ter two years, and 52 percent after three years. Accrued interest is not prorated for certificates that are encashed in mid- year. At the end of December 1991, the certificates were quoted at a premium of 9.2 percent. In April 1991, dollar bearer certificates (DBCs) were introduced. DBCs are intended to supplement the existing FEBC system by allowing asset holders to hold a one-year maturity instrument that is similar to the FEBC but denominated in U.S. dollars. Like FEBCs, DBCs may be purchased by anyone (whether residing in Pakistan or abroad) with for- eign exchange. At the end of December 1991, the return on DBCs was lk of 1 percent over LIBOR. DBCs and the accrued return on them can be en- cashed either in foreign currency or in local cur- rency at the official exchange rate. Administration of Control The State Bank has delegated authority to a num- ber of banks and financial institutions to deal in all foreign currencies, to supervise surrender require- ments, and to sell foreign exchange for specified purposes within limits prescribed by the State Bank. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports is responsible for issuing licenses and permits, as well as for implementing import and export pol- icies. Certain foreign trade transactions are con- ducted through various state trading agencies, such as the Trading Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd. (TCP), the Cotton Export Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd. (CECP), and the Rice Export Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd. (RECP). Prescription of Currency Exchange receipts and payments abroad must be effected through an authorized foreign exchange 366 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 367 dealer, in principle, in any convertible currency or in Pakistan rupees to or from nonresident rupee bank accounts. Certain settlements with specified coun- tries are channeled through special accounts. Let- ters of credit for imports from all other countries must be established in foreign currency or in Pakistan rupees for credit to a nonresident bank account of the country of the beneficiary or of the country of origin or shipment of goods. During 1991, Pakistan terminated all restrictive trade agreements with IMF members and elimi- nated the restrictive features of the bilateral pay- ments agreement with Bulgaria, which is to be ter- minated in 1992, once outstanding balances have been cleared. Payments to, and receipts from, mem- ber countries of the ACU (that is, Bangladesh, In- dia, Islamic Republic of Iran, Myanmar, Nepal, and Sri Lanka) in respect of current transactions (other than those relating to petroleum, natural gas, and their products) are effected through the ACU in Asian Monetary Units (AMUs) or in the domestic currency of one of the member countries involved in such transactions. No exchange control is exercised over transactions with Afghanistan, and settle- ments are made in Pakistan rupees or in Afghan currency. Payments between Pakistan and Israel and South Africa are suspended. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident Foreign Currency Accounts. Residents of Pakistan are allowed to open and maintain foreign currency accounts (FCAs) with banks in Pakistan on the same basis as nonresidents. These accounts may be credited with remittances from abroad, traveler's checks, foreign currency notes, and proceeds from FEBCs. Sources of acquisition of foreign exchange are not required to be revealed. However, receipts from exports of goods and services, earnings from services of residents, earnings/profits of overseas offices/branches of Pakistani firms/companies, banks, and foreign exchange released from Pakistan for any specified purpose may not be credited to these accounts. Balances held in these accounts are freely transferable abroad, and there are no limits on amounts of withdrawal. These accounts can be retained on a permanent basis, and the rate of inter- est on term deposits (of three months and up to three years) is fixed by the State Bank with the approval of the Government. The rates are based on the Eurodollar deposit rate of Barclays Bank, London. The margins over the Eurodollar deposit rates for deposits range from Vz of 1 percent for three-month deposits to !5/s percent for three-year deposits. Nonresident Accounts. The accounts of individ- uals, firms, or companies residing outside Pakistan are designated nonresident accounts.1 Authorized banks are permitted to open nonresident accounts for nonbank nonresidents without the prior ap- proval of the State Bank when the accounts are to be opened with funds received from abroad through banking channels or with rupee funds that have been accepted for remittance abroad. Debits and credits to nonresident accounts for specified pur- poses may be made by authorized banks without the prior approval of the State Bank. Accounts of residents of India, other than the accounts of the Indian Embassy and its personnel, are blocked. Pakistani nationals residing abroad and foreign nationals, whether residing abroad or in Pakistan, and firms and corporations and charitable bodies owned by persons who are otherwise eligible to open FCAs may open FCAs with banks in Pakistan without the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. There are no restrictions on the curren- cies in which the accounts may be denominated; credit balances may be transferred abroad, and in- terest on such accounts is exempt from income tax. A deposit holder wishing to make payments in Pakistan must first convert the foreign exchange drawn from his account into Pakistan rupees. If a Pakistani national holding such an account returns to Pakistan, he may retain the account permanently. Banks in Pakistan receiving such deposits must sell the foreign exchange to the State Bank. Authorized dealers under the FCA facility may accept term de- posits in foreign currency from their overseas branches and foreign banks operating abroad, in- cluding financial institutions owned by them; such term deposits must be at least $10 million (or the equivalent in other currencies) for a maturity period of at least one year. Imports and Import Payments Annual Import Policy Orders (IPOs) outline the regulations that apply to imports. IPOs divide im- ports into two categories: prohibited and negative imports, and restricted imports. All items that do not appear on either the prohibited/negative lists or the restricted lists are freely importable. The pro- hibited and negative lists in principle consist of items banned for religious, health, or luxury con- sumption reasons; capital and consumer goods banned temporarily for protective reasons; inter- mediate goods used mainly in the production of different rules apply to nonresident rupee accounts of indi- viduals, firms, and companies, on the one hand, and to nonresi- dent rupee accounts of banks, on the other hand. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 368 PAKISTAN capital and consumer goods that are banned for protective reasons; and goods that are banned in accordance with international agreements.2 The res tr ic ted list of impo r ts in the 1991/92 IPO consists of three categories: (1) 7 items or catego- ries of goods importable only by the public sector; (2) 7 items or categories of goods importable only by indus tr ial consumers; and (3) 29 items or cate- gories of goods importable, sub ject to specified requirements, such as a permit by a public sector agency or fu l f i l lm ent of technical specifications. The negative list under the 1991/92 IPO included 94 items. Impor ts of some items on the negative list are permitted under certain circumstances, principally by export indus tr ies, public sector agencies, or under the personal baggage scheme. Import licenses are not required for freely import- able items. Importers of these items can approach banks directly to open letters of credit and at the same time pay the 6 percent import license fee (pre- viously collected by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports). All other imports require a license, except goods imported by the central government for defense or other purposes, goods in transit, personal baggage, certain imports over the land routes f rom Afghanistan and the Islamic Republic of Iran, and certain other items permitted under notification from the Ministry of Commerce. Li- censes are issued on the basis of notification from the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports.3 Gen- erally, licenses remain valid for 12 months, but when machinery is specifically manufac tured, li- censes can be obtained with a validity period of up to 24 months. Licenses for imports are subject to a fee of 6 percent of the value of the license, payable at the time of issue. The import regime is subject to certain other sup- plementary qualifications, the most important of which are as follows: (1) Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited, as are imports of goods originating in these countries but shipped from third countries. The private sector can import 570 specified items or categories of goods directly f rom India. (2) Special provisions exist for the importation by export industries of items on the restricted (tied) list from untied sources and items on the negative list. (3) Private sector importers, other than those importing goods for personal use, who apply for import licenses for goods valued at PRs 45,000 or more, must be members of approved trade organi- zations. (4) The maximum c. & f. values for which licenses for the importation of machinery and mill- work can be issued against various sources of fi- nancing to different categories are (a) up to PRs 25 million for commercial importers; (b) up to PRs 125 million for new units or expansion of existing units that are likely to cost less than PRs 1,000 million and that do not fall within the specified list of industries (that is, they are permitted to be set up without the sanction of any government agency).4 In the case of units falling within a specified list of industries, the limit of PRs 125 million applies, subject to the condi- tion that such units are duly sanctioned by the com- petent authority; (c) up to PRs 25 million for balanc- ing, modernization, and replacement of existing units, excluding the textile industry; and (d) from PRs 12.5 million to PRs 50 million for balancing, modernization, and replacement of a textile unit, depending on the type and capacity of the machin- ery. Procurement of plant and equipment of higher value not falling under a specified list of industries and having less than 50 percent foreign equity may be made by financing institutions, with the ap- proval of the Ministry of Industry. Imports are permitted against either letters of credit or contracts. (1) In the case of licenses issued against cash, letters of credit must be established or an import contract on a consignment basis must be registered with a bank within 180 days of license registration with the State Bank, failing which the license will be deemed to have expired. (The time limit of 180 days may be curtailed in the case of import licenses for items notified by the Chief Con- troller of Imports and Exports.) (2) In the case of licenses issued against loans or credits, letters of credit must be established within 180 days of the date of issue of the license except as provided for in Clause VI of Paragraph 2.7 of the IPO. For imports under barter, the letters of credit must be opened within such period as may be specified in the rele- vant public notice issued by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. (3) In the case of imports under tied loans or credits, which require the con- tracts to be approved by the Government of Pakistan, the importer must submit the contract within 120 days of the date of issue of the license and must open a letter of credit within 60 days of the date of final approval of the contract, failing which the license will be deemed to have expired. Oil and natural gas exploration and producing companies 2Some of the currently prohibited imports fall outside of these categories ( that is, some prohibited items are not produced in Pakistan and they do not fit into the category of goods banned for religious, health, or luxury consumption reasons). 3Licensing restrictions apply only to arms and ammunition. industries on the specified list include arms and ammunition; security printing, currency, and mint; high explosives; radioac- tive substances; alcohol and beverage industries based on im- ported concentrates; manufactures of automobiles; tractors and fa rm machinery; and petroleum-blending plants. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 369 and refineries are free to open letters of credit for the importation of crude oil and petroleum products within the validity period of the underlying license. Remittances are not normally permitted before shipping documents are received, but in special cases —for example, machinery and other capital goods for which deposits have to be paid to foreign manufacturers —the State Bank may authorize ad- vance payments for a part of the value of the goods. Authorized dealers may also make advance remit- tances, without the prior approval of the State Bank, for imports of books, magazines, and journals by commercial importers. No payments are permitted for goods originating in or consigned from Israel or South Africa. Import surcharges at the rate of 10 percent ad valorem and Iqra surcharges at the rate of 5 percent ad valorem are levied on the c . i . f. value of imports.5 A number of items, including medicine, books, fer- tilizer, duty-free baggage, kerosene, light diesel, and fuel oil, are exempt from the surcharges. The elements of surcharges paid on imported raw mate- rials for manufactures of export goods are also in- cluded in the duty drawback paid on such exports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled by the State Bank and in many cases require its prior approval. No remittances are permitted to Israel or South Africa. Payments for invisibles connected with imports are generally given the same treatment as that ac- corded to the underlying trade transaction. Except with respect to certain aid shipments, transport insurance must be taken out with insurance com- panies in Pakistan. Commissions, brokerage, or other charges paid to foreign importers or agents by Pakistani exporters are generally limited to a max- imum of 5 percent of the invoice value, except for cotton, for which the maximum is 1 percent. The maximum percentage for sporting goods, surgical instruments, cutlery, leather goods, ready-made garments and other textile made-ups, carpets, and plastic manufactures is 7 percent; for engineering goods, it is 10 percent; and for books, journals, and magazines, it is 33Vs percent. The remittance of dividends declared on current profits is allowed freely to foreign shareholders where the investment was made with the Govern- ment's approval. With the approval of the State Bank, profits of branches of foreign companies and banks may be remitted to their head offices. The same applies to head office expenses charged to a 5Import surcharges were abolished under the 1992/93 budget. branch's profit and loss account and accepted for tax purposes by the Pakistani income tax authorities. The remittance of profits by branches of foreign companies other than banks and those engaged in insurance, shipping, and airline business does not require the approval of the State Bank. Authorized dealers may sell foreign exchange up to $1,000 a person every two years for private travel to countries other than Afghanistan, Bangladesh, and India irrespective of the number of days spent abroad;6 this allocation can be used in installments. In addition to this quota, each traveler is allowed $50 a trip. Remittances for undergraduate studies abroad and correspondence courses are unre- stricted. Foreign exchange for business travel, med- ical treatment, education, and sponsored cultural trips may be granted on a case-by-case basis. For- eign exchange allowances for tuition and expenses required by institutions may be obtained from au- thorized dealers without approval from the State Bank. Allowances for professional training abroad range from $750 a month for junior executives to $1,200 a month for senior executives. There are also specific allowances for pilgrims' travel to Saudi Ara- bia. Exporters of goods with annual export earnings of more than PRs 2.5 million and exporters of ser- vices with annual earnings of more than PRs 0.25 million are granted a renewable business travel an- nual allowance of $200 a day up to $6,000 for each business trip. In addition, business travelers can settle credit card charges up to $100 a day, subject to a maximum of $3,000 for a 30-day visit, with the encashment of FEBCs. Foreigners may make family remittances of up to 50 percent of net income or $750 a month, whichever is larger; Pakistani nationals are not allowed to make remittances abroad for family maintenance purposes. Persons leaving Pakistan (foreigners and Paki- stani nationals) may take out with them foreign currency without limit. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of specified commodities to any destina- tion and all exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited.7 Exports of most other commodities are 6The allowances for travel to Bangladesh and India are less; there is no such allowance for travel to Afghan is tan. 7Prohibited exports include ferrous and nonferrous metals (excluding iron and steel manu fac tu red goods), edible oils, grains, gur, sari and jaggary powder, dairy products, certain live animals, animal fats, beef, mutton, timber, certain hides and skins, pulses and beans, wet-blue leather made from cowhides and calfhides, wheat straw, charcoal, pepper, certain animal products, intoxicants, certain seeds, wooden crates, arms, am- munition, explosives, fissionable material, maps and charts, pa- per waste, unfinished hockey sticks and blades, human skel- etons, all imported goods, and antiquities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 370 PAKISTAN allowed freely. However, certain specified exports are subject to export quotas (for example, maize, gram, camels, and split gram), quality controls (such as batteries, electric bulbs and appliances, and oil cakes), or minimum export prices (for exam- ple, raw cotton, surgical instruments, and onyx blocks). The CECP is responsible for the exportation of cotton, although the private sector has also been allowed into the export trade. Cotton is also ex- ported to India without involvement of any public sector agency; Basmati and other rice are exported through the RECP, but private traders are also al- lowed. Exports of cement, which may be effected by public and private sector entities, are subject to a quota. Chemical fertilizers may also be exported by private sector units. Trade samples that can be ex- ported without prior approval f rom the State Bank are limited to the equivalent of $1,000; the limit for leather garments is 50 pieces. The State Bank re- quires a declaration by the exporter that payment will be received in accordance with the prescribed method and within the prescribed time except for goods manufac tured in the export processing zones. The authorized dealer certifies the export form for shipment. Exporters are obliged to collect and surrender export proceeds within four months of shipment, although the State Bank may allow an extension of this period. Exporters may, however, with the prior approval of the State Bank, grant deferred payment terms. The surrender of Afghan currency accruing from exports to Afghanistan is not required. Export financing at concessional rates is provided for all exports, with the exception of 24 specified items8 based on irrevocable letters of credit or firm export orders on a case-by-case basis under Part I of the Export Finance Scheme,9 or, alternatively, based on the exporter's performance in the previous year on a revolving basis under Part II of the scheme. Rebates of 25 percent and 50 percent are available against the tax payable on income attributable to the sales proceeds from exports of semifinished goods and finished goods, respectively, that are manufac- tured in Pakistan. For value-added items, such as 8The exceptions are raw cotton; cotton yarn; fish other than frozen and preserved; mutton and beef; petroleum products; crude vegetable material; wool and animal hair; crude animal material; feeds tuff for animals; all grains including grain flour; stone, sand, and gravel; waste and scrap of all kinds; crude fertilizer; oilseeds, nuts, and kernels; jewelry exported under the Entrustment Scheme; live animals; hides and skins; wet-blue leather; inorganic elements, oxides, etc.; crude minerals; works of art and antiques; all metals; fur skins; and wood in rough or squared fo rm. 9Under specified conditions, authorized dealers may grant concessional finance without state bank approval and without an irrevocable letter of credit or firm export order. engineering products, garments, leather and leather products, textile products, hand-knotted carpets, and rugs, the rate of rebate is 75 percent. Industrial units established under the PAYE scheme are permitted to utilize a maximum of 50 percent of the f .o .b. value of exports for payments of foreign exchange obligations in respect of royalties, techni- cal fees, and incidental charges. Under the Open Bond Manufacturing Scheme, raw materials and intermediate goods imported or purchased locally and used for manufacturing for exports are ex- empted from payments of import duties and local taxes. At present, the following industries are cov- ered by this scheme: textiles and clothing (other than spinning); leather and leather manufactures; chemicals and pharmaceuticals; engineering and electronics; ceramics; furniture; sporting goods; and surgical instruments. Export duties are levied on staple cotton, cotton yarn, oil cakes, molasses, semitanned hides and skins, and onyx blocks. The exportation of cows and calves is banned. Exporters who are members of export houses may retain up to 5 percent of their foreign exchange earnings for export promotion and related costs. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of Afghan currency, which may be retained, incoming foreign exchange de- rived from invisibles must be surrendered within three months. Travelers may bring in PRs 100 in Pakistani currency notes a person and PRs 5 in coins. There is no limitation on the importation of other currency notes and coins, except coins that are legal tender in India; these coins may be im- ported only up to the value of Rs (Indian) 5 a person at a time. Travel agents and tour agents are permitted to retain up to 5 percent of their foreign exchange earnings for marketing and related export promo- tion expenses. Capital Investments in the industrial sector may be un- dertaken by nonresident Pakistani and foreign na- tionals without government approval, except in the following areas for which prior government ap- proval is required by all investors irrespective of nationality or resident status: (1) arms and ammuni- tion; (2) printing of securities and currency, and mint; (3) high explosives; and (4) radioactive sub- stances. Expenditures in local currency need not be made from local equity capital. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 371 The following regulations apply to the repatria- tion of capital: (1) foreign capital invested in ap- proved industries established after September 1, 1954 may be repatriated at any time to the extent of the original investment, and current profits may be transferred without restriction to the country of origin of the capital; (2) profits reinvested in ap- proved industrial projects with the sanction of the Government may be treated as investment for the purpose of subsequent repatriation; (3) appreciation of any capital investment under (1) and (2) may also be treated as investment for the purpose of subse- quent repatriation. These repatriation facilities do not apply to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange, unless the purchase is an integral part of an approved investment project, or to capital in- vested in Pakistan before September 1, 1954. Guar- antees provide for just and fair compensation in the currency of the country of origin of the investment in the event of nationalization of any project. Foreign nationals in Pakistan or abroad may regis- ter their investments in National Prize Bonds issued by the Government of Pakistan; the principal in such transactions can be repatriated at any time, but the prize funds are treated as savings for the pur- pose of exchange control regulations on outward transfers. Transfers of capital abroad by resident nationals are, in general, not permitted; the purchase of for- eign securities by Pakistani residents must be ap- proved by the State Bank. Detailed rules govern the transfer of capital by persons emigrating or retiring from Pakistan, depending upon the nationality of the person concerned and the country to which the transfer is to be made. Foreign nationals tem- porarily residing in Pakistan are treated as nonresi- dents for purposes of transfers of securities. Gen- eral permission has been given in connection with the issuance, sale, or transfer of Pakistani securities, in favor of nonresident Pakistanis, provided that the securities are registered at the address in Pakistan of the purchaser and investment is made on the basis of nonrepatriation of capital and return. Pakistani securities held by nonresident foreign nationals may be transferred to other nonresident foreign nationals against payments abroad, subject to the same terms and conditions as those applicable to the transferor. General permission has also been granted to foreign nationals temporarily resident in Pakistan to make investments in units of the Na- tional Investment Trust, subject to certain stipula- tions. General permission has been granted to pub- lic limited companies whose shares are quoted on stock exchanges in Pakistan to issue or transfer shares on a repatriable basis to a nonresident Pakistani national, a person with two nationalities (including Pakistani nationality), a foreign national, or a company incorporated outside Pakistan (ex- cluding branches in Pakistan of such companies and companies owned or controlled by a foreign government), provided that the issue price or pur- chase price as certified by a stock exchange broker is paid in foreign exchange either through a remit- tance of foreign currency from abroad or out of a foreign currency account maintained by the sub- scriber in Pakistan. Permission is not required for exports of share cer- tificates by companies whose shares can be issued/ transferred in favor of nonresidents covered by the general authority granted by the State Bank. Proceeds accruing from the liquidation of nonresident capital assets that are not covered by repatriation arrange- ments must be credited to nonresident accounts. Bal- ances in blocked accounts may be invested in ap- proved government securities payable in Pakistan rupees or placed as time deposits with banks. Foreign banks functioning in Pakistan may un- derwrite share issues of companies incorporated in Pakistan, provided that the total value of shares so underwr i t ten by them in each issue does not exceed 30 percent of the capital o f fe red to the general public for subscription or 30 percent of its own paid-up capital and reserve, whichever is less. The foreign banks may also underwr i te pub- lic issues of participation term certificates, term finance certificates, and "modaraba" certificates, provided that where terms and conditions of their issue grant the option to the holders to convert the securities into ordinary shares, the restriction of 30 percent of the total capital o f fe red to the gen- eral public would also apply. Pakistani nationals residing abroad may invest in new public share offers in Pakistan by remitting foreign exchange or by debiting their foreign cur- rency accounts in Pakistan; dividends thereon, as well as the proceeds upon sale, may be transferred abroad, provided that tax, if applicable, is paid. Pakistani nationals require prior approval from the State Bank to sell movable or immovable assets held abroad, and liquidation proceeds must be repatri- ated to Pakistan through normal banking channels. Gold The exportation of gold is prohibited unless autho- rized by the State Bank; such permission is normally not granted. Pakistani nationals coming from abroad are allowed to import up to 100 troy ounces of gold a person on each visit. Similarly, individual firms or companies who are residents of Pakistan are allowed to import up to 500 troy ounces at a time. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 372 PAKISTAN Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement April 22. Dollar bearer certificates (DBCs) were in- troduced. DBCs would supplement the existing for- eign exchange bearer certificates (FEBCs) scheme by allowing asset holders to hold a one-year maturity instrument that is similar to the FEBC but denomi- nated in U.S. dollars. Like FEBCs, DBCs may be pur- chased by anyone (whether resident in Pakistan or abroad), and no questions would be asked about the sources of funds. The return on DBCs is linked to the LIBOR. As of the end of 1991, the rate of return on DBCs was 0.25 percent over LIBOR on the date of purchase. DBCs and accrued returns on them may be encashed either in foreign currency or in local cur- rency at the official exchange rate. Resident and Nonresident Accounts February 13. Residents of Pakistan were allowed to open and maintain foreign currency accounts (FCAs) with banks in Pakistan on the same basis as nonresi- dents. Such accounts may be funded with remit- tances from abroad, traveler's checks, foreign cur- rency notes, and proceeds from the encashment of FEBCs/DBCs. No questions would be asked as to the sources of the foreign exchange. Receipts from ex- ports of goods and services, earnings of overseas branches of companies resident in Pakistan, and for- eign exchange released from Pakistan for any spec- ified purpose may not be credited to FCAs. Balances held in FCAs are freely transferable abroad, and there are no limits on the amount of withdrawal. These accounts may be retained on a permanent basis, and the rate of interest on term deposits (of three months and up to three years) is fixed by the State Bank with the approval of the Government. August 29. Resident firms and companies, includ- ing investment banks, were permitted to maintain FCAs. August 31. Pakistanis as well as foreign nationals residing abroad and visiting Pakistan for short peri- ods were allowed to operate their nonresident ac- counts in Pakistan freely during their stay in Pakistan. Imports and Import Payments March 1. The import-licensing requirement was abolished, except for products on the negative or restricted lists. Importers could now approach banks directly to open letters of credit without im- port license cover with payment of 6 percent import license fee (previously, the fee was collected by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports). April 3. Acetic anhydride was placed on the re- stricted list. Payments for Invisibles February 4. The maximum amount of commission that can be paid abroad in connection with rice exports was raised to 5 percent from 1 percent. February 7. Foreign exchange was made available for all correspondence courses. February 11. The requirement of prior approval from the State Bank for remitting profits by certain branches of foreign companies other than banks and those engaged in insurance, shipping, and air- line businesses was abolished. February 13. Restrictions on remittances abroad for undergraduate studies were removed. June 8. The limit on foreign exchange that resident Pakistani nationals may hold abroad was raised to $1,000 from $500 or its equivalent. Exports and Export Proceeds July 1. The following changes were introduced: (1) the limit on the value of trade samples that can be exported without prior approval was raised from PRs 5,000 (about $220) to $1,000; (2) the limit on the number of leather garment samples that can be exported without prior approval was raised to 50 pieces from 30 pieces in a calendar year; and (3) foreign companies were permitted to participate in export trade. Capital February 7. The local borrowing entitlement of manufacturing companies, including oil distribut- ing companies in Pakistan, that are exporting at least 50 percent of their production was allowed without any limit. The entitlement of local borrow- ing of the companies other than the above was also raised to 100 percent of paid-up capital, capital reve- nues, undistributed profits, and unremitted divi- dends as disclosed by their last audited annual bal- ance sheet. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Panama is the Panamanian Balboa, which is pegged to the U.S. doUar at B1 per US$1. The U.S. dollar is legal tender and circulates freely in Panama; locally issued currency is limited to small denomination coins and several commemorative coins. Commercial banks quote buying and selling rates for certain other currencies based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. On November 26,1946, Panama notified the Fund that it accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control In general, there are no import or export licenses as such. However, licenses are issued to allow for the act of buying or selling goods, and these licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Indus- try (MICI). Specific export licenses are required for products that are subject to export taxes and for certain other goods; these licenses are issued by the Ministry of Finance. The MICI, through the Panama Trade Development Institute, is responsible for de- termining all aspects of agreements on free trade and bilateral preferential treatment with countries in the region. Panama has bilateral trade agree- ments with Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua. Under an agreement with Mexico, 70 products may be exported from Panama to Mexico. The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development (MIDA) and the Agricultural Marketing Institute (IMA), through various product-specific commissions, de- termine the import quotas for certain agricultural commodities. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments There are no quantitative restrictions on indus- trial products, but import quotas, established by the MIDA and the IMA, are maintained on some f if ty- five products in the agricultural sector and agro- industries, including timber, salt, rice, onions, fish- meal, milk, and sugar. Imports by the public sector are subject to special requirements. Payments abroad may be made freely. Panama maintains a tariff schedule based on the Brussels Tariff Nomenclature (BTN). In addition to an import duty, a tax of 7.5 percent of the c. & f. value is levied on private sector imports of all dutia- ble goods other than specified pharmaceutical products and foods tu f fs, for which the rates are 2.5 percent and 3.5 percent, respectively; books and certain agricultural inputs are exempt. In addition to ad valorem ta r i f fs, a system of specific ta r i f fs is maintained, which can be applied if, in the view of the customs authorities, a problem of underinvoic- ing exists; in some cases, the specific taxes are equivalent to many times the ad valorem rate for the same product. Many local industries are protected by ta r i f fs es- tablished under a 1986 law aimed at promoting local and export industries. Exemptions from import and customs duties on equipment, machinery, and spare parts apply mainly to export-oriented indus- tries, as well as to industries concentrating on the local market, provided that certain conditions are met. In August 1991, a tariff reform was imple- mented, which is to be completed in 1993. The reform involves reductions in tariff ceilings and con- version of specific ta r i f fs to ad valorem rates. All imports into the Colon Free Zone and the newly established export processing zones are exempt from duties. Exports and Export Proceeds Export taxes are levied on gold, silver, platinum, manganese, other minerals, unrefined sugar, ba- nanas, coconuts, scrap metals, pearls, animal wax, nispero gum, ipecac root, and rubber. Exports of firearms and ammunition are prohibited. Certain nontraditional exports (with a minimum local cost of production content of 20 percent) are eligible for tax credit certificates equivalent to 20 percent of value added. Proceeds from exports are not subject to exchange control. Panama has a very large f r ee t rade zone, the Colon Free Zone, established in 1948, a bonded area where goods of any kind (including raw ma- terials and mach inery) may be impor ted, stored, 373 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 374 PANAMA modified, processed, assembled, repacked, and then re-exported w i thout being subject to customs procedures. In addition, in Novem- ber 1990, a law establishing a special regime of incentives for the creation of export processing zones in Panama was enacted. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted. A travel tax of 4 percent is levied on air and sea tickets bought in Panama or on such tickets purchased for travelers starting their trip in Panama. Capital Exchange control requirements are not imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents. A significant number of foreign-con- trolled banks are authorized to conduct business only with nonresidents. There are no restrictions on withdrawals. Gold Panama has issued two commemorative gold coins with face values of B 100 and B 500, which are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may freely hold gold in any form, at home or abroad, and may freely negotiate gold in any form with residents or nonresi- dents, at home and abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry carried as per- sonal effects by travelers are subject to license if made by residents other than the monetary authorities; im- port licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, and export licenses, by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury. Exports of unworked gold pro- duced in Panama are subject to an export duty of 1 percent ad valorem, and exports of gold coins (other than U.S. coins, which are exempt) are subject to a duty of 0.5 percent. Changes During 1991 Exports and Export Proceeds September 1. All quantitative export restrictions were eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Papua New Guinea is the Papua New Guinea Kina. The exchange rate of the kina in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, is ad jus ted daily on the basis of its relation- ship to a weighted basket of currencies represent- ing Papua New Guinea's ma jor trading par tners. On December 31, 1991, the official buying and selling ra tes quoted by the Bank of Papua New Guinea for the U.S. dollar were US$1.0523 and US$1.0559, respectively, per K 1. The commercial banks, the only authorized foreign exchange dealers, publish rates for all cu r rent transactions with their customers, within a maximum spread of 2 percent between the buying and selling rates. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Under the current forward exchange market reg- ulations, exporters and importers can hedge their exchange rate risks arising from exports or imports by selling foreign exchange forward to, or buying foreign exchange forward from, the commercial banks. Commercial banks are permitted to provide forward cover for export proceeds for up to six months at a premium of 1/2 of 1 percent a year and cover for import payments for up to nine months at a premium of 1 percent a year. The commercial banks, in turn, hedge their forward positions with firms through forward deals with the Bank of Papua New Guinea. Under this arrangement, the Bank of Papua New Guinea sets the daily forward rates both for its own transactions with the commercial banks and for banks' transactions with firms. Major min- eral exporters use other means of hedging their exchange rate risks, and the forward market is thus usually dominated by importers. The Bank of Pa- pua New Guinea, therefore, normally has a net forward liability to the commercial banks, which covers its net forward liability to firms. Under the current arrangement, the forward market is effec- tively separated from the spot market. The commer- cial banks are permitted to hedge their forward purchases and sales in the normal manner through their balance sheets. Forward rates do not therefore reflect hedging costs, that is, interest rate differen- tials between Papua New Guinea and other coun- tries. The Bank of Papua New Guinea sets the for- ward rates without regard to interest rates and assumes all the risks of the forward contracts. Papua New Guinea formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from December 4, 1975. Administration of Control Foreign exchange control is administered by the Bank of Papua New Guinea under the Central Bank- ing (Foreign Exchange and Gold) Regulations, Chapter 138. Overall policy is determined by the Government with the advice of the Bank of Papua New Guinea and the Ministry of Finance. The Bank of Papua New Guinea has delegated considerable powers to the commercial banks operating in Papua New Guinea, which have been appointed autho- rized dealers in foreign exchange and gold. Export licensing is administered by the Department of For- eign Affairs and Trade. Prescription of Currency Contractual commitments to persons residing outside Papua New Guinea that are expressed in a foreign currency must be met by payments in for- eign currency.1 Export proceeds may be received in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts The Bank of Papua New Guinea controls all credits to nonresident bank accounts; funds cred- ited to such accounts may be withdrawn without fur ther formality. Nonresidents must have approval to maintain foreign currency accounts. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a limited number of goods are re- stricted for health, security, and protective reasons. Imports of a number of items, including canned meat, sugar, pork, chicken and hens, fowls, certain fresh fruits and vegetables, and matches, are pro- hibited for protective purposes. A number of items, including laundry bar soap, plywood, and specified fruits and vegetables (for example, broccoli, cau- liflower, garlic, and celery), are subject to import quotas and are allowed to be imported through specified ports of entry; temperate fruits and onions are subject to a nationwide import quota. Other 1 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the kina. 375 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 376 PAPUA NEW GUINEA items, including poultry other than chicken, hens, or fowls, and reconstituted wood products, are sub- ject to licensing; these licenses are issued on a quar- terly basis. Quotas are adjusted quarterly, reflecting the extent to which local production can meet do- mestic demand. Quotas are typically imposed for two- or three-year periods, and quota allocations are made on a pro rata basis with purchases of domes- tically produced goods. Authorized dealers are authorized, without refer- ring to the Bank of Papua New Guinea, to approve applications for import transactions that are not sub- ject to quotas or licensing requirements. The tariff regime consists of the following: (1) main essential items, including food staples (rice, and canned fish and canned meat other than those produced do- mestically) and medical and educational supplies, are duty free; (2) 5-9 percent is levied on basic goods, including some consumer goods and raw materials; (3) 25-30 percent on intermediate goods, including goods with satisfactory domestic sub- stitutes; and (4) 50-75 percent on luxury goods, including television sets, jewelry, cosmetics, cam- eras, video recorders, and nonessential food and beverage items. Payments for Invisibles Approval is readily given for most payments for invisibles, provided that supporting documentation is produced. The remittance overseas of life insur- ance premiums covering the risk element, in the names of permanent residents, is permitted only with approval from the Commissioner of Insurance. The remittance of endowment assurance premiums is prohibited. Applications for foreign exchange for tourist travel in excess of the equivalent of K 8,000 an adult and K 3,000 a minor a year and K 4,000 for each business trip are referred to the Bank of Papua New Guinea for consideration and are approved in cases of bona fide need. Travelers may not take or send out of Papua New Guinea domestic currency in excess of K 200 in notes and K 5 in coins; however, domestic coins issued for numismatic purposes may be taken out freely. Overseas visitors are free to take out any currency that they brought in and declared on arrival. Exports and Export Proceeds Residents of Papua New Guinea may export goods without exchange control formality on condi- tion that they comply with the terms of the general authority issued by the Bank of Papua New Guinea. The essential conditions of this authority are that payments for goods exported must be received within six months of the date of export and that the proceeds must be sold to an authorized dealer in Papua New Guinea. When exporters are not in a position to comply with the conditions of the gen- eral authority, they must apply to the Bank for spe- cific authority. No authority is needed for certain categories of goods, including passengers' personal effects. Export licenses are required for specified types of goods (for example, logs, pearls, fisheries and marine products, woodchips, sandalwood, rat- tan, coffee, cocoa, and copra) under the Export (Valuation and Control) Act. Although exports of most unprocessed products are subject to export levies, these have been temporarily waived, except those on fishery and forestry products, owing to the continued weakness in primary commodity prices. A 15 percent export tax is levied on all logs, and, since February 1990, a ban has been applied on the exportation of more valuable species of timber in log form. Moreover, a two-year ban on the issuance of new permits for timber operations was introduced in July 1990 to limit timber exports. There is no export license requirement on timber. Log export licenses are issued subject to meeting minimum export price guidelines. Fish exports are subject to a tax of 10 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Approval is required for the disposal of foreign currency proceeds other than by sale to an autho- rized dealer in Papua New Guinea or for its reten- tion. (Residents are not permitted to retain foreign exchange earnings from any source without the approval of the Bank of Papua New Guinea.) Over- seas visitors may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenditure. Capital Outward transfers of overseas-owned capital (that is, proceeds from liquidation of direct invest- ments) are normally allowed. Direct investments outside Papua New Guinea by companies and other organizations operating in Papua New Guinea are subject to certain limitations. The approval of the Bank of Papua New Guinea is required for the ac- quisition and disposal of foreign securities by per- manent residents. The amount that may be invested for portfolio reasons is limited to K 15,000 a person a year. (Children under the age of 18 are not eligible to receive this allowance.) Investment may take the form only of marketable securities and not of cash deposits. Approvals carry the condition that income from the investment must be returned to Papua New Guinea as received, and details of investments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA 377 held and income received must be submitted an- nually to the Bank of Papua New Guinea. Portfolio investments by companies are not permitted. Per- sons who have been declared to be temporary resi- dents by an authorized dealer or the Bank of Papua New Guinea may repatriate their surplus earnings without limit. Prior clearance from the tax au- thorities is required for these transactions if the amount exceeds K 10,000 in any calendar year. Resi- dents may borrow, with the approval of the Bank of Papua New Guinea, on reasonable terms, and exter- nal obligations may be serviced within an annual allowance of K 15,000; that is, interest and amortiza- tion payments must not exceed K 15,000 a year. Approval by the Bank of Papua New Guinea is required for all new or increased foreign investment in Papua New Guinea. In some cases the Bank of Papua New Guinea refers such applications to the Ministry of Finance. Foreign investments other than those in banking and insurance are also sub- ject to approval by the National Investment and Development Authority. Approval from the Bank of Papua New Guinea is also necessary for the ac- knowledgment of indebtedness, partly so that the right to receive a payment may be conferred on a nonresident and partly to ensure that the terms are reasonable. In practice, the requirement that off- shore borrowing by private sector entities in Papua New Guinea may not exceed the debt/equity ratio of 3:1 is normally strictly enforced, except for com- panies involved in mining and oil exploration ac- tivities or in cases where sound economic reasons exist. Commercial banks may undertake offshore borrowing for on-lending to exporters, provided that assumption of exchange risk is not involved. A minimum moratorium period of one year is re- quired for repayments on foreign debt following loan disbursement. Gold Dealings in gold in Papua New Guinea were de- regulated, with effect from January 1, 1987, when royalties and the withholding tax payable on sales of alluvial gold were removed and replaced with a 5 percent ad valorem export tax. The exportation and importation of gold by individuals are not permitted. Changes During 1991 Payments for Invisibles August 1. Following the passage of the Insurance (Amendment) Act, the remittance overseas of pre- miums on all insurance policies of permanent resi- dents, covering risks in Papua New Guinea, includ- ing policies written af ter 1975 in the names of permanent residents covering only the death-risk element, was permitted only with the approval of the Commissioner of Insurance. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Paraguay is the Paraguayan Guarani. The authorities do not maintain margins in respect of foreign exchange transactions, and ex- change rates are determined largely on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market. Although the Central Bank of Paraguay intervenes when necessary to smooth out undesir- able fluctuations, it does not interfere with underly- ing market trends. Private and public transactions in respect of merchandise imports and exports, ser- vices, and private capital transactions are carried out through the authorized commercial banks or exchange houses. On December 31, 1991, the aver- age rate prevailing in this market was G 1,370 per US$1. Public debt-service payments and payments for government services are channeled through the Central Bank at the rate prevailing on the day of the transaction. No commissions are assessed on these transactions if debtors have foreign exchange on deposit with the Central Bank. The Central Bank charges a commission of 0.5 percent on sales of foreign exchange to the Gov- ernment for the payment of imports of goods and services. Capital inflows relating to investment projects approved under Decree Law No. 60/90 on Investment Incentives for Economic Development are exempt from all taxes and customs duties. The commercial banks are not required to transfer all of their daily gross foreign exchange receipts to the Central Bank but must maintain a daily net position equivalent to no more than 50 percent of their capital and reserves. They are required to report their daily transactions to the Central Bank. Commercial banks are permitted to enter into forward transactions with respect to trade transactions and on terms that may be negotiated freely with customers. Administration of Control The Central Bank determines foreign exchange policy and supervises, through the Superinten- dency of Banks, the foreign exchange transactions carried out by the banks and the exchange houses. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments between Paraguay and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Re- public, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay, and Vene- zuela are made through accounts maintained with the Central Bank of Paraguay and the other central banks concerned within the framework of the multi- lateral clearing arrangements of the Latin American Integration Association. Clearing takes place every four months. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain products require authorization from the appropriate agency, depending on the product imported. These include table wine in bulk, natural grape must concentrate, rice in the husk or with any degree of processing, gasoline, diesel oil, gas oil, kerosene, iron rods, and potatoes, garlic, and onions during local harvest seasons. Im- ports of most petroleum and petroleum products are made through the National Petroleum Com- pany, PETROPAR. Liquefied natural gas (LNG) and aviation fuel may be imported by the private sector. All importers must be registered at the central bank. A tax ranging from 3 percent to 70 percent is levied on most imports depending on the customs specifications, which are based on the Brussels No- menclature. Banks collect the tax at the time of delivery of documents for customs clearance or when the import payment is made, whichever is earlier. The following are the principal import items exempt from tariffs: imports for religious, charita- ble, cultural, or educational purposes; imports for the Government; furniture acquired through inheri- tance; all imports exempted according to interna- tional treaties; the accompanied baggage of interna- tional passengers or nationals returning to establish residence in Paraguay; books and periodicals; and imports under Decree Law No. 60/90. Specific prod- ucts originating in neighboring countries are sub- ject to a single tax of 10 percent. Imports of certain goods intended for sale in the tourist trade in the country, except for those originating in neighboring countries, are subject to a 7 percent ta r i f f. Alcohol- powered automobiles, tractors, and motorcycles are subject to only 60 percent of the surcharge estab- lished for vehicles with equivalent specifications using other fuels. Imports of agricultural machinery and equipment are subject to special reduced-rate tariffs. As a member of the Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR), which came into effect at the end of November 1991, Paraguay has scheduled the 378 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY 379 elimination of all trade barriers with Argentina, Bra- zil, and Uruguay by December 31, 1995. Tariff rates were reduced across the board by a cumulative 54 percent in November and December 1991, and fur ther general reductions are projected to take place every six months thereafter. Imports of a number of products that might jeopardize national security, public order, or public health are prohibited. The Ministry of Finance is entitled to lift import restrictions on basic foods tuffs, seeds, and cement when domestic pro- duction shortfalls are such that domestic demand cannot be met through internal supply. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles are carried out through the authorized commercial banks or ex- change houses without restriction. Travelers may take out any amount in foreign or domestic cur- rency. There is an ad valorem sales tax of 5 percent on international airline tickets. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of logs and rough beams and some other unprocessed forest products are prohibited, as are exports of rawhides, livestock, horses, wild ani- mals, sheep, goats, pigs, and rabbits. Certain other exports require prior authorization from the appro- priate agency to ensure adequate supplies for do- mestic consumption and to meet the needs of do- mestic industries. All other exports are free from licensing requirements, but some require a certifi- cate issued by the National Institute of Technology and Standardization, the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, the Ministry of Public Health and Social Welfare, or the Ministry of Agriculture and Live- stock, depending on the product exported. Export levies, ranging from 1 percent to 7 percent, are applied to most products, with proceeds earmarked to a special budgetary fund .1 All exporters are required to be registered at the Central Bank. The proceeds of exports must be col- lected within 120 days after completion of the bank- ing formalities related to the shipping documents; the foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered at authorized banks for conversion at the exchange rate prevailing on the day of the transaction. Proceeds from Invisibles Except for foreign exchange inflows from the bi- national entities (which have to be transferred in full Affective January 1, 1992, the export levies on cotton and soybeans were eliminated. to the Central Bank), there are no surrender re- quirements for proceeds from invisibles. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign or domestic currency. Capital All inward and outward transfers must be chan- neled through the commercial banks or exchange houses. Repatriation of earnings of enterprises and commercial banks is allowed through the free ex- change market. Under Decree Law No. 27/90, the Government grants exemptions from taxes, customs, and import surcharges to proposed in- vestments that are duly registered and approved. Gold Under Decree Law No. 18/52, the Central Bank may prescribe the maximum amount of gold (and foreign exchange) that residents may hold; this re- quirement does not apply to amounts held by the Central Bank or by institutions authorized to deal in foreign currencies. In practice, residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, in Para- guay or abroad, and exchange houses may freely deal in gold coins, gold bars, and gold leaf with residents and nonresidents. Exports and imports of gold by nonbank residents and industrial users in any form other than jewelry require the prior ap- proval of the Central Bank; payments for gold im- ports by industrial users must be made through authorized banks. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement December 20. Banks were required to maintain a daily net position in foreign exchange equivalent to no more than 50 percent of their capital and reserves. Imports and Import Payments June 7. Merchandise imports for retail sale in the domestic market were no longer permitted to enter the country as accompanied luggage and required to be declared and identified in the cargo invoice. This regulation would apply to imports shipped by air, sea, and land transport. October 10. Quantitative restrictions on some produc ts were abolished, and ta r i ff rates were lowered on a number of others (Decree No. 11/245). November 30. The first general reduction in tariff rates contemplated by the Southern Cone Common ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 380 PARAGUAY Market (MERCOSUR) was implemented. Tariff rates for most products were lowered by 47 percent. December 31. Under the MERCOSUR agreement, tariff rates were reduced by a fu r ther 7 percent. Exports and Export Proceeds January 28. Exports of certain fine processed woods were prohibited, and a 1 percent surcharge was levied on exports of beef. February 22. A temporary 3 percent surcharge was imposed on the reference price for exports of soy- beans produced north of the Ypana River, subject to a ceiling of 150,000 metric tons. September 5. Nontraditional exports were exempted f rom the export levies (Decree No. 10/804). October 3. The list of nontraditional exports ex- empted from export levies was expanded (Decree No. 11/132). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Peru is the Nuevo Sol. The nuevo sol (S/.) replaced the Peruvian inti effective July 1, 1991 at a conversion rate of S/. 1 per I/. 1 million. The external value of the nuevo sol is freely determined by participants in the exchange market on the basis of supply and demand conditions. On Decem- ber 31,1991, the average interbank transaction rate, as determined by the Superintendency of Banking, was S/. 0.96 per US$1. Exchange transactions may be conducted in 15 currencies other than the U.S. dollar on the basis of their cross rate relation- ship in terms of the U.S. dollar in the international market.1 Enterprises and natural persons were given per- mission during 1991 to hold foreign exchange bal- ances abroad. There are no arrangements for for- ward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Bank accounts in foreign currencies may be held with domestic banks. Peru formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Exchange houses are authorized to purchase foreign exchange and traveler's checks f rom resi- dents and nonresidents and to sell foreign ex- change for tourism abroad and for repurchases by nonresidents. Borrowing abroad by the public sector, as well as borrowing abroad by the private sector with a gov- ernment guarantee, is subject to prior approval by Supreme Decree, on the recommendation of the External Debt Committee. Public enterprises are required to register their short-term indebtedness with the General Directorate of Public Credit (GDPC). Moreover, as of January 1983, the enter- prises must submit their annual short-term borrow- ing programs to the GDPC. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. All exchange market operations must be effected in 1 of the 15 prescribed convertible currencies, but exchange certificates may be issued by the Central Reserve Bank only in U.S. dollars. Payments be- tween Peru and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mex- ico, Paraguay, Uruguay, and Venezuela must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru and the other central banks concerned, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin Ameri- can Integration Association (LAIA). Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain goods are prohibited from all sources for social, health, or security reasons. No other imports are restricted. Imports of raw mate- rials and intermediate goods for the production of exports are exempted from import duties, provided that the appropriate ministry determines that such imports qualify under the Temporary Admission Regime. All monopolies on the importation of goods have been abolished, including the restrictions that milk powder and wheat may be imported only by the National Enterprise for Input Marketing, and that crude petroleum and petroleum derivatives may be imported only by PETROPERU, a state-owned enterprise. With some specified exemptions, imported goods are subject to a uniform value-added tax of 16 per- cent of the c . i .f. value of imports (in addition to the import duty); exempted from the value-added tax are some agricultural products, certain minerals and fuels, medicines, and items for personal use (including automobiles up to 2,000 cubic centime- ters). The maximum rate of import tariff is 25 per- cent ad valorem. In 1991, authorization was granted for advance payments for all imports without restriction. Legis- lation has been enacted requiring pre-inspection at the port of embarkation by international firms. Payments for Invisibles 1For external trade transactions, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Nether- lands guilders, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, and Swiss francs; for nontrade transactions, transactions may also be effected in Austrian schillings, Canadian dollars, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kroner, and Venezuelan bolivares. Payments for almost all invisibles other than public debt service are not subject to payments authorization. Remittances of net profits require a prior tax clear- ance. Foreign investment by petroleum companies 381 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 382 PERU is subject to special contracts with the Peruvian Government. Quantitative limits on the sale of foreign ex- change for business travel abroad, tourist travel abroad, education allowances, family maintenance, and medical treatment were removed in 1991. Re- mittances of earnings by foreign workers are not restricted. A tax of $30 is levied on travel abroad. Exports and Export Proceeds Export prohibitions apply to 65 items, mainly rare wildlife and plants, cottonseed cakes, natural rub- ber, and mineral ores. Exports of gold are no longer prohibited. State enterprise monopolies in the ex- portation of mining and petroleum products were eliminated in 1991. Traditional exports must be fi- nanced against an irrevocable letter of credit con- firmed mainly by a bank established in Peru. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are not subject to sur- render requirements. Capital There are no restrictions on outward capital trans- fers, including amortization of private sector debts that are not publicly guaranteed. Short-term trade credits with banks owed by pub- lic sector borrowers that have not signed a refinanc- ing agreement are to be rolled over on maturity until the agreement is signed. Local currency funds for the servicing of these debts are to be placed on deposit in special accounts at the Central Reserve Bank on the maturity date of the original obligation. With the permission of the Central Reserve Bank, funds in these special accounts may be lent out domestically as loans denominated in foreign cur- rency, with a maturity of less than one year. New foreign investments must be registered with the National Commission on Foreign Investment and Technology. If a foreign company incorporated in Peru wishes to benefit from the duty-free pro- gram of the Cartagena Agreement, it must agree to the gradual acquisition by national investors of shares in the company, so as to transform it into a mixed or national company during a maximum period of 30 years following the entering into effect of this regime. For this purpose, the required par- ticipation of national investors in the capital of these enterprises is not less than 15 percent in the first 3 years; this participation must be raised to at least 30 percent a f ter 10 years, to at least 45 percent af ter 20 years, and to at least 51 percent at the end of the 30-year period. Mixed companies are defined as those in which national investors hold between 51 percent and 80 percent of the capital, and na- tional companies are those in which national inves- tors own at least 80 percent of the capital. Investment in the mining sector is governed by the General Mining Legislative Law as modified by Decree 708. The Government may grant to mining concessionaries (initiating large-scale investment programs) tax incentives and guaranteed avail- ability of foreign exchange. Gold The exportation and importation of gold are not restricted. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement March 27. Natural and juridical persons resident in the country were permitted to hold, and dispose of, foreign exchange internally or externally with- out restriction. The Unified Exchange Market Law was suspended. July 1. The nuevo sol replaced the inti as the national currency. Imports and Import Payments March 12. The temporary admission regime, which had previously applied only to the manufac- turing sector, was expanded to include all sectors of the economy. March 12. Tariffs were lowered. Goods that were previously subject to an ad valorem tariff of 50 per- cent were made subject to an ad valorem tariff of 25 percent or 15 percent. Goods previously subject to a rate of 25 percent were made subject to a rate of 15 percent. All import surcharges other than the value-added tax and selected consumption taxes were eliminated. Exemptions from import duties continued to be granted with respect to the follow- ing categories of imports: universities and educa- tion and cultural centers; international agreements; donations for the public sector; gold, silver, and bank notes by the Central Bank; imports by diplo- mats and functionaries of international organiza- tions; and arms. March 12. Sanitary restrictions on the importation of vegetable products and meats were modified. March 13. Advance payment of up to 100 percent of the value of imports was authorized. March 21. A compensatory import surcharge on agricultural imports was established. The surcharge would be based on the difference between reference prices for agricultural goods and lower actual prices, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU 383 and funds from the surcharge would be used to support the agricultural sector. March 22. The municipal tax on imports was reintroduced. March 23. All nontariff restrictions on imports (and exports) other than specific prohibitions for sanitary and security reasons were eliminated. March 27. All state monopolies on production and internal and external marketing of certain products were eliminated. Among the affected industries were those in the foods tu f fs, fishing, and mining sectors. March 29. The importation of used equipment was authorized. Tariffs would be based on the price of a comparable new product, discounted by 10 percent for each use. April 6. It was announced that restrictions would be imposed on imports of rice, sugar, wheat flour, soybean cakes, cotton, wheat, corn, fruits, and or- namental plants for sanitary reasons. April 30. The National Committees for rice, coffee, wheat, milk products, and hydrobiological prod- ucts, which regulated foreign trade in agricultural products, were eliminated. May 2. The compensatory surcharge on milk, but- ter, wheat, corn, rice, sorghum, flour, corn, wheat, noodles, and sugar was replaced with a specific tax expressed in U.S. dollars per metric ton based on price differentials between the actual price and a reference price. May 15.lt was established that the exchange rate to be used to calculate import duties would be the exchange rate prevailing on the date of payment; previously, the rate prevailing at the time the import license was issued was applied. June 13. Antidumping and associated compensa- tory legislation were enacted. June 27. Tariff preferences for certain agricultural imports from Latin American Integration Associa- tion member countries were temporarily suspended. September 21. Modifications to the legal framework for free trade zones and special treat- ment zones were enacted. October 9. For a period of one year, local govern- ment imports of equipment and machinery for trash removal and public cleaning would be exempted from import duties and value-added taxes. October 19. Procedures for phased payments of ta r i f fs on imports of capital goods by state mining enterprises were established. October 26. Operating rules for the Industrial Free Trade Zones of Matarani, Ilo, Chimbote, Trujillo, Pisco, and Paita were established. November 11. A new customs law was enacted. The law specified that exemptions from customs duties would be established by law (rather than through administrative measures). November 11. A list of products that may be im- ported free of duties and without restriction from Andean Group countries was established. November 12. Procedures for preshipment inspec- tion of price and quality by international super- visory firms were established. November 27. The procedures for determining dumping and price subsidies were established. December 16. The operating rules for the Tumbes Special Treatment Zone were enacted. December 20. Penalties (equal to five times the undeclared tax obligation) were established for mis- reporting the prices of imported goods. December 31. A compensatory antidumping law for imports of steel products from nonmembers of the Andean Group was established, and the execu- tive branch was mandated to establish, where ap- propriate, compensating antidumping duties on imports from Andean Group countries. A selective import consumption tax of 10 percent was enacted on imports of steel products. Payments for Invisibles February 9. All quantitative limits on payments for services were eliminated. Banks were permitted to effect payments abroad for any service payment following presentation of a legal declaration regard- ing the purposes of the payment. Payments of profits, dividends, and royalties would remain sub- ject to additional reporting requirements. March 12. Insurance companies were permitted to enter freely into reinsurance agreements with for- eign and domestic companies. Exports and Export Proceeds March 12. The surrender requirements for export proceeds were simplified. March 17. All export taxes were eliminated. March 19. A transitory mechanism was estab- lished, whereby exporters could receive a credit against their income and wealth taxes for taxes (tar- iffs, value-added, and social security) paid on ex- ported goods. If the tax credit exceeded tax obliga- tions, the credit would be transferable in the form of tax credit certificates. March 20. Agricultural products required a certifi- cate of sanitary control to certify that they were free of cholera. March 24. The list of restricted exports was abolished. April 3. A tax at rates of zero, 5 percent, or 10 per- cent depending on the relation of actual prices to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 384 PERU established reference prices was established for ex- ports of copper, silver, zinc, and lead. Nonmining traditional exports specified in DS 073-85-ICTI/ CO-CE were made subject to a 5 percent tax. These taxes would remain in effect until the end of 1991. April 4. Firms producing inputs for domestic ex- ports were made eligible to participate in the tempo- rary admission regime. April 17. The system of sanctions for infractions of the foreign exchange surrender requirements was suspended. Capital March 11. Interest rates for foreign exchange de- posits and loans from the domestic banking system were liberated. March 13. Restrictions on the transfer abroad of foreign exchange by the private sector were elimi- nated. Banks were permitted to transfer funds for domestic residents to establish foreign exchange deposits overseas and to make financial and nonfi- nancial investments. The restrictions on frozen for- eign currency deposits in the domestic banking sys- tem were lifted. March 14. The foreign investment regime was simplified, and authorization was granted to direct investment in all sectors of the economy, except those expressly reserved by law. Profits, dividends, and royalties were made freely transferable follow- ing prior payment of applicable taxes. Foreign capi- tal would remain subject to restrictions under the Andean Pact. March 22. Blocked deposits at the Central Bank established under Supreme Decree 260-86-EF for purposes of servicing private sector debts were per- mitted to be withdrawn. April 25. The legal framework for the domestic financial industry was revised, whereby foreign in- vestments in the banking, financial, and insurance sectors would be treated on the same basis as do- mestic investments. July 27. The restrictions on amortization of work- ing capital loans, in e f fect since 1983, were extended at least up to February 1992. November 15. The reciprocal credit agreement with Cuba was suspended until fu r ther notice. December 3. The requirements established in 1983 by Exchange Resolution 002-83-EFC/90 prohibiting the servicing of working capital loans were abro- gated, and banks were permitted to withdraw up to $12 million of deposited proceeds from the Central Bank. Gold March 20. Restrictions on trade in processed and unrefined gold were eliminated. The Central Bank would operate in the gold market under conditions of free competition. Sales of gold by the domestic mining industry were exempted from the value- added tax. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Philippines is the Philippine Peso. The authorities of the Philippines do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transac- tions, and exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply in the exchange mar- ket. However, the authorities intervene when neces- sary to maintain orderly conditions in the exchange market and in light of their other policy objectives in the medium term. On December 27, 1991, the offi- cial rate was P 26.65 per US$1. The Central Bank is not governed by the trading rules of the Bankers' Association of the Philippines in making its own purchases and sales of foreign exchange, except for transactions conducted at the trading center. Inter- bank trading takes place on-floor at the Foreign Ex- change Trading Center (FOREX) from 4:30 p .m. through 5:00 p.m. daily. Off-floor interbank trading is prohibited.1 The Central Bank from time to time acts as a buyer or a supplier on the trading floor. Under the Private Corporate Sector Foreign Cur- rency Debt Repayment Program (Central Bank Circular Nos. 1076 and 1178) administered by the Private Debt Restructuring and Repayment Cor- poration (PDRRC), corporate debtors and their for- eign creditors are provided with options for arrang- ing repayments and rescheduling, with partial forward exchange cover provided if desired by the debtor; full forward cover is provided only for finan- cially distressed borrowers. To be eligible for the program, debt must be non-trade-related; owed to a bank or financial institution, except multilateral agencies, and foreign government agencies that are members of the Paris Club; outstanding and duly registered with the Central Bank as of October 17, 1983; and falling due between October 17,1983 and December 31,1986 (Central Bank Circular No. 1076) or between January 1, 1987 and December 31, 1992 (Central Bank Circular No. 1178). If partial (75 per- cent) forward cover is provided, the PDRRC enters into a forward contract with the debtor, whereby the debtor would pay to the PDRRC peso amounts 1 Since April 28, 1992, commercial banks have been allowed to trade in foreign exchange through the Philippine Dealing System (PDS) or by telephone. However, since not all banks are equipped with the necessary system and hardware for off-floor trading, the BAP trading is still operational. Exchange rates are thus deter- mined by the results of both off- and on-floor trading. It is envisaged that once this system of off-floor trading is properly put in place, on-floor trading will cease to operate. equivalent to the rescheduled maturities converted at the central bank selling rate for U.S. dollars pre- vailing on the date that the eligible debt was effec- tively entered into the program, plus quarterly fees equal to the product of the domestic interest rate prevailing at the beginning of the quarter and the peso value of the outstanding debt. The PDRRC would remit the peso value of the obligation at the prevailing central bank selling rate for U.S. dollars to the Treasury Department of the Central Bank, which, in turn, would assume the principal obliga- tion; the PDRRC also remits interest payments to the creditor at LIBOR through the Central Bank. On the other hand, if 100 percent forward cover is pro- vided, the PDRRC extends a notional peso loan to the borrower equal to the peso equivalent of the debt involved, converted at the central bank selling rate for U.S. dollars prevailing on the date the debt was effectively entered into the program. Subject to PDRRCs receipt from the debtor of the service pay- ments on this notional peso loan, the PDRRC would remit the service payments on the foreign loan to the Treasury Department of the Central Bank, which, in turn, would assume the foreign loan in favor of the creditor. Under the Philippine Private Financial Sector For- eign Currency Debt Repayment Program (Central Bank Circular No. 1081, superseded by No. 1179) administered by the Central Bank, private financial sector borrowers and their foreign lenders are pro- vided with options for the rescheduling of their specified debt outstanding as of October 17, 1983. Options, usually on the part of the lenders, include: (1) retention by the lender of the private financial obligor's credit risk, subject to repayment as follows: one sixth of the principal amount in each of the calendar years 1993 and 1994, and one third of the principal amount in each of the calendar years 1995 and 1996, and (2) central bank assumption of the foreign obligation involved through the delivery of Philippine pesos, or as may be agreed between the Central Bank and the borrower. For obligations thus assumed, the Central Bank executes a Credit Sched- ule under the Central Bank Restructuring Agree- ment corresponding to the dollar equivalent of each such peso amount delivered by the borrower to the Central Bank. A private financial sector borrower in respect of a specified debt, which is covered by an existing swap or foreign exchange contract entered into with the Central Bank for its own account, may 385 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 386 PHILIPPINES continue to benefit from the forward exchange rate set forth in that contract. The Central Bank likewise extends forward ex- change cover to the foreign liability of the national government and 14 specified nonfinancial public sector corporations. They are required to deposit the peso equivalent of the obligation in a blocked account on the date of the original maturity, com- puted on the basis of the exchange rate prevailing on the date of deposit, with the Central Bank through the national Treasury or with their autho- rized agent banks. The deposit is for the peso equiv- alent of amortization of principal, interest, and penalties, if any, on their foreign exchange obliga- tions owed to foreign commercial banks, maturing between January 1,1987 and December 31,1992 and subject to rescheduling. With respect to obligations owed to the Paris Club, all Paris Club borrowers with loans assumed by the Central Bank under the Paris Club reschedul- ings are enjoined to deposit with the Central Bank on the original due date the peso equivalent of 100 percent of principal and interest maturing from 1991 to 1995. The Central Bank provides the corre- sponding forward cover for the amount deposited and pays the rescheduling interest from the date of deposit. Administration of Control Exchange regulations are administered by the Central Bank on the basis of policy decisions adopted by the Monetary Board. Without prior ap- proval, a non-Philippine national, not otherwise disqualified by law, may engage in business in the Philippines or invest in a domestic enterprise up to 100 percent of his capital. Only authorized agent banks (AABs), all of which are commercial banks, may engage in both sale and purchase operations in foreign exchange. Autho- rized foreign exchange agents (AFXAs) and autho- rized foreign exchange buyers (AFXBs) may not sell foreign exchange to the general public but may pur- chase foreign currencies from tourists and other specified nonresidents for conversion into pesos and may accept foreign exchange in payment of goods and services rendered.2 AFXAs consist of thrift and rural banks, three- to five-star hotels and resorts in the "AA" or "AAA" categories as classi- fied by the Department of Tourism (DOT), duty-free shops, supermarkets, department stores, and other 2Since January 3,1992, all categories of banks duly licensed by the Central Bank have been considered as AABs. Moreover, AFXAs and AFXBs can now engage in the purchase and sale of foreign exchange. tourist-oriented establishments accredited by the DOT and issued authority by the Central Bank. AFXBs are nonbank entities authorized by the Cen- tral Bank to purchase foreign exchange with pesos from the general public. AABs are required to maintain a balanced foreign exchange position. Foreign assets may exceed lia- bilities only by as much as their average monthly payments for merchandise imports and invisibles during the previous 12 months. Foreign liabilities may not exceed assets by more than $500,000. Any cumulative net excesses or shortfalls must be settled weekly.3 Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments for outgoing payments, but all exchange pro- ceeds from exports and invisibles must be obtained in prescribed currencies.4 Most payments and transfers to South Africa are prohibited. Autho- rized agent banks and foreign exchange agents and buyers are authorized to accept notes denominated in the prescribed currencies for conversion into pesos. Nonresident Accounts Bank accounts denominated in pesos may be opened in the names of nonresidents, whether indi- vidual or corporate, without the prior approval of the Central Bank. Nonresident accounts may be credited only with the proceeds from inward remit- tances of foreign exchange or convertible foreign currencies and with peso income from, or peso proceeds of, conversion of properties (real or per- sonal) located in the Philippines and belonging to nonresidents. Nonresident accounts may be freely debited for peso withdrawals. Withdrawals from nonresident accounts for transfer abroad are subject to individual application with supporting evidence and to established limits where applicable, such as in the case of emigrants. Both residents and nonresidents may maintain foreign currency accounts with authorized agent banks in the Philippines (see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, below). 3This regulation was amended on January 30, 1992 to specify the maximum net foreign exchange position as a percentage of the bank's capital. 4Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Bahrain dinars, Belgian francs, Brunei dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Indonesian rupiahs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Malaysian ringgit, Nether- lands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Singapore dollars, Swiss francs, Thai baht, and U.S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 387 Imports and Import Payments Generally, all merchandise imports are allowed without a license. However, certain commodities are regulated/restricted for reasons of public health, safety, international commitments, development, and rationalization of local industries. Imports are classified into three categories: freely importable, prohibited, and regulated. Products that are freely importable may be processed by au- thorized agent banks without prior approval from the Central Bank. Products in the second category, whose importation is prohibited, include those originating in the Republic of South Africa, onions, potatoes, garlic, cabbages (except for seedling pur- poses), coffee, used clothing and rags, and toy guns. The third category consists of products whose importation requires clearance and permits from various government agencies, including the Central Bank. Sales of foreign exchange for imports of com- modities that are classified under the two categories of consumer goods —unclassified consumer (UC) and nonessential consumer (NEC) —are subject to prior approval from the Central Bank. Imports on a consignment basis require prior central bank ap- proval, except for products imported by the Export Processing Zone Authority (EPZA) —registered firms authorized by the EPZA board and imports of raw materials and supplies of firms registered with the Garments and Textile Export Board. The impor- tation of machinery, equipment, and spare parts, except when they are regulated imports, may be approved by AABs without prior approval from the Central Bank or the Board of Investments. The im- portation of capital goods financed through foreign credits must be referred to the Central Bank for prior approval. Imports originating in socialist or centrally planned countries require the prior approval of the Philippine International Trading Corporation. Pre- shipment inspection is required for imports valued at more than $500 and for those originating in the ten countries covered by the Comprehensive Im- ports Supervision Scheme (CISS), namely: Brunei, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Japan, Republic of Korea, Macao, Malaysia, Singapore, Taiwan Province of China, and Thailand.5 Commodities may be imported against letters of credit, or on a documents against acceptance (D/A) basis, or under open account (O/A) arrangements. The D/A and O/A procedures are restricted to oil firms, export-oriented companies certified or regis- 5On March 16, 1992, the CISS was expanded to include all ports of origin for Philippine imports. tered by the Central Bank, the Board of Investments (BOI), the Garments and Textile Export Board, the EPZA, exporters of semiconductor devices, export- ers of garments and footwear, franchised public utility concerns, participants in the Car Develop- ment Program, Commercial Vehicle Development Program, Progressive Export Program for Con- sumer Electronics Products, Diesel Engine Develop- ment Program, and accredited participants in the BOI Pulp and Paper Industry Rationalization Pro- gram. The use of these procedures by producer firms is normally restricted to commodities in the Essential Producer (EP) Goods category. However, firms belonging to certain industries are eligible to import non-EP items under such arrangements. Unless arrangements are made for terms of credit, imports valued at less than $500 may generally be effected through direct remittance while those val- ued at more than $500 must be covered by letters of credit opened on or before the date of shipment. All import transactions channeled through AABs are reported to the Central Bank within 48 hours of the transaction for letters of credit and within 48 hours of the issuance of release certificates for D/A and O/A availments, for monitoring purposes. Separate regulations apply to imports into spe- cific regions by barter traders. Payments for Invisibles Virtually all payments to South Africa are pro- hibited. In principle, all other payments are permit- ted, with the prior approval of the Central Bank, provided that amounts of more than $100 are sub- stantiated by documentary evidence. However, cer- tain limits are established by the Central Bank for purchases of foreign exchange for travel abroad by residents; remittances for educational expenses, maintenance, and expenses of dependents of resi- dents while abroad; allowances for medical treat- ment; remittances of earnings by foreign workers; remittances of profits, dividends, and interest; roy- alties; and film and other rentals (see below). For- eign exchange allowances for travel abroad are lim- ited to the following amounts: (1) for both business and nonbusiness travel, irrespective of duration, up to a maximum of $3,000 for Africa, Australia, Can- ada, Europe, Japan, the Middle East, New Zealand, South America, and the United States (Area I); (2) for both business and nonbusiness travel, irre- spective of duration, up to a maximum of $1,000 for Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea, Malaysia, Sin- gapore, Taiwan, Thailand, and other countries cov- ered under (1) (Area II); (3) for travelers under 21 years of age, up to a maximum of $500, irrespective of duration and destination; and (4) for overseas ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 388 PHILIPPINES contract workers with prearranged employment, up to a maximum of $100.6 Foreign tourists holding a visa valid for up to 59 days may remit abroad up to the equivalent of $1,000 against payment in another foreign currency they brought in; for amounts ex- ceeding this limit, approval must be obtained from the Central Bank.7 The following limits apply to exchange for educa- tional expenses abroad for students undertaking bachelor's, master's, or doctoral degree courses at duly accredited colleges or universities. The al- lowances are divided according to the areas in which the study is undertaken: living allowances are provided up to $500 a month in Area I and $350 a month in Area II; allowances for books and supplies up to $500 a year in both areas; clothing allowance up to $500 a year in Area I and $300 a year in Area II; other miscellaneous school expenses are allowed up to $500 a year in Area I and $300 a year in Area II. Any scholarship allowances are deducted from these amounts. High school students may be granted foreign exchange for education only under an exchange program and under the following con- ditions: the maximum travel funds for each student are $500, and the maximum clothing allowance and incidental expenses during the stay abroad are $500, or a total of $1,000 a student a calendar year. The limits on remittances to dependents of resi- dents are as follows: $250 a month for each depend- ent living in Area I as defined above, and $150 a month for each dependent living in Area II. The maintenance allowances for dependents are granted only for close relatives under conditions prescribed by the Central Bank. Allowances for health and medical expenses in- curred abroad may be remitted, provided that the amount does not exceed $3,000 for initial expenses and is verified with a hospital or doctor's itemized bill. Additional amounts, if any, may be remitted directly to the hospital or doctor abroad upon sub- mission of supporting documents.8 Foreign nationals with a special temporary visa who hold an alien employment permit issued by the Department of Labor and Employment and who are employed in the Philippines may remit no more than 50 percent of their net compensation (salary, excluding fringe benefits and bonuses) net of with- holding tax. 6On January 3, 1992, travel allowances for residents were in- creased to a maximum of $5,000 a trip a person, regardless of duration, destination, or purpose of travel. 7Effective January 3,1992, this approval requirement was abol- ished (Circular No. 1318). 8On January 3, 1992, medical allowances were increased to a maximum of $50,000 upon presentation of supporting docu- ments to AABs. Remittances of profits and dividends (net of taxes) accruing to nonresidents realized after Octo- ber 14, 1984 are permitted in full, provided that the investments are registered with the Central Bank and that the remittances are not financed from do- mestic borrowings.9 Remittances of royalties or rentals on patents, trademarks, and copyrights ac- cruing after October 14, 1984 are freely permitted (net of taxes) for contracts registered with the Cen- tral Bank or the Bureau of Patents, Trademarks, and Technology Transfers. Remittances of the pro- ducer's share of earnings (net of deductible ex- penses and taxes) made on motion picture films are freely permitted, provided generally that the shares do not exceed 60 percent of net proceeds from films. Television film rentals are not subject to the 60 per- cent limit but are remittable in full based on rates stipulated in individual contracts or agreements.10 Notwithstanding other provisions, however, all un- serviced, eligible, nontrade, nonloan remittances (for example, dividends, profits, royalties, lease payments, fees, and commissions) earned and hav- ing become due and payable before October 15, 1984 and in arrears of transfers as of that date shall not be serviced without prior central bank approval.11 Dividends of current income arising from equity investments in nonpriority sectors made in connec- tion with the program for the conversion of external debt into equity investments may not be transferred for the first four years after the investment is made; thereafter, such dividends and current income may be transferred. Foreign exchange within the limits established above may be purchased from authorized agent banks; the prior approval of the Central Bank is required specifically for foreign exchange remit- tances of tourists in excess of $1,000, and for profits and dividends. The Central Bank considers applica- tions for payments for certain invisibles for which no basic allowance has been set on their merits.12 No person may take out or export from the Philip- pines foreign currency or any other foreign ex- change except as authorized by the Central Bank. In addition to the allowable limits on travel funds, resi- dents may take out foreign currency notes up to $1,000. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign 9Since January 3, 1992, full and immediate repatriation of profits and dividends has been allowed. 10Effective January 3,1992, remittance of the producer's share from films shall be based on net revenue. 11 Effective January 3, 1992, the approval requirement was eliminated (Circular No. 1318). 12Effective January 3,1992, the prior approval requirement was eliminated (Circular No. 1318). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 389 currency in an amount not exceeding the amount they had previously brought in. Amounts in excess of $10,000 or its equivalent in other foreign curren- cies may be taken out provided that they were de- clared in writing at the time of entry.13 Resident and nonresident travelers require prior authorization from the Central Bank to take out more than P 1,000 in domestic bank notes and coins or checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange drawn in pesos. When traveling abroad, citizens of the Phil- ippines must pay a travel tax of P 2,700 for first-class passage and PI,620 for economy-class passage. Re- duced rates of PI,350 for first-class passengers and P810 for economy-class passengers are provided for groups of people traveling for recognized special purposes. Reduced rates of P400 for first-class pas- sengers and P300 for economy-class passengers are provided for dependents of contract workers duly registered with the Philippine Overseas Employ- ment Administration. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa and all exports of logs and lumber are prohibited. Exports of certain com- modities, mostly agricultural or traditional prod- ucts, deemed essential for industrialization, conser- vation, and economic development are regulated and require prior export clearance from the govern- ment agencies concerned. Otherwise, exports are generally not restricted. All exports must be covered by export declarations/permits issued by authorized agent banks of the Central Bank. In addition, export com- modities classified as "traditional" must be covered by a report of foreign sales—to be filed by the expor- ter within 24 hours of closing the sale.14 Export proceeds must be received in 1 of the 21 designated foreign currencies (see footnote 4). As a general rule, the shipping documents and the export payments must be channeled through the local banking system; however, payment under O/A arrangements may be allowed with the prior ap- proval of the Central Bank. Unless fully prepaid (or under O/A), the exporter must, within ten days of the date of completion of loading, present to the authorized agent bank the covering d ra ft with ship- ping documents for negotiation or collection. If fully prepaid, the exporter must present copies of the 13Since January 21, 1992, foreign exchange not required to be sold to AABs may be freely sold or brought out of the country. In addition, nonresidents are no longer required to declare the foreign exchange they bring in (Circular No. 1318). 14On March 9,1992, the requirement for report of foreign sales was abolished for all exporters. shipping documents within the same period for record-keeping purposes. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports must be transferred to the Philippines within 90 days of the date of shipment, unless a longer period is allowed by the Central Bank in special cases. Exporters may retain 2 percent of proceeds in a special foreign currency deposit account to meet certain specified costs associated with their business, while 98 per- cent must be surrendered to an authorized agent bank and converted into pesos within three busi- ness days of receipt.15 The undrawn balances of exports with initial drawings of less than 100 per- cent of f .o .b. invoice value must be transferred to the Philippines within 150 days of the date of ship- ment for exports to Europe, Africa, and Latin Amer- ica, and within 120 days of the date of shipment for exports to other countries. There are no export taxes. Export trade with socialist or centrally planned countries is handled through the Philippine Inter- national Trading Corporation. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold within three business days to an authorized agent bank.16 Whenever net foreign exchange receipts from invis- ibles amount to at least $100,000 (or its equivalent in other currencies) for the calendar year immediately preceding, the firm may, upon application, be cer- tified by the Central Bank as export oriented. It shall be entitled to retain a portion of its earnings in a special foreign currency deposit account with AABs for operating expenses abroad and other contingen- cies. Such earnings may not exceed the equivalent of the average expenses incurred during the preced- ing 3 months plus 10 percent of the gross foreign exchange receipts during the 12 months imme- diately preceding. Under a foreign currency deposit scheme, inward remittances of foreign currencies (including foreign bank notes, coins, and traveler's checks) by resi- dents or nonresidents for deposit in numbered for- eign currency accounts are allowed, provided that the remittances represent neither current earnings 15 On January 3, 1992, the retention ratio for exporters was increased to 40 percent. Since April 1, 1992, retained earnings have been allowed to be used freely. 16Effective January 3, 1992, the mandatory surrender require- ment was eliminated for most earnings from services, including remittances from overseas workers; surrender requirements abroad were retained for 15 groups of services including insur- ance, hotels, airlines, construction contracts, communications, and bunkering. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 390 PHILIPPINES or income of residents nor payments by non- residents pursuant to contractual obligations. Bal- ances in such accounts are freely transferable abroad. Philippine nationals working abroad are required to repatriate specified minimum shares of their foreign earnings, ranging from 50 percent to 80 percent.17 Travelers may freely bring in any amount of foreign currency and up to P 1,000 in domestic bank notes and coins and checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange drawn in pesos, of which not more than P 50 may consist of Philip- pine coins. Peso-denominated gold coins issued by the Central Bank of the Philippines are exempt from these requirements. Capital Virtually all payments and transfers to South Af- rica are prohibited. All inward and outward capital transfers, with the exception of certain banking op- erations and certain transactions related to the fi- nancing of international trade (see below), are sub- ject to the prior and specific approval of the Central Bank.18 When applications for new inward foreign investments (in kind or in cash) are reviewed, no priority or preference is given to the category of industry where investment is made, as long as (1) it does not violate the nationalization law and its re- quirements; (2) there is inward remittance for cash investments; and (3) investment in kind covers only machinery and equipment, raw materials, supplies and spare parts, and other items classified as EP, NEP, SEP, and UC that are necessary for the opera- tion of domestic companies in essential industries defined by the BOI to be within the scope and purview of the Omnibus Investment Code, par- ticularly the Investment Priorities Plan. The law guarantees full repatriation of cash investment in export-oriented industries that have been certified by the Central Bank, in enterprises registered with the BOI, and in securities certified by the Central Bank and traded on the Manila and Makati Stock Exchanges. Foreign companies are eligible to borrow pesos from domestic sources, provided they have a debt- equity ratio of 60:40 in high-priority sectors, 55:45 in medium-priority sectors, and 50:50 in low-priority sectors. 17On January 3, 1992, the repatriation requirement for over- seas workers was lifted. 18As of Janua ry 3, 1992, only outward investments fund ed by foreign exchange purchased f rom AABs require prior approval from the Central Bank. However, all inward investments need to be registered with the Central Bank in order to be entitled to fu ll and immediate repatriation and dividend/interest remittance privileges. Investments in domestic commercial banks regis- tered with the Central Bank, if made af ter May 31, 1973, may be repatriated freely, and, if made before that date, are repatriable according to the schedule specified under (4) in the following paragraph. Sales of foreign exchange for the repatriation of foreign direct investments are restricted, depend- ing on the category of industry in which the invest- ment is made, as follows: (1) investments in export- oriented industries certified by the Central Bank are repatriable in full, but no annual installment may exceed the applicant's share in the net foreign ex- change earnings of the firm in the preceding year; (2) investments in enterprises registered with the BOI, producing import substitutes or exports, are repatriable in three equal annual installments start- ing one year after the liquidation of the investment, but no annual installment may exceed the total net foreign exchange earnings in the preceding year; (3) investments in enterprises registered with the BOI (not included in (2) above and not utilizing domestic credit resources) are repatriable in three equal annual installments starting one year after the liquidation of the investment; and (4) for invest- ments in the remaining industries, repatriation is allowed according to the following schedule: for amounts of $0.25 million or less, five equal annual installments af ter liquidation; for amounts within the range $0.25-0.5 million, seven equal annual in- stallments after liquidation; and for amounts of over $0.5 million, nine equal annual installments after liquidation.19 Approval from and registration at the Central Bank are required for the assigned capital of branches of foreign banks to be eligible for profit remittances and capital repatriation. During the period between the sale of the investment and ac- tual repatriation, the proceeds may be reinvested, subject to approval by and registration with the Central Bank, in government securities, in shares of stock in BOI-registered industries, or in shares of stock in export-oriented industries certified by the Central Bank. Foreign direct investment is also permitted in connection with the Program for the Conversion of Philippine External Debt into Equity Investments. Under this program, most categories of external debt, including rescheduled debt, may be con- verted into equity investment. Specifically, with re- gard to central bank debt, regular quarterly auctions are held to allocate conversion rights. Other conver- sion operations must be approved by the Central Bank. For investments in the priority sectors, capital 19On January 3, 1992, these limits were eliminated (Circular No. 1318). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 391 repatriation is not permitted during the first three years after the investment, and during the fourth through eighth year, not more than 20 percent of the capital portion of the investment may be repaid in any one year; for investments in other sectors, capi- tal repatriation is not permitted during the first five years, and during the sixth through the tenth year, no more than 20 percent of the capital portion of the investment may be repaid in any one year. Without prior approval from the Central Bank, commercial banks may not receive credit from abroad other than credit arising from normal inter- national trade transactions. They may, however, ac- cept deposits in 22 scheduled currencies from non- residents of foreign nationality; such deposits are freely repatriable at the prevailing exchange rate and are exempt from the 35 percent withholding tax. Twenty-seven domestic commercial banks and four local branches of foreign banks are licensed to operate in an expanded foreign currency deposit scheme; these foreign currency deposit unit banks are empowered to borrow funds from international money markets for domestic on-lending. Nonbank residents may obtain foreign credits, subject to prior approval from the Central Bank, through the Management of the External Debt De- partment (MEDD). As a general rule, medium- and long-term foreign loans must be used to finance foreign exchange costs of eligible projects, for exam- ple: (1) export-oriented projects; (2) projects listed in the Annual Investment Priorities Plan of the BOI; (3) projects listed in the Medium-Term Public In- vestment Program prepared by the National Eco- nomic Development Authority; and (4) other proj- ects specifically authorized by Congress for financing through foreign loans. Proceeds of loans for private sector projects may, however, finance the foreign costs component and up to 50 percent of the total peso cost component of such projects, pro- vided that (1) the project is an export-oriented/ foreign-exchange-generating project registered with the BOI and certified by the Central Bank; (2) there is no net foreign exchange outflow for the duration of the foreign loan; (3) the loan is not cov- ered by a guarantee of the Government or any of the government corporations/financial institutions; and (4) the total amount of foreign loans for local cost financing does not exceed the indicative limit to be set by the Monetary Board. Maturities and interest rates must reflect prevail- ing conditions in the international capital markets. Appropriate grace periods must be imposed, with due consideration given to such concerns as the project's gestation period and the impact of the for- eign loan on the statutory debt-service ratio, among others. Total approval must, however, be in accor- dance with the limits for each maturity category as determined by the Monetary Board. Any prospec- tive borrowing equivalent to $3 million or more must be submitted for inclusion in the foreign borrowing program that is prepared by the Central Bank. Fur- thermore, foreign loans approved by the Central Bank are required to be registered subsequently with the Central Bank through the MEDD in order to be eligible for servicing principal and interest payments through authorized agent banks. For short-term foreign credits, eligible borrowers may obtain financing from (1) the $4 billion Revolv- ing Short-Term Trade Facility (RTF) for legitimate trade transactions; (2) a U.S. dollar-based credit fa- cility from Foreign Currency Deposit Units (FCDUs) of local commercial banks for peso cost require- ments of export projects or for peso or foreign ex- change working capital requirements of exporters, up to a limit of 70 percent of irrevocable export letters of credit; and (3) FCDUs, Offshore Banking Units, and other offshore sources for foreign ex- change requirements of export and nonexport proj- ects. Except for short-term foreign currency loans from FCDUs under item (2) above, all short-term loans require prior approval from the Central Bank through the MEDD. In general, short-term credits are allowed to carry rates that reflect prevailing con- ditions in the international capital markets, except for borrowings of the public sector (which are con- sidered guaranteed obligations) under the RTF, which may carry a maximum of 3/4 of 1 percent over LIBOR pursuant to relevant provisions of the RTF agreement, as well as borrowings covered by item (3) above, which allow a 3/4 of 1 percent maximum spread. Emigrants may initially transfer up to $5,000 without prior central bank approval. They may withdraw their remaining liquid assets in five equal annual installments, starting one year after the ini- tial transfer.20 Outward investment by resident persons, firms, or corporations requires the prior approval of the Central Bank through the Foreign Exchange Opera- tions and Investments Department.21 Except as oth- erwise specifically authorized, resident persons, firms, or corporations may not enter into any con- tract or transaction that may involve settlement in 20Since January 3, 1992, emigrants have been authorized to transfer initially up to $50,000 or 50 percent of total capital assets, whichever is larger, and the balance has been allowed to be remitted in two equal annual installments beginning one year af ter the initial remittance is made. 21 Since January 3, 1992, prior central bank approval has been required only when the outward investment is funded by foreign exchange purchased from AABs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 392 PHILIPPINES foreign exchange or assets expressed in foreign cur- rencies. This restriction also applies to contracts or transactions involving assets within the Philippines that belong to a nonresident person, firm, or corpor- ation, and to their exportation or importation. De- tailed regulations concerning transactions in se- curities between residents and nonresidents are in effect. Nineteen foreign banks have been authorized to operate offshore banking units in the Philippines. These units may engage in a wide range of foreign currency transactions with nonresidents and with other off shore units. Offshore banking units may open and maintain deposit accounts in pesos with domestic agent banks exclusively to meet admin- istrative and other operating expenses and to pay to designated local beneficiaries of nonresident Fil- ipinos the equivalent of foreign exchange remit- tances channeled through the offshore banking units' correspondent banks abroad. Offshore bank- ing units may also sell inward remittances of foreign exchange to the Central Bank. The Omnibus Investments Code of 1987 (E.O. No. 226) guarantees all investors in enterprises reg- istered with the Central Bank the right to repatriate their investments and to remit earnings thereon as well as sums needed to meet payments of principal and interest on foreign loans; they are also guaran- teed freedom from expropriation and requisition. Different arrangements exist for "pioneer invest- ments'7 and "preferred investments"; the former are granted certain incentives over and above those given to preferred investments. Foreign nationals are allowed full ownership of export and domestic market enterprises except those on three negative lists. List A restricts foreign investments as provided for in the constitution; List B restricts foreign investments in defense- related activities and in activities detrimental to public morals and health; and List C includes sec- tors adequately served by Philippine interests. Un- der the Omnibus Investments Code, foreign invest- ments in new enterprises not registered under Book I (Investment with Incentives) must obtain prior authority from the BOI. Authority will be granted unless the proposed investment (1) would conflict with existing constitutional provisions and laws reg- ulating the degree of required ownership by Philip- pine nationals in the enterprise; (2) would pose a clear and present danger of promoting monopolies or combinations in restraint of trade; (3) would be made in an enterprise engaged in an area being adequately exploited by Philippine nationals; (4) would conflict or be inconsistent with the Invest- ment Priorities Plan in force at the time the invest- ment is proposed; or (5) would not contribute to the sound and balanced development of the national economy on a self-sustaining basis. Investments in the form of foreign exchange or other assets actually transferred to the Philippines must also be regis- tered with the Central Bank. The BOI assesses and appraises the value of such assets other than those in foreign exchange.22 Gold The Central Bank purchases the entire output of the ten domestic primary gold producers, who are required to sell their production to the Central Bank.23 The Central Bank also purchases the gold recovered and offered for sale by small-scale pro- ducers or panners and silver ore by-products from copper-smelting operations of the Philippines As- sociated Smelting and Refining Corporation. Small gold panners are exempt from the mandatory sale of gold to the Central Bank.24 Producers are paid in Philippine pesos on the basis of the latest London fixing price and the prevailing Philippine peso- U.S. dollar exchange rate. The gold so acquired is deemed to be part of official international reserves. Gold in any form other than jewelry may be im- ported only for industrial and artistic purposes, and any person desiring to import gold must secure a license from the appropriate department of the Central Bank. Various denominations of gold coins have been issued by the Central Bank of the Philippines as follows: a 1-Peso Paul VI coin (1970); a 1,000 Piso Ang Bagong Lipunan coin (1975); a 1,500 Piso IMF- IBRD coin (1976); the 1,500 Piso Ang Bagong Lipunan coins (1977 and 1978); a 5,000 Piso Ang Bagong Lipunan coin (1977); a 2,500 Piso Douglas MacArthur centenary coin (1980); a 1,500 Piso Pope John Paul II coin (1980 and 1981); a 1,500 Piso Bataan-corregidor coin (1982); and 2,500 Piso Aquino-Reagan coin (1986). Transactions in legal tender gold coins are governed by the provisions of Central Bank Circular No. 960 (Sections 175 and 176), dated October 21,1983. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on 22Since January 3, 1992, assets considered as foreign invest- ments have been assessed and appraised by the Central Bank. 23 Since January 3, 1992, all gold produced by small-scale miners has been required to be sold to the Central Bank (Circular No. 1318). 24 Since February 7,1992, producers of primary gold and locally smelted secondary gold have been allowed to export their output directly. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 393 behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Exports of gold and/or gold-bearing mate- rials, including jewelry, in any shape, form, or quantity require a prior written authorization from the Central Bank. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement January 28. The margins for spot buying and sell- ing rates for commercial reference transactions of a maximum of 1 percent above and 2 percent below the official reference rate were eliminated. Limits were placed on the foreign exchange position of commercial banks. In general, banks were required to maintain a balanced position, with the excess of assets over liabilities ("overbought" position) being limited to the average of banks' negotiated letters of credit for the immediately preceding three months. February 22. The allowable overbought position was increased. Banks' foreign assets were allowed to exceed liabilities by as much as their average monthly payments for merchandise imports and invisibles. Cumulative net overbought (oversold) positions must be reported daily and settled weekly. March 4. Forward purchases without any corre- sponding foreign exchange obligation would be ex- cluded from consideration as part of a bank's foreign exchange assets; cash letter of credit collaterized with confirming banks would be included under foreign exchange liabilities. April 20. Banks' oversold position was limited to $500,000. October 17. Additional guidelines covering peso- blocking requirements on foreign loans subject to Paris Club Rescheduling were issued. Imports and Import Payments January 22. A temporary additional levy of 9 per- cent was introduced on virtually all imported goods. Exceptions were allowed only for imports exempted from all duties under international agree- ments and goods imported for the Export Process- ing Zones or bonded manufacturing warehouses. March 18. Subject to specific regulations on cer- tain commodities, qualified importers were allowed to import commodities inclusive of non-EP items provided that the same shall be for the firms' exclu- sive end-use in relation to their manufacture of products for export. March 19. Requirements for prior approval by con- cerned government agencies were lifted for 33 items, including insulating paper, photographs, tape recorders, video table recorders, and certain live animals. July 20. Executive Order No. 470 modified the nomenclature and rates of import duty on most imported articles. A four-tier tariff structure was established, as follows: (1) 3 percent for goods pre- viously exempted from tariff or subject to a duty of 5 percent; (2) 10 percent for raw materials and capi- tal equipment for which there are no locally pro- duced substitutes; (3) 30 percent for finished goods; and (4) 50 percent for certain luxury goods, with rates to be lowered to the standard levels over four to five years. Other exceptions to these basic rates were also included to address the needs of specific industries. August 15. The additional import levy was re- duced to 5 percent ad valorem, except for petroleum-related imports, on which a 9 percent additional duty would continue to apply. August 23. Special additional duties were im- posed on petroleum-related imports at the rates of P 0.95 a liter ( 151.05 a barrel) on crude oil and P 1.00 a liter on oil products. November 1. The 5 percent additional import duty was abolished for capital equipment and spare parts imported by firms whose projects were registered with the BOI on or before January 2, 1991. Exports and Export Proceeds July 2. Exporters were allowed to retain 2 percent of export receipts from each shipment in a special foreign currency deposit account. Certain restric- tions were imposed on the use of these funds. August 28. Exporters were allowed to submit to the AAB the shipping documents covering export shipments with foreign exchange payments within ten banking days (instead of seven days) after com- pletion of loading. October 15. Foreign exchange proceeds from com- modity exports were required to be inwardly remit- ted within 90 days of the date of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles July 29. Tourists and nonresident visitors were allowed to take out from the Philippines the full amount of foreign exchange they brought in. Amounts in excess of $10,000, however, must be declared in writing at the time of entry. Capital June 13. A new fore ign investment law was pro- mu lga ted. The new law expanded the number of sectors open to fu ll foreign ownership, stream- lined the investment approval process, and de- f ined more clearly restrictions on foreign invest- men ts . Foreign f i rms would be allowed to invest in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 394 PHILIPPINES all sectors, except for those on three negative lists: List A, which res tr ic ts fo re ign inves tment as pro- vided for in the constitution and nationalization laws; List B, which restricts fore ign inves tmen ts in de fense - re la ted activities, in activities detrimen- tal to public morals and hea l th, and in small busi- nesses; and List C, which includes sectors that are adequa te ly served by Ph i l ipp ine in teres ts. List C is to be suspended for a three-year t rans i to ry period, w i th the exception that fore ign inves tment will be res tr ic ted in certain sectors (such as retail trade, mass media, import and wholesale trade, and insu rance) and for f i rms where fore ign inves- tors are cu r ren t ly involved in jo int ven tu res as licensing a r rangemen ts. December 11. Exporters were allowed to avail themselves of U.S. dollar loans f rom a Foreign Cur- rency Deposit Unit of a local commercial bank to meet their peso or foreign exchange requirements. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement January 30. The regulations governing commercial banks' permissible open foreign exchange positions were promulgated. Banks' long foreign exchange positions may not exceed 25 percent of their unim- paired capital, while their short foreign exchange positions may not exceed 15 percent of such capital. Payments for Invisibles January 3. The revised Manual of Rules and Reg- ulations governing nontrade foreign exchange transactions was issued. Amounts of foreign ex- change that AABs may sell to residents for certain purposes (travel allowances, educational expenses, medical expenses, support of dependents, and transfer of emigrants' assets) without prior central bank approval were increased substantially. Exports and Export Proceeds January 3. The retention ratio for exporters was raised to 40 percent. March 9. The requirement to file report of foreign sales by exporters was abolished. April 1. Exporters were allowed to use freely funds deposited in their special foreign currency deposit accounts. Proceeds from Invisibles January 3. The mandatory surrender requirement was eliminated for most service earnings, including remittances from overseas workers; surrender re- quirements were retained for 15 groups of services, including insurance, hotels, airlines, construction contracts, communications, and bunkering. April 22. Service exporters were allowed to avail themselves of FCDU loans from a U.S. dollar-based credit facility from the FCDU of a local commercial bank without obtaining prior approval from the Central Bank. April 28. The retention privilege of commodity exporters was extended to service exporters. Capital January 3. Full and immediate repatriation priv- ileges for all types of investments were allowed to be serviced directly by AABs without obtaining prior approval from the Central Bank. April 28. Exporters of services were allowed to avail themselves of FCDU loans up to 70 percent of their expected foreign exchange receipts due within 360 days from the loan grant. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Poland is the Zloty (100 groszy = 1 zloty). Before January 1,1990, the exchange rate of the zloty against the currencies of countries except the members of the former CMEA,1 Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea was deter- mined on the basis of a weighted basket of currencies. Following a depreciation of 31.6 percent on January 1, 1990, the zloty was pegged to the U.S. dollar at the rate of Zl 9,500 per US$1 through May 16, 1991. On May 17, 1991, the zloty was depreciated by 14.4 per- cent to Zl 11,100 per US$1, and pegged to a basket of five currencies.2 Since October 14, 1991, a crawling peg policy has been followed, under which the zloty is depreciated by Zl 9 a day against the basket, subject to a maximum of 1.8 percent a month.3 The exchange rates between the zloty and other convertible curren- cies are determined on the basis of the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned on international markets. The National Bank of Poland (NBP) quotes exchange rates for the European Cur- rency Unit (ECU), the SDR, and the currencies of 28 countries4 considered market economies; although it does not deal in the bank notes and coins of a limited number of the currencies,5 it stands ready to effect transactions in all of them. Buying and selling rates are set within margins of 0.5 percent around the middle rate, except for notes and coins, for which the margins are set at 2 percent.6 Rates for currencies aThe members of the CMEA were Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslo- vakia, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the former U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. 2The basket consists of (figures in parentheses represent weights): U.S. dollar (45 percent); deutsche mark (35 percent); pound sterling (10 percent); French franc (5 percent); and Swiss franc (5 percent). 3On February 26, 1992, the zloty was depreciated against the basket, and the midpoint rate of the zloty to U.S. dollar following this ad jus tment was Zl 13,238. 4Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Ira- nian rials, Irish pounds, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Lebanese pounds, Libyan dinars, Luxembourg francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Portuguese es- cudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U.S. dol- lars, Turkish liras, and Yugoslav dinars. 5Indian rupees, Iranian rials, Irish pounds, Kuwaiti dinars, and Libyan dinars. 6Since January 13,1992, banks in Poland have been given more freedom in determining the exchange rates to be used in foreign exchange transactions between them. Specifically, banks are per- mitted to set buying and selling rates within a margin of 2 per- cent around the middle rate set by the NBP. Banks7 transactions with the NBP now take place at the buy/sell ratio set by the NBP, whereas previously they took place at the NBP middle rate. other than the U.S. dollar are based on the quoted rate for the U.S. dollar and the dollar rates for the relevant currencies in international markets and are set daily. On December 31, 1991, the buying and selling rates for spot transactions in U.S. dollars were Zl 10,738 and Zl 11,176, respectively, per US$1. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of the currencies of market economies. The Council of Banks sets maximum allowable commis- sions and charges on foreign exchange transactions in line with international practices. These levies are paid in zlotys (foreign currency) by domestic (for- eign) customers. The exchange rate on the parallel exchange mar- ket, in which natural persons are allowed to transact freely, is determined by market forces, and may differ from the official rate set by the NBP.7 How- ever, interest rate policy is geared in part to limiting the differential between the two exchange rates, and during 1991, the parallel market exchange rate remained closely in line with the official rate. Until the end of 1990, most of Poland's trade and financial settlements with CMEA member coun- tries were effected in transferable rubles through the International Bank for Economic Cooperation (IBEC). The clearing ruble was used for most settle- ments with Albania and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and for some settlements with Cambodia and the Lao People's Democratic Re- public. On January 31,1991, the buying and selling rates for the zloty against transferable and clearing rubles were Zl 2,090 and Zl 2,110 respectively, per 1 ruble. Since January 1, 1991, almost all trade with former CMEA countries has been conducted at world market prices and settled in convertible cur- rencies; a limited amount of trade under pre- existing contracts continued to be transacted in transferable rubles throughout 1991. The weekly quotation of exchange rates of the zloty against the currencies of other CMEA member countries, Albania, and the Democratic People's Re- public of Korea for certain noncommercial settle- ments by the NBP discontinued af ter February 5, 1991. 7Foreign exchange bureaus (kantory) must obtain licenses to operate in the parallel exchange market. 395 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 396 POLAND Administration of Control The authority to make basic changes in the Ex- change Regulation Law rests with the Parliament. Implementing regulations are promulgated by the Minister of Finance in the form of general foreign exchange permits or by the President of the NBP in the form of individual permits. General permits are issued for all residents and nonresidents, or for a specified group thereof. Procedures for issuing in- dividual permits are established by the president of the NBP in cooperation with the Minister of Fi- nance. The authority for the enforcement of the foreign exchange regulations rests with the Minister of Finance, who exercises related functions mainly through the president of the NBP. However, deci- sions concerning individual foreign exchange per- mits are subject to appeal to the Supreme Admin- istrative Court. Residents must repatriate foreign exchange within two months of receipt or within two months of returning to Poland. Foreign exchange control is exercised by the Min- ister of Finance and the bodies responsible to him, the NBP, the foreign exchange banks, customs of- fices, the border guard, and post offices. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments to and ^rom countries with which Po- land has multilateral and bilateral payments agree- ments are made in the currencies and in accordance with the procedures set fo r th in those agreements.8 If there are no specific agreements, or if trade takes place outside the scope of the agreements, settle- ment is made in a convertible currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident Accounts Polish residents (natural and juridical persons) can hold foreign exchange in the form of currency, stocks, bonds, etc. Three types of foreign currency accounts are available: (1) convertible currency ac- counts "A"; (2) foreign exchange accounts for for- eign settlements, "ROD"; and (3) Bank PKO, S.A., deposit certificates. 8A11 bilateral payments agreements maintained by Poland were effectively terminated by December 31, 1990, with all new contracts being concluded in convertible currencies. However, in some cases (Brazil and Nepal), new agreements specifying that trade would take place in convertible currencies had not yet been signed. Also, under the agreements with Bangladesh, China, Egypt, India, and the Islamic Republic of Iran, outstanding bal- ances are still being settled under the bilateral agreement. (1) Accounts "A" are held by natural persons and can be freely credited with convertible currency brought in or transferred from abroad and/or de- posited without the requirement of a declaration of the sources of the funds. Account holders may use the funds freely to effect transfers abroad, to buy goods and services, to finance tourist travel abroad by them or other persons, and to effect gifts to family members or other persons. The funds on deposit cannot be used to effect settlements be- tween individuals, but funds withdrawn in foreign currency can be resold to the foreign exchange bu- reau. Withdrawals in zlotys, converted at the pre- vailing exchange rate, are freely permitted. Ac- counts maintained in French francs, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars in call de- posits earn interest at the annual rate of 4 percent. Accounts maintained in these currencies in one-, two- and three-year term deposits earn an annual interest of 8 percent, 8.5 percent, and 9 percent, respectively, and accounts maintained in Swiss francs with similar maturities earn an annual inter- est of 6.5 percent, 7 percent, and 7.5 percent, respectively. (2) Foreign Exchange Accounts for Foreign Settle- ments, "ROD," are held by juridical persons. Before January 1, 1990, ROD accounts could be credited with foreign exchange retained against exports in convertible currencies. Since January 1, 1990, al- though all foreign exchange receipts from exports, in principle, must be surrendered, juridical persons have been allowed to retain foreign exchange ac- cumulated in ROD accounts before that date. The funds, however, cannot be used for settlement be- tween enterprises. Interest is paid in foreign ex- change at the annual rates of 6 percent, 6 percent, and 10 percent, respectively, on one-, two-, and five-year deposits. (3) Bank PKO, S.A. Deposit Certificates are issued by the Bank PKO, S.A., in convertible currencies. The sources of funds need not be declared. Interest is paid on balances in these accounts. The deposit certificates are issued in U.S. dollars in denomina- tions of $100 and $500.9 Resident individuals and enterprises may hold foreign exchange accounts abroad with the express permission of the NBP. Such permission is granted only on "proof of necessity/' 9These deposit certificates are distinct from Bank PKO cou- pons, which, until the end of December 1990, could be used to buy "internal exports" in hard currency (PEWEX) stores. Since January 1, 1991, all transactions at these stores have been con- ducted in domestic currency, and PKO coupons can no longer be used. Bank PKO, S.A., repurchases outstanding coupons at a 10 percent discount. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND 397 Nonresident Accounts Nonresident juridical and natural persons are free to keep both convertible currency and zloty accounts. (1) Nonresidents may maintain convertible cur- rency accounts (C accounts) at the NBP, the Bank Handlowy, the Bank PKO, S.A., or one of the com- mercial banks. These accounts can be credited with funds brought in or transferred to Poland, with transfers from other C accounts, and with convert- ible currency amounts legally acquired in Poland. Deposits are freely transferable abroad, and may be used to make gifts to residents. The funds earn interest in foreign currency. Interest rates on C ac- counts of natural persons are fixed by banks and are paid at an annual rate in the range of 3 percent to 5 percent for demand deposits, and in the range of 7 percent to 11 percent for term deposits (depend- ing on the account currency, the time limit, and the rates on international money markets). Interest rates on C accounts of juridical persons are fixed at the same rates, except demand deposits, which do not earn interest. (2) Nonresidents are free to open and hold zloty accounts. Depositors must declare the source of the zlotys when making deposits into such accounts. This declaration requirement aims to ensure that payments into the accounts result from contracts or other operations that comply with the provisions of the foreign exchange law. Apart from zlotys legally earned in Poland, these accounts may also be cred- ited with foreign exchange converted into zlotys at the official exchange rate. Permits for conversion back into foreign exchange or for foreign exchange transfers abroad are normally granted. These ac- counts do not pay interest; however, nonresidents may also deposit their earnings on savings bank books, on which interest is paid. Deposits on zloty accounts may be transferred to other nonresidents or residents. Such transfers require a foreign ex- change permit, except for gifts to residents. Permits for transfers to nonresidents are granted only for transfers to family members. Permits for transfers to residents are granted without any restriction. Imports and Exports Licenses are not required for imports from the convertible currency area, with the exception of im- ports of radioactive materials and military equip- ment, and temporary imports of capital goods and transport equipment for leasing. Licenses are re- quired for imports carried out within the framework of international agreements that stipulate bilateral settlements. The Customs Law allows for the intro- duction of import quotas, but none was in place during 1991. Export quotas cover only (1) items sub- ject to import restrictions by other countries; and (2) coal, steel scrap, live animals, pork, and sugar. Export licenses are required for (1) goods subject to export quotas; (2) exports carried out within the framework of international agreements that stipu- late bilateral settlements; (3) temporary exports of capital goods and transport equipment for leasing; and (4) 16 items (mainly raw materials, intermediate products, and some agricultural products) to help maintain balance in the domestic market. Nonresi- dents in Poland (persons domiciled abroad but not foreign corporate bodies operating in Poland) are required, temporarily, to apply for export permits. All commercial imports, regardless of country of origin or provenance, are subject to an ad valorem import tariff based on the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System (HCDCS). For most-favored-nation (MFN) countries, the average tariff rate has been about 4 percent since June 1990. On August 1,1991, a new tariff schedule was intro- duced, with nine basic rates; 0 percent for equip- ment for the disabled; 5 percent for raw materials; 10-15 percent for semimanufactured goods, ma- chinery, and equipment; 20 percent for industrial consumer goods; 25-35 percent for agricultural products and textiles; and 45 percent for alcohol, tobacco products, and luxury articles. The average rate under the new schedule has risen to 14.2 per- cent. For imports originating in countries not enjoy- ing MFN status, the rates of duty are twice as high, except for cases in which the MFN rate is zero, where a 25 percent rate is imposed. Imports from developing countries are granted preferential treat- ment under the General System of Preferences. Also, imports from 42 developing countries, tropi- cal products from chapters 6 to 24 of the HCDCS, and many goods from chapters 32 and 94 of the HCDCS that are of interest to developing countries enter the country duty free. For the remaining goods imported from developing countries, duties are reduced to 30 percent of the MFN rate. There are some special regulations pertaining to border trade with the former U.S.S.R. Imports are subject to stamp duties and turnover taxes at rates similar to those on domestic goods. Exports, with the exception of coal, are free from turnover taxes. Duties and turnover taxes on im- ports for export production are refunded. Exporters must declare all foreign currency re- ceipts from exports, repatriate them within two months of receipt, and surrender them in part to the Polish foreign exchange banks within 14 days of receiving notice that foreign exchange has been de- posited in their accounts in Poland. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 398 POLAND Nonresidents may take out of Poland, free of customs duty, souvenirs with a value of up to a specified amount in local currency. However, they may export goods bought in hard currency stores up to the value of foreign currencies declared at the point of first entry and adjusted for reasonable liv- ing expenses. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisible expenses arising from mer- chandise transactions, including insurance and transportation costs, are permitted freely if related to trade transactions. All other invisible transactions are carried out under either a general or an individ- ual permit. Foreign exchange for such payments is made available automatically once the transaction has been authorized. In principle, permission for tourist travel to coun- tries other than members of the former CMEA, Al- bania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea is granted only if means of support abroad is assured. This requirement can be met in one of the following ways: (1) living expenses while abroad are covered by nonresidents; (2) living expenses while abroad are covered from the resident's own funds, held in an A account or acquired in the free market; or (3) travel is with an authorized tourist group. Travelers may take out of Poland the equivalent of $2,000 in convertible currencies without official per- mission. Documentary proof of origin is necessary for amounts exceeding this limit. For official and business travel, separate al- lowances are established by the Ministry of Finance to reflect reasonable costs. Business travelers may take out up to the equivalent of $10,000 from the foreign currency accounts maintained by the enter- prises that employ them for the purchase of goods and services associated with their business activity or travel expenses. Polish nationals departing Poland are permitted to take abroad convertible foreign currencies, checks, and traveler's checks in amounts of up to $2,000, or the equivalent, purchased from foreign exchange banks for the purpose of paying outstand- ing obligations to foreign nationals resulting from the purchase of movable assets and proprietary in- terests, or from transportation freight forwarding, and insurance services. When leaving Poland, tour- ists from convertible currency area countries can reconvert zlotys up to the equivalent they brought into Poland, provided that the amount is not more than that originally converted into zlotys less the required conversion amounts. Residents must re- patriate foreign exchange within two months of re- ceipt or within two months of returning to Poland. Residents may, without approval, bring into or take out of the country domestic bank notes and coins in an amount not exceeding Zl 500,000 a person. For- eign visitors must declare foreign exchange they bring into the country in order to take out the un- spent amount. Nonresidents from the former CMEA countries, Albania, and the Democratic Peo- ple's Republic of Korea may bring into or take out of the country zlotys up to the amount certified by their domestic banks. On condition of reciprocity, residents may remit pensions and annuities in convertible foreign ex- change at the official exchange rate to nonresidents that are entitled to such payments on the basis of a ruling from the social security administration. Busi- ness entities may use their ROD accounts to pay wages and salaries to nonresident employees. Also, businesses may use their ROD accounts or foreign exchange purchased from foreign exchange banks to pay outstanding obligations chargeable to (1) procurement costs, including costs of participa- tion in exhibitions and fairs, and advertising costs; (2) fees for agent representational services; (3) costs of repairing and overhauling imported machinery and equipment; and (4) costs associated with the protection of intellectual property. Similarly, indi- viduals may use their A accounts for foreign ex- change purchased from foreign exchange banks to pay for (1) membership in organizations abroad; (2) costs of court or arbitration proceedings up to the equivalent of $20,000 a case; (3) costs of obtaining legal counsel and trial representation up to $50,000 or the equivalent in a given case; and (4) taxes, customs duties, or administrative fees payable abroad. Under certain circumstances, foreign ex- change may be made available for study abroad. Students' living expenses and tuition fees abroad must be covered by scholarships or financial sup- port from nonresident relatives. Transfers abroad by nonresident workers in Po- land, other than in the context of employment in joint ventures, are determined on the basis of agree- ments between domestic and foreign institutions or enterprises. Nonresident employees of joint ven- tures may transfer abroad up to 100 percent of their income. On condition of reciprocity and subject to an an- nual limit of Zl 6 million a person, residents are permitted to make certain remittances to former CMEA countries, Albania, and the Democratic Peo- ple's Republic of Korea. Such remittances include wages and salaries paid to employees of diplomatic, commercial, and other official missions of these countries, or paid on the basis of international agreements or labor contracts, stipends, per diems, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND 399 or other payments connected with employment or education in Poland, honorariums, damages, pen- sions, annuities, insurance premiums, legacies, ali- mony up to Zl 100,000 a month, and family al- lowances up to Zl 40,000 a month. Profits on direct investment by nonresidents, other than those from joint ventures, can be transferred abroad up to a maximum annual amount of 10 percent of invested capital. If the investment yields a convertible cur- rency export-to-import surplus in any fiscal year, up to 50 percent of the surplus can be transferred abroad, provided that the transfer does not exceed 50 percent of net profits after taxes. The Minister of Finance may permit a transfer in excess of 50 per- cent of the surplus. On liquidation, the investor may transfer abroad the proceeds from the sale of the remaining assets sold in foreign currency. For joint ventures incorporated under the 1988 Law on Eco- nomic Activity with Participation of Foreign Parties, there are no limits on the transfer abroad by non- residents of profits accruing from export proceeds net of import costs. Capital Parliament annually sets an upper limit on Po- land's permissible external indebtedness. Within this limit, foreign borrowing takes place on the basis of intergovernmental agreements and in various forms of bank and commercial credits. Under the provisions of the banking law, the NBP, Bank Hand- lowy, Bank PKO, S. A., and the Export Development Bank are empowered to borrow abroad, on short or long term, and to extend foreign credits. The Minis- ter of Finance sets limits on the foreign borrowing of the banks, and the contracting of foreign loans is subject to approval. Negotiable export documents are discountable by foreign banks. With a permit, exports of goods (other than fuels and raw materials) and services may be financed with a credit up to the equivalent of $500,000, with repayment terms of up to 360 days. Imports with a value of up to the equivalent of $500,000 may also be financed with a credit, with repayment terms of up to three years with a permit. A new foreign investment law (Law on Com- panies with Foreign Participation) came into effect on July 4, 1991, replacing the old Law on Economic Activity with Participation of Foreign Parties, which had governed all new foreign direct investments since December 23, 1988. Under the 1991 law, new businesses will only need to be registered with local courts, except for investments in the area of sea- ports, airports, real estate transactions, defense, le- gal services, and wholesale trade in imported prod- ucts, which will continue to require permits. While the previous three-year tax holiday for new busi- nesses was abolished, the taxation system was sim- plified, and capital goods imports for new joint ventures are exempt from customs duties. Investors in certain priority sectors will also be eligible for tax concessions, as will investments exceeding ECU 2 million a year. The 10 percent ceiling on purchases in shares of privatization issues was abolished, and a permit is not required unless such shares relate to the above-mentioned sectors. All limits on the trans- fer of profits were lifted, and any invested capital may be repatriated freely once outstanding obliga- tions to creditors are met. The 1991 law does not stipulate that any minimum capital must be in- vested by foreign nationals in Poland, thus eliminat- ing the requirement of $50,000. Nevertheless, the minimum capital requirement set for th in the Policy Commercial Code for a limited liability company and a joint-stock company is still in effect. Foreign investment by residents, either to estab- lish subsidiaries or affiliates or to acquire an interest in a foreign enterprise, requires a foreign exchange permit. All categories of capital transfers, including gifts, by resident natural persons require a foreign ex- change permit. However, for certain categories, such as inheritances, transfers are authorized on the basis of agreements and reciprocity with other countries. Emigrants to other countries must obtain an individual permit from the NBP to take out their convertible currency deposits with domestic banks. Other financial assets may be deposited in a non- resident zloty account. Except in the form of an inheritance, nonresi- dents may acquire real estate or other immovable property in Poland only with permission from the Ministry of Interior. Gold Resident individuals may hold gold in any form. Trading in gold, other than jewelry, is subject to permission from the foreign exchange authorities. Polish and foreign nationals may take abroad gold coins that bear value in foreign exchange. They may also bring into Poland coins made from precious metals that are legal tender in Poland. Only one enterprise, Jubiler, has general permission to buy and sell in gold in any form. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement May 17. The exchange rate of the zloty was changed from Zl 9,500 per US$1 to Zl 11,100 per ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 400 POLAND US$1, and the zloty was pegged to a basket consis- ting of five currencies (deu tsche ma rk, French f r an c, pound sterling, Swiss f ranc, and U .S. dol- lar). October 14. The authorities announced that a crawling peg policy would be followed, with the exchange rate of the zloty to be depreciated by Zl 9 a business day against the basket, up to a maximum of 1.8 percent a month. Prescription of Currency January 1. The bilateral payments agreement with the former U.S.S.R. was discontinued. Imports and Exports August 1. A new tariff schedule with nine basic rates ranging from zero to 45 percent was adopted. The average MFN rate rose to about 14 percent from about 4 percent. Capital July 4. A new foreign investment law was adopted, which simplified administrative pro- cedures for the establishment and taxation of new joint ventures, eliminated general tax holidays, and removed all restrictions on transfers of profits and repatriation of capital. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Portugal is the Portuguese Es- cudo. With effect from April 6, 1992, Portugal par- ticipates with Belgium, Denmark, France, Ger- many, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Neth- erlands, Spain, and the United Kingdom in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism (ERM) of the European Monetary System (EMS). In accor- dance with this agreement, Portugal maintains the spot exchange rates between the Portuguese escudo and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 2.25 percent (in the case of the pound sterling and the Spanish peseta, 6 percent) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Banco de Portugal (central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the curren- cies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On April 6, 1992, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates per: Portuguese Escudos Upper limit Lower limit 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 deutsche mark 100 French francs 1 Irish pound 1,000 Italian lire 100 Netherlands guilders 1 pound sterling 100 Spanish pesetas 447.560 2,420.10 9,233.60 2,752.40 247.299 123.380 8,190.00 272.320 142.020 396.980 2,146.60 8,190.00 2,441.30 219.350 109.403 7,267.00 7,267.00 125.970 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper func- tioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the inter- vention currencies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. Official exchange rates for the U.S. dollar and other currencies1 are based on information on the Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, European Currency Units (ECUs), Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Italian lire, Irish pounds, Japanese yen, Macao patacas, Nether- lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, South Afri- can rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. The Macao patacas is pegged to the Hong Kong dollar at a parity rate of P 1.03 per HK$ 1. 401 exchange rate of the Portuguese escudo in terms of the deutsche mark provided by the banking system and are announced daily by the Banco de Portugal. These rates are a reference for the banks' bid and offer rates, which are freely set. A tax of 0.9 percent on all sales of foreign exchange is collected by the commercial and investment banks. On Decem- ber 31,1991, the official basic rate for the U.S. dollar was Esc 134.184 per US$1. Banks may deal in foreign exchange with the Banco de Portugal, among themselves, with other domestic nonbank economic agents, and with non- residents. Spot or forward foreign exchange opera- tions are carried out at freely negotiated exchange rates. There are no restrictions on foreign exchange dealings among banks in Portugal and among non- residents, except for forward purchases from or sales to nonresidents of escudos that are not directly associated with Portuguese exports of goods and services or for authorized capital transfers. There are no restrictions on foreign exchange deals in the domestic interbank market. Foreign exchange transactions of banks with the Banco de Portugal are, in principle, limited to the spot market. The degree of foreign exchange risks that banks are au- thorized to take must fall within the limits estab- lished by the Banco de Portugal for their foreign exchange positions (calculated as the sum of the positions against escudos in each foreign currency). Portugal formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from September 12, 1988. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Banco de Portugal on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, with the assistance of the commercial and invest- ment banks authorized for this purpose. Foreign trade policy is implemented by the Minis- try of Commerce and Tourism. The Direcgao-Geral do Comercio Externo in this Ministry is responsible for administering trade controls and for issuing im- port and export licenses, declarations, and certificates. Prescription of Currency Transactions with Turkey are settled on a monthly basis through a clearing account maintained in U.S. dollars. Export transactions with other coun- tries may be settled from a nonresident account ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 402 PORTUGAL with a resident bank in the quoted currencies (see footnote 1). Payments to nonresidents may be made by crediting escudos to a nonresident account. The Portuguese escudo is accepted as the currency of settlement for exports of goods, services, and capi- tal transfers to Portugal. of external means of payment by emigrants, and with transfers from other accounts in foreign cur- rency of the same owner and with interest due. These accounts may be debited without restriction. Interest income from all types of emigrants' de- posits is taxed at the rate of 7.5 percent a year. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Accounts in Escudos. The opening of nonresident accounts in escudos is not restricted. They must be non-interest-bearing demand ac- counts, and exceptions must be specifically autho- rized by the Banco de Portugal. Demand deposits of nonresidents are subject to a non-interest-bearing compulsory deposit requirement, which is 90 per- cent for accounts held by foreign branches, affiliates or parent undertakings of resident banks and 40 percent for all others. Required balances must be maintained with the Banco de Portugal. Nonresident accounts in escudos may be freely credited and debited but must not be overdrawn. Nonresident Accounts in Foreign Currency. The opening and transactions of nonresident accounts in foreign currency—demand accounts and time accounts —are not restricted. Interest rates are freely negotiable. Accounts may be denominated in any foreign currency acceptable to the banks. Emigrants' Accounts. Portuguese emigrants may open three types of deposit accounts: emigrants' savings accounts (time accounts in escudos); joint accounts with residents (deposit or time accounts in escudos); and time deposit accounts in foreign currency. Emigrants' savings accounts may be credited with the equivalent amount in escudos of remittances from abroad received through the banking system or in the form of an international postal order, with the equivalent in escudos of external means of pay- ment sold to credit institutions by emigrants, with transfers from other accounts of the same owner (emigrants' savings accounts or accounts in foreign currency), and with interest due on such deposits. These accounts may be debited without restriction. Joint accounts with residents are similar to residents' deposit accounts and can be in the form of either demand or time deposits. These accounts may be credited with funds from abroad (similar to credit- ing emigrants' savings deposits) or with funds from domestic sources. These accounts may be debited without restriction, except for transfers to other types of emigrants' accounts or abroad. Transfers abroad are subject to the regulations that apply to current transfers. Time deposit accounts in foreign currencies may be credited with remittances from abroad, with sales Resident Accounts in Foreign Currency The opening abroad of resident accounts in foreign currency requires special authorization from the Banco de Portugal unless the holder is a bank. De- mand accounts or time accounts may be maintained with domestic banks in any currency and at freely negotiated interest rates without restriction. These accounts may not, without prior authorization from the Banco de Portugal, be credited or debited for the settlement of transactions between residents. Imports and Import Payments For products under EC surveillance, import dec- larations, when required, are issued for statistical surveillance purposes and are granted automat- ically in four to five days. Imports of certain prod- ucts are subject to an import license and are allowed under specific conditions or prohibited for reasons of health, public order, and the prevention of com- mercial f raud. Imports subject to quantitative re- strictions require an import license. For imports free of quantitative restriction, the importer is required to present the import contract or the invoice to obtain the foreign exchange neces- sary to settle the contract. For agricultural products covered by a common market organization, the EC may require an import certificate. The validity of the import declaration is 6 months for customs clear- ance purposes, and the settlement period is 12 months. Payments af ter one year of customs clear- ance, and prepayments exceeding three months or exceeding 35 percent of the import value of goods or exceeding Esc 50 million require prior verification by the Banco de Portugal. In accordance with the Act of Accession of Portugal to the EC, imports of some agricultural products are subject to temporary restrictions when originating in EC and third countries. A few industrial products are subject to restrictions only when they originate in third countries. A more extensive restricted list, which applies to Japan, includes manufactured raw materials, some textile fibers, and a small number of finished products, including motorcycles. Payments for Invisibles Payments to foreign countries for current invis- ibles must be made through credit institutions au- thorized to operate in foreign exchange and are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL 403 generally free of restrictions, although prior ver- ification by the Banco de Portugal is required for private unrequited transfers exceeding Esc 10 mil- lion and for other types of transfers exceeding Esc 100 million. For tourism and other private travel, authorized credit institutions are allowed to sell foreign cur- rency without restriction. However, whenever re- quested by the customs authorities, travelers resid- ing in Portugal must produce documents proving acquisition of foreign currency through a normal banking channel for amounts exceeding the equiv- alent of Esc 1 billion. Tourists may take out of the country Esc 100,000 in domestic currency for each trip.2 The exportation of larger amounts of domestic currency requires prior authorization from the Banco de Portugal. Under the provisions of the For- eign Investment Code, transfers abroad of profits and dividends and the repatriation of proceeds of liquidation of direct foreign investment in Portugal are free of restrictions. Prior verification by the Banco de Portugal, however, is required in the case of remittances of dividends and profits exceeding the equivalent of Esc 100 million. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are free of restrictions. Exporters are required to sell to an authorized bank the entire amount of proceeds exceeding Esc 1 billion within 15 days unless proceeds are credited to a foreign exchange account. Settlement periods of merchandise exports exceeding 12 months re- quire prior verification by the Banco de Portugal. Prepayments exceeding three months or exceeding 35 percent of the export value of goods or exceeding Esc 50 million also require prior verification by the Banco de Portugal. Payment of commission ex- penses abroad and freight, insurance, or other charges is subject to the regulations that govern payments for invisibles. Proceeds from Invisibles In most cases, Portuguese residents may freely receive payments in escudos and in foreign cur- rency for invisibles from residents of countries with which Portugal does not have special clearing ar- rangements. For private unrequited transfers ex- ceeding Esc 10 million and for other types of trans- fers exceeding Esc 100 million, prior verification by the Banco de Portugal is required. Receipts from 2The use of credit cards abroad has been liberalized. Also, payments of travel and accommodation expenses abroad for tourism purposes have been liberalized if paid through a Por- tuguese travel agency. invisibles must be surrendered unless they are cred- ited to a foreign exchange account. Authorized banks are not permitted to receive or to pay domes- tic or foreign bank notes or coins for settlement of external transactions exceeding Esc 1 million with- out prior approval from the Banco de Portugal. Capital Foreign exchange regulations do not distinguish between capital transactions with residents of EC member countries and residents of non-EC member countries, except for foreign direct investments in Portugal. Foreign direct investments in Portugal are permitted in all sectors except those that, under the general law, are closed to private enterprise corpora- tions. Applications for new foreign investment proj- ects are subject only to prior declaration to the Por- tuguese Foreign Trade Institute (ICEP) and are considered approved if the ICEP does not reply within 60 days. However, foreign direct investment in the form of long-term loans must be verified in advance by the Banco de Portugal. All restrictions on foreign direct investments by residents of EC countries were eliminated at the end of 1990. The transfer of the proceeds of liquidation of foreign direct investment, including capital gains, is free of restrictions. Foreign direct investments in EC countries by Portuguese residents require special authorization until 1993, when they will be free of restrictions; since June 1991, however, investments have been allowed in any foreign country. Portfolio investments by residents in foreign cur- rency securities listed in officially recognized stock exchanges and shares not quoted in stock ex- changes are not restricted. Real estate investments in Portugal have been liberalized since June 1991. The proceeds of their liquidation are freely transferable. Purchases of real estate abroad by Portuguese residents are free of restrictions. Purchases by nonresidents of domestic securities quoted in the stock exchange are not re- stricted. Purchases of unquoted shares have been liberalized since June 1991. However, purchases of indexed-coupon securities in escudos, whenever interest rate adjustments are effected at intervals of less than one year, and of shares in mutual funds specializing in such securities have been tem- porarily subject to prior authorization by the Banco de Portugal since July 1991. There are no restrictions on the contracting of trade credits and personal capital transfers. Other types of capital transactions must have prior authorization from the Banco de Portugal. Financial credits and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 404 PORTUGAL loans from abroad, when authorized, are subject to a non-interest-bearing compulsory reserve require- ment of 40 percent; the required balance must be maintained at the Banco de Portugal. Portugal has liberalized many reservations con- cerning the OECD Code of Liberalization of Capital Movements over the years, and at the end of 1991, the regulations being applied to capital transactions with the OECD countries were virtually identical to those applying to the EC member countries. Gold Residents may hold gold in any form in Portugal. The purchase, sale, importation, exportation, or re- exportation of bullion, coins, and unworked gold, when carried out between Portugal and foreign countries, must be carried out by a bank and autho- rized in advance by the Banco de Portugal. There is a free market for gold in Macao, in which both residents of Macao and nonresidents who do not reside in Portugal may freely trade among them- selves in bars, leaves, and coins. Imports and ex- ports of gold, unless made by or on behalf of the Macao monetary authorities, require licenses issued by the Commissioner for Economy. Changes During 1991 Administration of Control June 14. A new decree law on exchange controls replaced a number of previous laws, making ex- change control legislation more liberal and trans- parent. The principal basic change was that legisla- tion would permit all operations that are not explicitly forbidden, whereas the previous legisla- tion prohibited all operations that were not ex- plicitly permitted. interest-bearing reserve requirement. The deposit requirement ratio was set at 90 percent for accounts held by foreign branches, affiliates, or parent un- dertakings of resident banks and 40 percent for all others. Required balances must be maintained at the Banco de Portugal. July 5. The purchase by nonresidents of indexed- coupon securities in escudos whenever interest rate adjustments are effected at intervals of less than one year or of shares in mutual funds specializing in such securities was subject to prior authorization from the Banco de Portugal. The restriction would remain in effect until December 31, 1991. Resident Accounts in Foreign Currency December 31. The opening of interest-bearing for- eign currency accounts at the domestic banks was liberalized. Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EC-wide basis during 1991, page 557.) Capital June 14. All foreign direct investments and invest- ments in real estate abroad by residents were liber- alized, as was the acquisition of foreign shares not quoted in stock exchange. However, residents must channel such investments through a resident bank by establishing custody accounts. Banks were re- quired to withhold taxes as necessary and to verify payment of all taxes. Changes During 1992 Capital Nonresident Accounts February 27. Demand deposits in escudos of nonresidents were subject to a compulsory non- January 9. The restrictions on purchases by non- residents of indexed-coupon securities, which have been subject to prior authorization from the Banco de Portugal, were extended up to April 30, 1992. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution QATAR (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Qatar is the Qatar Riyal, which is pegged to the SDR at QR 4.7619 per SDR 1. Qatar has established margins of 7.25 percent around this rate, which were exceeded between September 1990 and February 1991, and in December 1991. The Qatar Monetary Agency sets daily market rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, and the pound sterling. On December 31, 1991, the buying and selling rates for the Qatar riyal in terms of the U.S. dollar were QR 3.6385 and QR 3.6415, respec- tively, per US$1. The commercial banks' exchange rates for trans- actions in U.S. dollars are based on the Monetary Agency's buying and selling rates. A spread of QR 0.0087 is applied to exchange transactions with the public. The commercial banks' buying and sell- ing rates for other currencies are based on the Mon- etary Agency's rates for the U.S. dollar and on mar- ket rates for the currency concerned against the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official banking sector. In the commercial banking sector, importers may pur- chase foreign exchange in the forward market. Qatar formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, with effect from June 4, 1973. Administration of Control The Qatar Monetary Agency is the exchange con- trol authority, but there is at present no exchange control legislation. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. No other prescription of currency re- quirements are in force. Nonresident Accounts Imports of alcoholic beverages, firearms, ammuni- tion, and certain drugs are subject to licensing for reasons of health or public policy. Otherwise, im- ports are not restricted. There are no restrictions on payments for permitted imports. Imports of general goods are subject to a customs tariff at the rate of 4.0 percent, which is the minimum rate applied by member countries of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC); imports of steel are subject to a customs tariff at the rate of 20 per- cent and imports of tobacco and tobacco derivatives are subject to a customs tariff at the rate of 50 per- cent. Imports of goods from other member coun- tries of the GCC are not subject to a customs t a r i f f. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Iraq, Israel, and South Africa are pro- hibited. Otherwise, all commodities may be exported freely. No requirements are attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatri- ated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments may not be made to or received from Israel and South Africa. Otherwise, there are no limitations on payments for and proceeds from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or on payments by residents or non- residents, although payments may not be made to or received from Israel and South Africa. Noncitizens may engage in simple crafts as well as in commerce, industry, agriculture, and services jointly with Qatari partners, provided that the latter's share is not less than 51 percent. Noncitizens may also establish com- panies specializing in contracting business with Qatari partners, subject to the above conditions, if it is determined that there is a need to establish such companies or if there is a need for the experience and technology provided by such companies. No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Gold Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited as are imports of pork and its derivatives. The monetary authorities and all other residents and nonresidents (including private persons) may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. For trading 405 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 406 QATAR purposes, the buying and selling of gold and pre- cious metals require an import license and are sub- . L * ^ ^ ,_• • i- T i lect to customs duty. Transactions involving Israel -, <-, .u Ar • U - L^ j and South Africa are prohibited. ^ L Changes During 1991 .,. , , , . , No significant changes occurred in the exchange , L ~ L ° and trade system, tl J ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution° ROMANIA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Romania is the Romanian Leu. The official exchange rate is determined daily at the fixing in the interbank foreign exchange market, which operates under the auspices of the National Bank of Romania (NBR). The NBR and the autho- rized commercial banks participate in the fixing. On December 31,1991, the exchange rate was lei 189 = US$1. The NBR quotes rates for 23 other curren- cies,1 based on the rates for these currencies against the U.S. dollar in the countries concerned, and for the European Currency Unit. Foreign exchange bu- reaus, which can purchase foreign exchange in the form of foreign currency bank notes and traveler's checks from natural persons and sell foreign ex- change in the form of bank notes only to natural persons, have been operating since August 5,1991. The currency used for commercial transactions with the member countries of the former Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA),2 Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, had been the transferable ruble (TR). For nontrade transactions with the CMEA countries, Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, spe- cial exchange rates had been established by multi- lateral or bilateral agreement. Since the beginning of 1991, all commercial and noncommercial transac- tions have been effected in convertible currencies. Although the transferable ruble was abolished, it continues to be used as a unit of account for the purpose of liquidating outstanding balances. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk. Administration of Control All import and export transactions are subject to licensing administered by the Ministry of Trade and Tourism. Licenses are normally issued automat- ically. Foreign currency proceeds from exports must be surrendered to the banking system, and foreign Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Indian rupees, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Luxembourg francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds ster- ling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Turkish liras, and Yugoslav dinars. 2The participants in the CMEA were Bulgaria, Cuba, Czecho- slovakia, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the former U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. currency required for import payments may be pur- chased from banks. Under the provision of the law setting up the NBR as the central bank of the coun- try, which came into force on May 3, 1991, the NBR issues rules and regulations related to control of foreign exchange transactions. All capital transfers must be authorized by the NBR. Capital transfers connected with inheritance, proceeds from the liq- uidation of capital assets owned by foreign natural persons, and pension payments abroad are autho- rized by the NBR on the basis of visas issued by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Domestic com- mercial banks are authorized by the NBR to conduct foreign exchange transactions abroad for current international transactions, and are permitted to have foreign banks as correspondents or to borrow directly abroad with NBR authorization. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Ro- mania has bilateral payments agreements are made in currencies and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agreements.3 If no agreement exists, settlement is usually made in a convertible currency. Permitted foreign payments may not be made in lei. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Foreign juridical and natural persons may main- tain accounts with the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade and other commercial banks. There are three kinds of accounts. "A" accounts are maintained in convertible currencies, or in lei obtained for convert- ible currencies, from sales of precious metals, coins, or ingots, other than silver. "B" accounts are main- tained in nonconvertible currencies quoted by the National Bank, or in lei received from the conversion of such currencies for liquidation purposes only. Transactions in any individual "B" account may be effected in only one such currency. "C" accounts are maintained in lei received from other legal sources. A accounts may be debited for payments abroad in any currency, for payments within the 3As of December 31, 1991, Romania had bilateral payments agreements with Albania, Brazil, China, Ghana, India, Indo- nesia, Islamic Republic of Iran, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Malaysia. Settlements with Bulgaria, Cuba, Czecho- slovakia, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, the former U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam took place through the multilateral payments system within the International Bank for Economic Cooperation. 407 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 408 ROMANIA country, and for transfers to any other A, B, or C account. B accounts may be debited for all payments abroad in the currencies from which the funds were derived and for payments within Romania. C ac- counts may be debited only for domestic transac- tions. The transactions permitted for the different accounts do not require any fur ther authorization. Nonresidents may also keep accounts in lei with the Savings and Loan Bank. Authorized Romanian commercial banks may accept from nonresident customers time deposits in convertible currencies, on which interest is paid at rates prevailing in inter- national markets. Juridical persons with state-owned capital and/or privately owned capital are no longer permitted to maintain or to open foreign currency accounts with commercial banks authorized to operate in Romania by the NBR. Juridical persons may be allowed to open and maintain foreign exchange accounts in Romania or abroad, in special cases, with the prior authorization of the NBR. Romanian natural per- sons and foreigners permanently domiciled in Ro- mania may hold and utilize foreign means of pay- ment available in foreign exchange accounts opened with financial and banking institutions abroad with the authorization of the NBR. Natural persons may also hold foreign exchange in the form of bank notes and coins or in accounts opened with commercial banks authorized to operate in Romania, and may use freely such foreign exchange to effect interna- tional current payments, as well as to effect capital payments with the prior authorization of the NBR. The deposits may also be exchanged into lei, through the foreign exchange bureaus authorized to operate in Romania. Imports and Exports As of January 1, 1991, imports and exports of goods were substantially liberalized: most goods are now subject to automatic licensing; the excep- tions are prohibited and "controlled" items, which are detailed on specific lists, and those subject to temporary quotas. Temporary quotas on exports have been established to ensure adequate supplies for the domestic market (for example, food) and to restrain exports of goods subject to domestic price controls and products that had been imported at the (preunification) official exchange rate. Measures to curb imports may be taken by both the Ministry of Trade and Tourism and the Ministry of Economy and Finance to protect the balance of payments and public health or for reasons of national defense and the security of the state, in accordance with the provisions of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Imports are subject to customs tar iffs as stipu- lated in the import customs tariff regime, and tariff rates are on an ad valorem basis. With effect from January 1, 1991, the customs tariff regime has been modified. The modifications have involved elimina- tion of the discriminatory rates among economic agents, application of uniform rates irrespective of the end use of products, and substantial reductions in high tariff rates. Also, customs facilities, as spec- ified under the international protocols, will be made available. A new tariff code, with lower and less dispersed rates, was published in November 1991 and is scheduled to go into effect in January 1992. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All juridical economic agents may effect foreign exchange transfers for payments for invisible (or any international current account) transactions through authorized commercial banks. Commercial banks must verify, based on supporting documents, that the requested transfer is for bona fide current account purposes. Transfer requests for amounts exceeding the equivalent of $10,000 must be submit- ted to the NBR for prior authorization. Natural persons residing in Romania may take out of the country foreign exchange in the form of bank notes and coins up to a maximum amount equivalent to $5,000 a person a trip to effect current transactions (such as expenses on trips in organized groups or individual visits, medical treatments or purchases of medicines, participation in con- ferences, studies, purchases of consumer goods for personal use, and payments for services); no docu- mentation is required for amounts of $1,000 or less. Transfers by natural persons exceeding $5,000 must be made through banks. Transfers to banks abroad may also be made from the accounts of natu- ral persons who are domiciled permanently in Ro- mania and from accounts of other Romanian juridi- cal persons to effect current operations, except in special cases as stipulated by the law for which prior authorization is required and granted by the NBR on a case-by-case basis. Banks may not limit the volume of these operations as long as they are con- sidered to be bona fide current operations. The maximum amount of foreign currencies in the form of bank notes and coins that natural per- sons may bring into Romania is the equivalent of $50,000 a person a trip. Natural persons, who are Romanian or foreign citizens staying temporarily, and who enter Romania in possession of more than the equivalent of $1,000, are required to declare the excess amount. Amounts not converted into lei may be taken out of the country. The maximum amount ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA 409 of domestic currency that can be brought into or taken out of Romania is lei 2,500 a person a trip. Capital All inward and outward transfers of foreign ex- change must be authorized by the NBR. Outward transfers of funds belonging to resident natural per- sons are not normally permitted. For certain estab- lished categories, such as inheritances, reciprocal agreements have been concluded with a number of countries providing for automatic authorization of transfers of specified amounts to and from Romania. A new foreign direct investment law came into effect on May 3,1991. There are no limits on foreign equity participation in a commercial company set up in Romania, and foreign investments can be made in all sectors of the economy, except in areas where the environment or Romania's national se- curity and defense interests must be protected. Foreign investors can participate in the manage- ment of the investment operation or assign contrac- tual rights and obligations to other Romanian or foreign investors. In addition, foreign investors can transfer abroad their share of profits earned in con- vertible currencies or in lei; the proceeds in freely convertible currencies obtained from total or partial proceeds from sale of stocks, shares, bonds, and other securities, as well as from the liquidation of investments; and the proceeds in lei obtained from the liquidation of investments in freely convertible currencies in three annual installments. Imported machinery, equipment, installations, means of transport, and any other goods in kind, constituted as participation of the foreign investor, are ex- empted from customs duties. Foreign investors also benefit from certain tax advantages. Gold The NBR has sole authority to purchase or sell gold in any manner, at home or abroad. It, in turn, authorizes certain juridical persons to hold gold, to use it, and to engage in gold transactions. The ownership by natural persons, for domestic and personal use, of jewelry and of artistic and cultural objects of gold is not restricted. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement February 18. An interbank foreign exchange mar- ket was introduced in which the exchange rate would be determined through an auction-type fix- ing. The official exchange rate, to be determined by the NBR, would apply to foreign exchange surren- dered by exporters (50 percent of proceeds) and to sales of foreign exchange for imports of a limited number of products (for example, crude oil, natural gas, coal, electricity, and certain industrial raw materials). April 1. The official exchange rate was depreciated from lei 35 per US$1 to lei 60 per US$1. August 5. Foreign exchange bureaus were permit- ted to operate. November 11. The official exchange rate was uni- fied with the interbank foreign exchange market. All foreign exchange proceeds became subject to full surrender to the banking system. Resident and Nonresident Accounts November 11. Juridical persons with state-owned capital and/or privately owned capital were no longer permitted to maintain or to open foreign currency accounts with commercial banks. Imports and Exports January 1. A number of changes were introduced in the tariff code, with the aim of reducing distor- tions. General exemptions from tar iffs that had been granted to inputs used by the public sector were revoked, and the highest tariff rates were cut significantly. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles May 13. Regulations liberalizing current transac- tions and capital transfers were issued. Natural per- sons residing in Romania were permitted to take out of the country foreign exchange or to transfer it abroad through banks for current account transac- tions. All economic agents were allowed to transfer abroad foreign exchange purchased with lei through authorized commercial banks for current account transactions; transfers exceeding the equiv- alent of $10,000, however, would require the prior authorization of the NBR. November 11. The limits on transfers of profits were removed. Capital January 1. All commercial and noncommercial transactions that had been effected in transferable rubles began to be effected in convertible currencies. May 3. A new foreign direct investment law came into effect. Foreign investment would be allowed in all sectors of the economy, except in areas where the environment or Romania's national security and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 410 ROMANIA defense interests must be protected. There would be no limits on foreign equity participation in a commer- cial company set up in Romania, and foreign inves- tors would be allowed to participate in the manage- ment of the investment operation or assign contractual rights and obligations to other Romanian or foreign investors. Foreign investors would be al- lowed to transfer abroad (1) their share of profits earned in convertible currencies or in lei; (2) the pro- ceeds in freely convertible currencies obtained from sales of stocks, shares, bonds, and other securities, as well as from the liquidation of investments; and (3) the proceeds in lei obtained from the liquidation of invest- ments in freely convertible currencies in three annual installments. All capital goods and means of trans- port used in the installation of projects would be exempted from customs duties. Foreign investors would also benefit from certain tax advantages. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Rwanda is the Rwanda Franc, which is pegged to the SDR at RF 171.18 per SDR 1. This fixed relationship is used to determine the mid- point between buying and selling exchange rates set by the National Bank of Rwanda (the central bank) for spot delivery of Rwanda francs against the U.S. dollar and other currencies. Exchange rates against foreign currencies are based on the U.S. dol- lar value of the SDR basket currencies and the value in Belgian francs of other currencies, as published one business day earlier on the London market and by the National Bank of Belgium, respectively. On December 31, 1991, the midpoint between the buy- ing and selling rates for spot delivery of Rwanda francs against the U.S. dollar was RF 119.7912 per US$1. The buying and selling rates for all currencies are set at 1 percent below and 1 percent above the midpoint, respectively (± 2 percent for bank notes). There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign bank notes. Purchases of trav- eler's checks are subject to a commission of RF 550 for amounts below RF 10,000, RF 800 for amounts from RF 10,000 to RF 50,000, and RF 700 plus 2 per mill for amounts above RF 50,000. Other outward and inward transfers are subject to a commission of 3 per mil, with a minimum of RF 200 and a max- imum of RF 5,000. Since March 1990, the National Bank of Rwanda has also authorized imports of goods financed with foreign exchange outside the official channel. There are no arrangements for for- ward cover against exchange risk. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions is ves- ted in the central bank; authority to carry out some of these transactions is delegated to authorized banks. Arrears are maintained with respect to exter- nal payments. Prescription of Currency To facilitate trade and other external transactions, the central bank maintains agreements with the central banks of the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries (CEPGL) (Burundi, Rwanda, and Zaire). Under these arrangements, settlements are made through reciprocal accounts in convertible domestic currency; balances on such accounts are periodically transferable. Payments to and from the member countries of the Preferential Trade Area for Eastern and Southern African States (PTA) (Bu- rundi, Comoros, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Mauritius, Rwanda, Somalia, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia, and Zim- babwe) are made through the PTA's clearinghouse. Otherwise, payments for imports must be made in the currency approved by the central bank, which, in principle, is the currency of the country of origin. Payments from any country may be received in Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Ital- ian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Foreign payments, except in border trade, are gen- erally made by bank transfer; the central bank may, however, authorize other means of payment, such as checks or telegraphic transfers. Exchange trans- actions with South Africa are prohibited. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa and all narcotics are prohibited. Certain categories of imports, such as explosives and weapons, require prior approval from the competent authorities, regardless of origin and value. For reasons of health, the importation of veterinary medicines, disinfectants, insecticides, rodent poisons, fungicides, herbicides, and other toxic or potentially toxic chemicals is subject to ap- proval of the pro forma invoices by the Ministry of Health. All imports valued (c . i . f .) at over RF 100,000 require licenses, as do those valued at less than RF 100,000 if payment is required in foreign ex- change. Since June 1990, the granting of import licenses has been partially liberalized. After paying a 5 percent fee levied on the value of imports re- quested, importers submit applications for foreign exchange to the central bank, which determines the amount of foreign exchange available for a given month. If the demand for foreign exchange exceeds the amount available, the allocations are reduced proportionally for every importer without discrimi- nation. In order to ensure that there are no short- ages of essential goods, certain products are ex- cluded from this scheme, and requests for foreign exchange to import have been fully met; the items excluded from this scheme are petroleum products, sugar, salt, milk powder, semolina, malt, hops, cooking oil, pharmaceutical products, mineral fer- tilizers, insecticides and pesticides, and gypsum. 411 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 412 RWANDA The central bank levies a validation fee of 1 per- cent of the f .o .b. value on import licenses that in- volve use of official foreign exchange and on import licenses that are subject to inspection by interna- tional agencies; the validation fee for fuel is 0.1 per mill. The validation fee for other import licenses is RF 750 each. Before orders are placed, applications for import licenses must be submitted to the central bank through an authorized bank. Unless other- wise specified, the approval of an import license application constitutes authorization to obtain the required foreign exchange. Since March 1990, the central bank has also authorized imports of goods financed with foreign exchange outside official channels. The central bank grants global import licenses for certain essential commodities and for limited amounts to individual firms in order to ensure their continuous operation; these are valid for three months (six months for vehicle parts). License ap- plications are examined at the National Bank to pre- vent overinvoicing. Dealers of imported auto- mobiles are required to provide after-sale service for the vehicles. Used automobiles can be imported only if they are less than three years old, and the importer has to assure the availability of spare parts. Imports whose f .o .b. value on the pro forma in- voice is greater than RF 1.5 million in the case of ordinary licenses and RF 0.5 million in the case of global licenses are inspected by international agen- cies for quality and quantity in the country of origin1 before shipment, and, at the same time, prices are verified. Import licenses must be presented when the goods are cleared through customs, and a copy of the customs clearance form must be sent to the central bank. For imports of products originating in member countries of the CEPGL, import licenses are replaced by CEPGL import notices. The Rwanda investment code grants special concessions to enter- prises under a contractual arrangement, which may imply exemption from import duties on certain types of equipment. The import tariff regime is gov- erned by the tariff code of August 30, 1991. Payments for Invisibles The prior approval of the central bank is required for all payments for invisibles. Foreign exchange is sold by the central bank, through the authorized banks, for transport and other expenses (except Except for imports from Afghanistan, Albania, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Chad, China, Comoros, Djibouti, Gabon, Guinea, Iraq, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Lao Peo- ple's Democratic Republic, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mali, Niger, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Syrian Arab Re- public, Tanzania, Uganda, former republics of the U.S.S.R., Viet Nam, Republic of Yemen, and Zaire. insurance) connected with imports and exports. Payments in respect of transport charges on imports cannot be made until imported goods have been cleared through customs (except for payments through documentary credit payable on loading). Insurance on imports and exports must be taken out locally, with an insurance company established un- der Rwanda law. Transfers of the salaries and wages earned by foreign nationals employed in Rwanda under con- tract are made net of taxes, net of the employee's share of social security contributions, and a f ter deduction of local expenses. These expenses are calculated by one of two formu las, at the em- ployee's option: (1) 40 percent of gross monthly pay a f ter tax and social security contributions, with a minimum of RF 50,000 a month; or (2) RF 70,000 a month for a head of household, plus RF 20,000 a month for each dependent in Rwanda. Transfers of the net earned income of fo re ign nationals who are self-employed, whether engaged in a profession or established as indepen- dent traders, are also made net of taxes and a f ter deduction of local expenses. A fee of RF 750 is levied for t rans fer authorizations other than those relating to income (broadly def ined) received in Rwanda, for which a fee of 1 percent of the amount to be t ran s fe r red is charged, with a mini- mum of RF 750. Net prof i ts and dividends owed to nonresidents may, in principle, be remitted abroad in fu l l, subject to the right of the central bank to prescribe their t rans fer in installments. Only traveler's checks in UAPTAs (Units of Ac- count of the Preferential Trade Area for Eastern and Southern African States) are issued to travelers to PTA member states. Foreign account holders travel- ing in the PTA region may purchase foreign forms of payment other than traveler's checks in UAPTAs. Sales of these checks are subject to prevailing ex- change regulations. The purchase in domestic currency of tickets for travel abroad requires the prior approval of the cen- tral bank. Travel for business and official purposes is restricted to the essential minimum, and foreign residents working in Rwanda are allowed only one economy-class airline ticket every two years of ac- tual service in Rwanda; more than one trip is per- mitted only if the total cost of tickets does not exceed that of one full-fare ticket. Remittances for pay- ments for certain other invisibles may be authorized on an ad hoc basis. Travelers may take out domestic bank notes up to RF 5,000. Commercial banks are not permitted to export domestic bank notes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA 413 Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. All ex- ports, except trade samples, personal and house- hold effects of travelers, and merchandise valued at less than RF 20,000, are subject to prior declaration. Declarations for exports must be presented to the central bank through an authorized bank for cer- tification, for which a fee of RF 750 is levied. A declaration is valid for three months, but extensions may be granted by the central bank, which also reserves the right to determine the conditions for certification. Payments for exports to Burundi, Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zaire must be col- lected no later than 30 days after the goods have left the country; this deadline is not applicable to ex- ports under CEPGL export notices, for which there is a quarterly clearing arrangement among the cen- tral banks. The maximum permissible period for repatriation of proceeds from exports to all other countries is 120 days. All exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered to an authorized bank within 8 days of their collection. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the authorized banks within eight days of their collec- tion. Travelers from abroad may bring in up to RF 5,000 in domestic bank notes and any amount in foreign bank notes. Commercial banks are not per- mitted to import domestic bank notes. The law requir- ing that travelers declare foreign exchange on enter- ing Rwanda was abolished on December 1, 1990. Capital All outward transfers of capital require the prior approval of the central bank. Such approval is rarely granted unless the transfer relates to a for- eign investment in Rwanda that is covered by the Investment Law or to the personal effects of a for- eign national returning to his own country, pro- vided that he bought them with foreign exchange and sold them to a resident national. Enterprises considered to have national economic priority are exempted from the corporation tax for 5-15 years. Repatriation of dividends to foreign shareholders is allowed. Repatriation guarantees may be given by the central bank in respect of short-term capital inflows; licenses for retransfer of these foreign cur- rencies are valid for one year but may be extended at the request of the beneficiary of financing. Outward transfers of proceeds from sales of real estate are suspended. Foreign refinancing of imports is sub- ject to guidelines limiting the number of eligible products, establishing a limit of 180 days from the date of shipment on the maturity of the financing, and specifying acceptable interest rates and commissions. Gold Trade in gold is restricted to dealers approved by the relevant ministry. Imports and exports of gold require licenses. Changes During 1991 Imports and Import Payments May 1. All quantitative restrictions intended to protect local industries were removed. The main products liberalized were sheet metal, cement, agri- cultural implements, and certain fabrics. June 1. The import-licensing system was sim- plified. A nonrefundable 5 percent fee was imposed on import licenses. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. KITTS AND NEVIS (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of St. Kitts and Nevis is the Eastern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB) and is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 per US$1. On December 31, 1991, the buy- ing and selling rates were EC$2.67 and EC$2.71, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound ster- ling. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. St. Kitts and Nevis formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from December 3, 1984. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and applies to all countries. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of ECCB countries must be effected in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Foreign Currency Accounts U.S. dollar currency accounts may be operated freely, but permission of the Ministry of Finance is required to operate other foreign currency accounts; such permis- sion is normally confined to major exporters and foreign nationals not ordinarily residing in St. Kitts and Nevis. These accounts may be credited only with foreign cur- rency earned or received from outside St. Kitts and Nevis and may be freely debited. A minimum balance of US$1,000 must be maintained at all times to operate a U.S. dollar currency account. Imports and Import Payments Most goods are imported under open general licenses. Individual licenses are required for im- ports that compete with local products unless they come from another member country of the Carib- bean Common Market (CARicoM).2 Payments for irThe Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Lu- cia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. authorized imports payable in U.S. dollars are per- mitted on presentation of documentary evidence of purchase to a bank, but payments in currencies other than the U.S. dollar need the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Payments for Invisibles All settlements overseas require exchange control approval, except where the currency involved is the U.S. dollar, in which case commercial banks are authorized to pay on presentation of documentary evidence. Where the currency involved is not the U.S. dollar, application must be made directly to the Ministry of Finance; authorization is normally granted for certain specific purposes and services. Residents of St. Kitts and Nevis may purchase foreign exchange from authorized banks up to the equivalent of EC$1,500 a year for travel outside the ECCB area, subject to presentation of evidence of intention to travel for bona fide purposes. For busi- ness travel, allowances of foreign exchange may be made available up to EC$5,000 a year a company. These allocations can be increased in bona fide cases with the authorization of the Ministry of Finance. Residents traveling abroad for medical treatment are eligible for an allowance of EC$1,000, which may be raised without any limitation, provided that a medical certificate is presented. There is a 7.5 per- cent ad valorem tax on all travel tickets. Education allowances are subject to approval by the Ministry of Finance. Residents may also make cash gifts to nonresidents not exceeding a total value of EC$250 a donor a year. Profits and divi- dends may be remitted in full, subject to confirma- tion of registration by the Commissioner of Inland Revenue for income tax purposes. Exports and Export Proceeds Specific licenses are required for the exportation of certain goods to any destination. Export proceeds must be deposited into an ECCB currency account or an approved U.S. dollar foreign currency ac- count. Duties are levied on exports of lobster, sugar, and certain other products. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invisibles must be sold to a bank or deposited into an approved U.S. dollar account if the proceeds are 414 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. KITTS AND NEVIS 415 in U.S. dollars. Travelers to St. Kitts and Nevis may freely bring in notes and coins denominated in East- ern Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange con- trol approval. The purchase by residents of foreign currency securities and of real estate situated abroad for private purposes is not normally permitted. Per- sonal capital transfers, such as inheritances, to non- residents require approval, which is normally granted subject to payment of any taxes due. Emigrants leav- ing St. Kitts and Nevis to take up residence outside the area served by the ECCB may transfer their assets with the permission of the Ministry of Finance. Direct investments in St. Kitts and Nevis by non- residents do not require exchange control approval. The remittance of proceeds from earnings on, and liquidation of, such investments is permitted, sub- ject to the discharge of any liabilities related to the investment. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for nonresidents to borrow in St. Kitts and Nevis. Gold There are no restrictions on the purchase, sale, and holdings of gold either for numismatic or indus- trial purposes. Changes During 1991 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. LUCIA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of St. Lucia is the Eastern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at EC$2.70 - US$1. On December 31, 1991, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were EC$2.6882 and EC$2.7169, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. Sales of foreign ex- change by the commercial banks are subject to a tax of 1 percent. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. St. Lucia formally accepted the obligations of Ar- ticle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 30, 1980. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance, Statistics, and Negotiating and applies to all currencies other than the Eastern Caribbean dollar. Export licensing is required for a range of primary products. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade; those for agri- cultural products are issued by the Ministry of Agri- culture. Arrears are maintained with respect to ex- ternal payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARicoM)2 must be made either in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned or in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made either in any foreign currency3 or in East- ern Caribbean dollars. Where justified by the nature of the transaction, approval may be given to make payments for goods and services in a currency other than that of the country to which payment is to be made. irThe Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Ja- maica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Eastern Caribbean dollar. Nonresident (External) Accounts External accounts may be opened for nonresident individuals or companies with the approval of the Ministry of Finance and are maintained in Eastern Caribbean dollars. These accounts may be credited only with foreign drafts or checks, but hotels may also deposit currency notes in them. Such accounts may be debited for payments to residents payable in Eastern Caribbean dollars and, after approval by the Ministry of Finance, for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel purposes and other specified payments, including payment for imports. As funds in an external account are normally convert- ible into a foreign currency, deposits to and with- drawals from such an account require exchange control approval from the Ministry of Finance. Foreign Currency Accounts A foreign currency account is defined as an ac- count denominated in a currency other than the Eastern Caribbean dollar. With the prior permission of the Ministry of Finance, residents or nonresi- dents may open foreign currency accounts with au- thorized dealers in St. Lucia. Such permission is granted in special cases where the applicant earns foreign exchange and has to make frequent pay- ments abroad. A resident or nonresident (whether an individual, firm, company, association, or in- stitution) wishing to open a foreign currency ac- count must apply to the Ministry of Finance through an authorized dealer, stating the nature and estimated volume of receipts and payments in the desired foreign currency. All payments from a foreign currency account require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance and are subject to the 1 percent tax on sales of foreign exchange. Where permission is granted, the authorized dealer must submit to the Ministry of Finance a monthly state- ment of account, together with full details of pay- ments and receipts. This is to ensure that the condi- tions for holding foreign currency are observed. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Most goods may be imported without import li- censes. Certain other commodities require individ- ual licenses, unless imported from CARICOM coun- tries. Payments in foreign currency for authorized imports are permitted upon application to a local 416 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. LUCIA 417 bank and submission of certified customs entry. Advance payments for imports require prior ap- proval from the Ministry of Finance. In June 1981, St. Lucia adopted the new rules of origin that govern the eligibility for duty-free treat- ment of goods produced or manufactured in the CARICOM region. Imports of live animals, milk, meat, fish, eggs, fertilizers, and most agricultural and industrial machinery are exempt from import duties. Other exempt items include most imports from CARICOM and the member countries of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (DECS), certain imports for use in industry, agriculture, fish- ing, air and sea transport (under industrial incen- tive legislation), and items exempted under the Hotel Aid Ordinance and Fiscal Incentives Ordi- nance. The rates of import duty in the OECS tariff vary from 5 percent on certain basic food items to 70 percent on bay rum and firearms. A stamp duty of 1 percent of the c .i .f. value had been levied on all imports except fertilizers, for which the rate was Vs of 1 percent. In October 1989, the stamp duty was replaced by a customs service charge of 2 percent of the c . i . f. value. Certain imports are subject to a consumption tax that is based on the c . i . f. value plus import duty. Payments for Invisibles Residents may purchase foreign exchange from authorized banks up to the equivalent of EC$3,000 a year for travel; this limit may be exceeded only with permission from the Ministry of Finance. Persons traveling within the CARICOM area using CARICOM traveler's checks (which are denominated in Trin- idad and Tobago currency) receive the basic al- lowance of EC$2,000 a year. A travel tax is levied on the sale of airline tickets at the rate of 2.5 percent of the price of the ticket for travel within the CARICOM area and 5 percent for travel elsewhere. The Eastern Caribbean dollar is freely transferable within the ECCB area. With the approval of the Ministry of Finance, profits may be remitted in full, subject to confirmation by the Comptroller of Inland Revenue that local tax liabilities have been discharged. How- ever, in cases where profits are deemed to be high, the Ministry of Finance and Planning reserves the right to phase remittances over a reasonable period of time. Insurance premiums are taxed as follows: life insurance, 1.5 percent for residents and 3 per- cent for nonresident companies; general insurance, 3 percent for residents and 5 percent for nonresi- dent companies. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain commodities may be exported to any des- tination without a license. Proceeds must, in princi- ple, be surrendered. A duty at the rate of 2.5 per- cent of the f .o .b. value is levied on banana exports. A special fee of US$0.02 a barrel is applied on re- exports of petroleum. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invisibles must, in principle, be surrendered. Trav- elers to St. Lucia may freely bring in notes and coins denominated in Eastern Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. Foreign currency coins are not normally exchanged by the banks. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. Residents are not normally per- mitted to purchase foreign currency securities and real estate situated abroad for private purposes. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances to nonresidents, require approval, which is normally granted, provided that local tax liabilities have been discharged. Nonresidents who purchase property are taxed at a higher rate than are residents. Any resident who requires a loan from local sources must first have the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Applications for nonresident loans are submitted by the authorized dealer (or other finan- cial intermediary) to the Ministry of Finance on behalf of the applicant. Gold There are no restrictions on the importation of gold. Changes During 1991 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of St. Vincent and the Grenadines is the Eastern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dol- lar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 per US$1. On December 31,1991, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were EC$2.6882 and EC$2.7169, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound ster- ling. The sale of foreign exchange by commercial banks is subject to a 2 percent tax. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. St. Vincent and the Grenadines formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from August 24, 1981. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and applies to all countries outside the ECCB area. The Ministry delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve some import pay- ments and certain other payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARicoM)2 must be made either through external accounts (in East- ern Caribbean dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned. Settlements with resi- dents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency3 or through an external account in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Nonresident Accounts External accounts may be opened for nonresi- dents with the authorization of the Ministry of Fi- 1The Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, and St. Lucia. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Ja- maica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3Foreign currencies include all currencies other than the East- ern Caribbean dollar. nance. They are maintained in Eastern Caribbean dollars and may be credited with inward remit- tances in foreign currency and with transfers from other external accounts. Except with the prior ap- proval of the Ministry of Finance, remittances in Eastern Caribbean currency, foreign currency notes and coins, and payments by residents may not be credited to external accounts. These accounts may, however, be freely debited for payments abroad and to residents without the prior authorization of the Ministry of Finance. Transactions on these accounts are subject to the 2 percent tax on sales of foreign exchange. The operating banks must submit quar- terly statements of the accounts to the Ministry of Finance. Foreign Currency Accounts Accounts denominated in foreign currencies may be opened by nonresidents with the authorization of the Ministry of Finance; such accounts may be credited only with funds in the form of remittances from overseas. Except with the prior permission of the Ministry of Finance, remittances in Eastern Ca- ribbean currency, foreign currency notes and coins, and payments by residents may not be credited to a foreign currency account. These accounts may be debited for payments abroad without prior authori- zation from the Ministry of Finance. Transactions on these accounts are subject to a 2 percent tax on sales of foreign exchange. The operating banks must sub- mit quarterly statements of the accounts to the Min- istry of Finance. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Import items are divided into three categories: the largest category covers goods that may be freely imported; imports of some goods that compete with typical exports of other member countries of the CARICOM and the Organization of East Caribbean States (OECS)4 are subject to licenses; and imports of goods that compete with locally made products are prohibited in some cases. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary 4The OECS comprises Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Gre- nada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 418 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES 419 evidence and, when required, of the license. Ad- vance payments for imports require prior approval from the Ministry of Finance. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized im- ports are not restricted. Payments for travel, medi- cal treatment, education, subscription and member- ship fees, and gifts are subject to limits. All other payments exceeding EC$100 must be approved by the Ministry of Finance, and approval is granted routinely. Residents may purchase foreign ex- change from authorized banks up to the equivalent of EC$2,500 a year for travel outside the ECCB area; for business travel, additional allocations of foreign exchange may be made available up to an amount of not more than EC$6,000 a year. The above alloca- tions can be increased with the authorization of the Ministry of Finance. Purchases of foreign currency to cover expenses for medical treatment abroad are authorized by the Ministry of Finance upon presen- tation of a written statement by a local medical prac- titioner of the need for the treatment. The amount approved is based on the actual cost of the treat- ment. The amount of local currency that travelers may take out is limited to EC$50 a trip. A 5 percent tax is levied on the value of all tickets for travel originating in St. Vincent and the Grenadines, whether or not the ticket is purchased in the country. Students attending educational institutions over- seas are permitted to purchase foreign exchange to cover the cost of tuition and living expenses. Docu- mentary proof of acceptance and attendance at the institution is required. Transfers of funds within the ECCB area require the authorization of the Ministry of Finance when individual transactions exceed EC$2,000. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. Specific licenses are required for the exportation to any des- tination of some agricultural goods included in the CARICOM marketing protocol and in the CARICOM Oils and Fats Agreement. The licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade, which, in some cases, has delegated its authority to the St. Vincent Central Marketing Corporation. Exports of goats, sheep, and lobsters are subject to licensing to prevent de- pletion of stocks. All export proceeds must be sur- rendered. A 3 percent export duty is levied on bananas. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may freely bring in notes and coins denominated in East- ern Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. Residents are normally not per- mitted to purchase foreign currency securities or real estate situated abroad for private purposes. On presentation of documentary proof that they are taking up permanent residence in a foreign country, emigrants may apply to the Ministry of Finance to transfer funds abroad based on the value of assets held in St. Vincent and the Grenadines. The transfer of sums is normally limited to EC$20,000 a year as is the transfer of proceeds from sales of assets held by emigrants already residing in a foreign country. Direct investment in St. Vincent and the Grena- dines by nonresidents is not subject to exchange control. The remittance of earnings on, and liquida- tion proceeds from, such investment is permitted, subject to the discharge of any liabilities related to the investment. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for nonresidents to borrow in St. Vincent and the Grenadines. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their do- mestic operations requires the approval of the Min- istry of Finance. Gold Residents are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Under license by the Ministry of Finance, imports of gold are per- mitted for industrial purposes only. Changes During 1991 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sao Tome and Principe is the Sao Tome and Principe Dobra, the external value of which is pegged to a basket of currencies of the nine major trading partners of Sao Tome and Principe. The authorities follow a crawling peg policy. The intervention currency for the dobra is the U.S. dol- lar. On December 31,1991, the exchange rate for the U.S. dollar (the middle rate) was Db 280.021 per US$1. Rates for certain other currencies are deter- mined on the basis of the exchange rates of the U.S. dollar for the currencies concerned. Foreign exchange transactions are divided into three categories for the purposes of assessing charges on purchases and sales of foreign exchange—namely, import payments, transactions in foreign checks, and collection of export proceeds. On import-related exchange transactions, the ar- rangements are as follows: when a letter of credit is opened, a charge of 1.125 percent of the import value is payable, with an additional commission to the National Bank of 0.5 percent. A stamp duty of 0.35 percent is also payable, as well as a postage levy of Db 140. Any change in the letter of credit carries a further charge of Db 250. On foreign checks for collection, the National Bank applies a commission in favor of the collecting foreign correspondents, varying according to the particular bank. In addition, the National Bank charges a postage levy of Db 90 for each transaction, together with an endorsement stamp fee of Db 30. In the period between payment of the import cost by the bank and receipt of funds from the importer, an interest rate of 37 percent a year is charged on the loan. For collection of export proceeds, the National Bank charges a commission of 0.25 percent when the letter of credit is opened and a fee of 0.125 per- cent when the funds are received. In addition, it charges a postage levy of Db 1,200. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange risk operating in the official or the commercial bank- ing sector. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions come under the control of the National Bank, which applies the ex- change controls flexibly and permits exceptions to the stated limits on an ad hoc basis. All foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered to the Na- tional Bank, and all exchange payments must be made through this bank, with the exception of a 30 percent retention of earnings by producer- exporters for import payments purposes (see sec- tion on Exports and Export Proceeds below). Import and export licenses are granted by the Directorate of External Commerce. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency The National Bank may prescribe the currency in which foreign exchange transactions shall be made. A bilateral payments agreement is maintained with Cape Verde. Transactions under this payments agreement have normally covered Sao Tome and Principe's imports from Cape Verde, as well as re- ceipts and payments for various services and trans- fers. The agreement provides for the central banks of the two countries to grant each other reciprocal noninterest credits of $200,000; it also states that, should this balance be depleted and a debit balance persist for more than six months, the imbalance will be redressed by appropriate trade transactions be- tween the two parties. Imports and Import Payments Registered importers (including all productive entities) holding approved import licenses are per- mitted to engage in import activity. Imports by the state-owned foreign trading enterprise ECOMEX are limited to beans, edible oil, milk, rice, sugar, and wheat flour; however, in June 1990, the monopoly of ECOMEX (which is in the process of liquidation) to import these products was formally abolished, and the private sector is now free to import them. Fuels and lubricants are imported by ENCO (the fuel enterprise) and medicines by ENAMED (the phar- maceutical enterprise) and by the private phar- maceutical sector. Import licenses, which are ex- pected to be abolished soon, are granted by the Commerce Directorate and must be approved by the National Bank for purposes of exchange cover. For all imports, licenses are issued in accordance with Advance Import Registration Bulletins, which are valid for six months, but may be extended if necessary. The license specifies the quantity and the c . i .f. and f .o .b. values of the product to be im- ported, together with the currency of settlement. 420 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE 421 Licenses are granted under the annual import plan, taking into account the availability of foreign ex- change and the country's supply of consumer goods and economic development requirements. When importers open letters of credit, they are required to lodge a non-interest-bearing deposit in domestic currency equivalent to 40 percent of the value of the letters of credit; the remainder may be financed with a 120-day loan from the National Bank. Prepay- ment for imports is permitted only through the opening of letters of credit. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized im- ports are not restricted. Payments for other invis- ibles are approved within limits established by the National Bank. These limits, which allow for addi- tional amounts in justifiable cases, include those on (1) transfers for medical treatment abroad when local facilities are inadequate; (2) transfers of remit- tances to students; (3) transfers of savings from earnings under technical cooperation agreements with the Government; and (4) transfers for payment of fares, freight, and costs of communication with foreign countries. Purchases of foreign exchange by residents for tourism are limited, although air fares may be paid in domestic currency. Purchases of airline tickets by private citizens for travel abroad are permitted only once a quarter. However, trav- elers for business purposes are permitted to pur- chase tickets up to five times a year. Transfers of profits by foreign companies established in Sao Tome and Principe before independence have been suspended. There are no limitations on remittances for subscriptions to periodicals and books, or on the payments of interest on external debt. Foreign exchange allowances for medical pur- poses are permitted up to the equivalent of Db 300,000 for a period of one month. Transfers of pension payments or social security payments are also permitted for nonresident nationals who had been receiving such allowances before 1980. Pay- ments for technical assistance and other services in the national interest are allowed. At the beginning of the school year, a student is granted permission to transfer up to the equivalent of Db 15,000 a month, or Db 4,000 a year, for expenses related to courses taken abroad; additional amounts may be granted if approved by the Ministry of Education and Culture. All payments related to invisibles are subject to a stamp tax of 2.5 percent, or 5 percent when pay- ments are made through telegraphic transfer. A postage levy of Db 90 is payable on all transactions. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require an export license, as set out in Advance Export Registration Bulletins, which spec- ify the quantity and c . i .f. or f .o .b. value of the ex- port. All export proceeds must be collected through the National Bank. However, producers of exported goods may retain 30 percent of export proceeds in accounts with correspondent banks of the National Bank abroad to meet their import requirements. Proceeds from Invisibles Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign exchange. Capital Inward foreign investments are governed by the Investment Code implemented in April 1986. Transfers are permitted for repayment of financing under agreements with the Government and for the amortization of private sector investments in ac- tivities considered to be in the national interest. Personnel under technical assistance programs are allowed to transfer their savings in accordance with the terms of their contracts. Gold Exports and imports of gold require special autho- rization from the National Bank. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangements September 1. The external value of the dobra was devalued by about 40 percent to Db 280.021 per US$1, and the authorities subsequently began to follow a crawling peg policy. Prescription of Currency January 1. The bilateral payments agreement with China was not renewed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Saudi Arabia is the Saudi Arabian Riyal, which is pegged to the SDR at SRls 4.28255 per SDR 1. In principle, margins not exceeding 7.25 percent are allowed around the fixed relation- ship; these margins were suspended on July 22, 1981. The intervention currency is the U.S. dollar, the rate against which is determined by the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency. On December 31, 1991, the Monetary Agency's middle rate for the U.S. dol- lar was SRls 3.745 per US$1; it sold U.S. dollars to banks at SRls 3.750 per US$1 and bought from banks and the principal producer of petroleum at SRls 3.740 per US$1; these rates, which have not changed since June 1, 1986, serve as the basis for exchange quotations in the market, the banks being permitted to charge up to 0.25 percent above and below the Monetary Agency's buying and selling rates. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The commercial bank- ing sector has an active forward market to cover exchange risks up to 12 months. Saudi Arabia formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from March 22, 1961. Prescription of Currency The use of the currencies of Israel and South Africa is prohibited.1 No other prescription of cur- rency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required, and exchange for payments abroad is obtained freely. The impor- tation of a few commodities is prohibited for reasons of religion, health, or security. Most imports are subject to customs duties at rates ranging between zero and 12 percent, while a short list of imports is subject to a rate of 20 percent, and tobacco products, to a rate of 30 percent. Imports from member states of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC) are exempted, provided that at least 40 percent of the value added in each case is effected *In addition, all imports from and all exports to these countries are prohibited; payments may neither be made to them nor received from them for any type of transaction, whether of a current or capital nature. in GCC countries and that at least 51 percent of the capital of the producing firm is owned by citizens of GCC member countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, and no control is exercised over export proceeds. The re-exportation of certain imported items benefiting from govern- ment subsidy is prohibited. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted. Travelers may freely import and ex- port Saudi Arabian bank notes and coins. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents. The Monetary Agency has issued guide- lines to its foreign correspondent banks requiring them to seek approval before the flotation of riyal- denominated loans. Local banks are required to obtain the approval of the Monetary Agency before inviting foreign banks to participate in riyal- denominated syndicated transactions inside or out- side Saudi Arabia. Prior approval by the Monetary Agency is also required for participation by local banks in either riyal-syndicated transactions ar- ranged abroad or foreign-currency-syndicated transactions arranged for nonresidents. The For- eign Capital Investment Law provides for specified benefits to be extended to approved foreign invest- ments in Saudi Arabia. Approved foreign capital enjoys the same privileges as domestic capital un- der the 1962 Law for the Protection and Promotion of National Industry. Foreign capital invested in in- dustrial or agricultural projects with at least 25 per- cent Saudi Arabian participation is exempt from income and corporate tax for ten years after produc- tion has begun. Gold The monetary authorities and all other residents, including private persons, may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, without a license 422 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA 423 .and without payment of any customs duty or tax, import and export gold in any form, with the excep- tion of gold of 14 karats or less, the importation of which is prohibited. Changes During 1991 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Senegal is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.02. The official buying and selling rate is CFAF 50 per F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO no longer levies a commission on transfers to and from countries outside the West African Monetary Union (WAMU).2 Banks charge an exchange commission of 0.125-1.0 per mill on purchases and sales of for- eign exchange, depending on the amount, other than those directly related to external transactions. In addition, they levy a commission of 2.5 per mill on transfers to all countries outside the WAMU, all of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Forward cover against exchange risk is available to residents only for imports of a specified category of goods. All forward cover against exchange risk must be authorized by the Directorate of Money and Credit (Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Plan- ning). Forward cover against exchange risk can be provided only in the currency of settlement stipu- lated in the commercial contract. Maturities must correspond to the due date of foreign exchange settlement as stipulated in the commercial contract and must not exceed one month. For some specified products, the maturity of forward cover may be extended one time for up to three months. With the exception of measures relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, Senegal's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries irThe CFA franc is issued by the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2Transfers between member countries of the WAMU are free of any commission. may be made freely. All other countries are consid- ered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate of Money and Credit in the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Planning. Part of the approval au- thority in respect of exchange control has been dele- gated to the BCEAO and to authorized banks. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the banks, other financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public, any in- formation necessary to compile balance of pay- ments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through au- thorized banks, the Postal Administration, or the BCEAO. The Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Handicrafts issues export authorizations and prior import authorizations for listed products. Prescription of Currency Since Senegal is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Mo- naco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current transactions with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone may be settled through the West Afri- can Clearing House arrangement. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through cor- respondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through for- eign accounts in francs. All settlements with South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Opera- tions Account is not permitted, except for BCEAO bank notes mailed to the BCEAO agency in Dakar by an authorized bank's foreign correspondent; such bank notes may be credited to a foreign ac- count in francs opened by the latter with an autho- rized bank in Senegal. Foreign accounts in francs may be debited, without prior authorization, with 424 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL 425 the value of BCEAO bank notes mailed by autho- rized intermediaries directly to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments Imports originating in or transshipped from Is- rael and South Africa are prohibited. With respect to other countries, the principle of most-favored- nation treatment of all Senegal's commercial part- ners was established in 1981. Moreover, quantitative restrictions and prior authorization requirements for certain imports are now based only on the type of product, not on the country of origin or trans- shipment. Quantitative restrictions may be applied for various reasons, such as agricultural policy, sani- tation, or protection of certain products (cement, fertilizers, sugar, wheat flour, and tomatoes). All import transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000 (delivered at the Senegalese border or c . i . f . ). The exchange authorizations entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange but not earlier than eight days before shipment of goods to Senegal if a documen- tary credit is opened, or on the due date for settle- ment if the commodities have already been im- ported (if no documentary credit has been opened, on presentation of the bill of lading). Furthermore, payments for imports, with the exception of down payments, are permitted only after proper docu- mentation is submitted regarding customs clear- ance. Advance payments for imports require autho- rization, and importers may not acquire foreign exchange until the contractual date of such payments. All imports, except those in transit and those intended for the free zone of Dakar, are subject to a service fee of 3 percent. All imports exceeding values ( f .o .b .) of CFAF 1.5 million are subject to inspection by international agencies with respect to quality, quantity, price, and tariff classification. Payments for Invisibles All payments to South Africa are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are sub- ject to exchange approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Authorized intermediary banks are empowered to effect any payment abroad of up to CFAF 20,000 on behalf of residents without requiring documents. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted, on the basis of a request for exchange authorization submitted to the Ministry of Finance. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a year for each person (CFAF 100,000 for children under 10); after their return to Senegal, they must surrender any unused foreign exchange. Applica- tions for additional amounts of foreign exchange may also be approved on the basis of applications for foreign exchange authorizations submitted to the Ministry of Finance. Business travelers may receive a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 300,000 a person a trip, but may not take out more than the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 in BCEAO bank notes or its equivalent in currency notes issued by the Bank of France or a bank of issue linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. A foreigner working in Senegal may transfer his full net salary upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months following the pay period. Resident and nonresident travelers to foreign countries may take out, in addition to any foreign exchange allocation, up to CFAF 20,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes of other Operations Account countries. Resident trav- elers to other countries of the Operations Account Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes, but, if proceeding to a country that is not a member of the WAMU, must declare to customs the amount they take out if it exceeds CFAF 200,000. Nonresident travelers may freely take out any means of payment, such as traveler's checks, issued abroad in their name. However, the exportation of foreign bank notes in amounts in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 is authorized only up to the amount they declared on entry (minus sales of foreign exchange in Senegal and plus any re- purchases of up to CFAF 50,000). Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. With a few exceptions (for example, gold, diamonds, cereals, peanuts, tomato paste, fine pearls, precious and similar stones, plated or coated precious metals, articles made of them, precious metal products, and costume jewelry), exports do not require prior authorization. Certain nontradi- tional exports to nonmember countries of the West African Economic Community (WAEC) are eligible ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 426 SENEGAL for an export subsidy equivalent to 25 percent based on industrial value added at international prices. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries, includ- ing members of the WAMU and the Operations Account countries, must normally be collected within 120 days of the arrival of the goods at their destination and repatriated through BCEAO not later than 1 month af ter the due date. All export transactions exceeding CFAF 500,000 must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered, if received in foreign currency, within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of coun- tries outside the Operations Account Area; resi- dents bringing in foreign bank notes must declare them to customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized bank within eight days. Capital All settlements between Senegal and South Af- rica are prohibited. Capital movements between Senegal and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other coun- tries require the approval of the Ministry of Econ- omy, Finance, and Planning, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Controls are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward in- vestment, and over the issuing, advertising, or of- fering for sale of foreign securities in Senegal. Such operations require the prior authorization of the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning. Ex- empted from authorization, however, are opera- tions in connection with (1) loans backed by a guar- antee from the Senegalese Government, and (2) shares that are identical with, or may be sub- stituted for, securities whose issuance or offering for sale in Senegal has previously been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign se- curities, these measures do not apply to France, Monaco, member countries of the WAMU, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Senegal require prior authorization from the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning;3 75 percent of such investments must be financed with borrowing from abroad. Foreign direct investments in Senegal4 must be declared to the Minister of Economy, Fi- nance, and Planning before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request postponement of the project. Both the making and the liquidating of direct and other investments, whether these are Senegalese investments abroad or foreign investments in Senegal, must be reported to the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning and the BCEAO within 20 days of each operation. Direct investments constitute investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participa- tion is not considered direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock ex- change. Lending abroad requires prior authoriza- tion from the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents re- quires prior authorization from the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; and (2) loans contracted by authorized banks. The re- payment of loans not constituting a direct invest- ment requires the authorization of the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if it was exempt from authorization. The Investment Code provides various facilities and benefits for approved foreign investments in Senegal. Special facilities for export industries are established in the Dakar export processing zone. Including investments made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Senegal and those made by overseas branches or subsidiaries of companies in Senegal. including those made by companies in Senegal that are di- rectly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Senegal. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL 427 Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Senegal. Imports and exports of gold (gold jewelry and gold materials) from or to any other country require prior authorization from the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning. Ex- empt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold- plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by trav- elers of gold articles up to a combined weight of 200 grams. Brokers in precious metals require au- thorization from the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning to conduct their business. Imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Purchases abroad of nonmonetary gold by brokers are subject to a 25 percent ad valorem tax. Commercial imports of gold jewelry require prior import authorization from the Minister of Industry, Commerce, and Handicrafts; imports of ornaments require the prior advice of the Directorate of Handicrafts and the Directorate of Foreign Trade of the Ministry of In- dustry, Commerce, and Handicrafts. Changes During 1991 Imports and Import Payments November 14. A merchandise import inspection program was introduced (Decree 91-1221). Inspec- tion would cover quality, quantity, price, and tariff classification of the goods imported into Senegal; subsequently, the inspection program was modified to cover all imports into Senegal exceeding values ( f .o .b .) of CFAF 1.5 million. November 28. The requirement of bank domidliation for import transactions exceeding values (f.o.b.) of CFAF 500,000 was introduced (Circular No. 278/MEFP). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SEYCHELLES (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Seychelles is the Seychelles Rupee, which is pegged to the SDR at SR 7.2345 per SDR 1. Exchange rates for various currencies (in- cluding the pound sterling, the intervention cur- rency) are quoted on the basis of their New York closing rates for the U.S. dollar on the previous day, using the U.S. dollar rate for the Seychelles rupee as derived from the fixed parity to the SDR. The Cen- tral Bank of the Seychelles circulates these rates daily to the commercial banks. On December 31, 1991, the buying and selling rates of the Central Bank for the pound sterling were SR 9.4639 and SR 9.5587, respectively, per £ stg. 1. The Central Bank charges a commission of 0.125 percent on pur- chases and 0.875 percent on sales of pounds sterling and U.S. dollars. The commercial banks are autho- rized to deal in pounds sterling and other curren- cies at rates based on the exchange rates circulated daily by the Central Bank for the respective curren- cies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk in the official or the commercial banking sector. Seychelles formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from January 3, 1978. Administration of Control and Prescription of Currency There is no exchange control, and there are no prescription of currency requirements. The Minis- try of Finance exercises control over foreign trade and domestic marketing through a mechanism of import and price controls. Import controls are ex- ercised over prescribed goods by the Trade and Commerce Division of the Ministry of Finance, while price controls are administered by the Seychelles Licensing Authority on behalf of the Ministry. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Imports and Import Payments No restrictions are placed on payments for im- ports. Importers are required to obtain import li- censes f rom the Seychelles Licensing Authority and to apply for import permits from the Import/Export Control section of the Ministry of Finance. Certain essential items (including sugar, flour, oil, mar- garine, rice, and animal feed) can be imported only by the Seychelles Marketing Board. Most imports are subject to the trade tax, at rates ranging from 10 percent to 375 percent (with the bulk of imported commodities falling in the range of 10 percent to 50 percent). Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invis- ibles, and no limits are imposed on the provision of travel exchange. Travelers may take or send out of Seychelles any amount of foreign currency and up to SR 100 of domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports normally require licenses, which are is- sued by the Import/Export Section of the Ministry of Finance. Exports of fish are controlled by the Seychelles Marketing Board to ensure stability in markets and prices. Residents may export goods without exchange control formality to any country except South Africa. There are no regulations gov- erning the repatriation of export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be dis- posed of freely. However, trading in foreign curren- cies by persons other than authorized dealers is prohibited (trading is defined as both buying and selling). Foreign currency may be accepted by busi- nesses in payment for goods and services. Foreign currency so purchased, however, may only be dis- posed of through authorized dealers. Overseas visi- tors may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenditure. Capital Transfers of overseas-owned capital are allowed without restriction. Nonnationals are permitted to repatriate their surplus earnings without limitation. Investment outside Seychelles by permanent res- idents and by companies and other organizations operating in Seychelles is not subject to any limita- tions. Foreign investment (whether portfolio, direct investment, additional investments in existing en- tities in the form of loans, or equity capital) is not restricted, provided that commercial and manufac- turing investments conform to a minimum equity contribution of 30 percent of capital investment. 428 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SEYCHELLES 429 Commercial banks in Seychelles are required to restrict credit to nonnationals primarily for working capital purposes and generally to an amount not in excess of overseas funds invested in Seychelles in enterprises in certain priority sectors, that is, agri- culture and fishing, manufacturing, construction, and tourism. In addition, penalty loan rates are imposed on credit secured by foreign assets. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, but dealings in gold bullion are restricted to authorized dealers. Seychelles has issued the fol- lowing commemorative gold coins, which are also legal tender: (1) two coins issued by the Currency Board (1976) in the denominations of SR 1,500 and SR 1,000; (2) a coin in the denomination of SR 20 to commemorate the fifth anniversary of the Central Bank in December 1983; (3) a coin in the denomina- tion of SR 25 to mark the World Fisheries Conference of the Food and Agriculture Organization issued in April 1984; (4) a coin in the denomination of SR 500 to commemorate the United Nations Decade for Women issued in February 1986; (5) a coin in the denomina- tion of SR 1,000 to mark the tenth anniversary of Seychelles' independence issued in June 1986; (6) a coin in the denomination of SR 1,000 to commemorate the tenth anniversary of the fifth of June 1977 Libera- tion issued in June 1987; (7) two coins in the de- nominations of SR 100 and SR 1,000 to mark the tenth anniversary of the Central Bank issued in Decem- ber 1988; and (8) a coin in the denomination of SR 500 to mark EXPO '90 in Osaka, Japan, issued in April 1990. Changes During 1991 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sierra Leone is the Sierra Leo- nean Leone. Since April 25, 1990, exchange rates have been freely determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the market. Commercial banks and licensed foreign exchange bureaus may buy and sell foreign exchange with customers and trade among themselves or with the Bank of Sierra Leone (central bank) on a freely negotiable basis. The central bank determines the official exchange rate every week based on the weighted-average rate of the commercial bank transactions for customs valuations and official transactions. Before the intro- duction of the new system, the exchange rate was pegged to the U.S. dollar at Le 120 per US$1. On De- cember 31,1991, the official buying and selling rates were Le 428.64 and Le 435.24, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is formulated by the Min- istry of Finance, in consultation with the central bank, but the day-to-day administration of ex- change control is carried out by the central bank with the assistance of the commercial banks. Ap- plications for foreign exchange for invisible pay- ments in excess of certain amounts are subject to the approval of the central bank. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Transactions with certain countries are subject to exchange control. Certain settlements with China must be channeled through clearing accounts es- tablished under a bilateral payments agreement. Payments for imports f rom other countries may be made in leones to the credit of an external account in the currency of the exporting country, in pounds sterling, or in U.S. dollars. The West African Clear- ing House provides for settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (for Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote dTvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) and with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea- Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, and Nigeria. Re- ceipts from exports to countries other than China may be obtained in leones from an external account in the currency of the importing country or in any specified currency.1 Sixty percent of proceeds from exports of coffee and cocoa must be surrendered to the central bank. Licensed exporters of diamonds are required to surrender 20 percent of their export proceeds to the central bank; the conversion into leones is effected at the most favorable exchange rate quoted by a commercial bank in the previous week. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents are permitted to maintain foreign cur- rency accounts denominated in any convertible cur- rency with a commercial bank in Sierra Leone. These accounts, for which no minimum balance has been stipulated, earn interest at a rate determined by the commercial banks. They may be credited with funds transferred from abroad and may be debited to meet local expenditures of the account holder. Transfers abroad of balances in foreign cur- rency accounts are permitted for current transac- tions without prior approval from the central bank. Accounts in leones held with authorized banks in Sierra Leone on behalf of diplomatic missions, UN agencies, and their accredited staff are designated as external accounts. In addition, there are blocked accounts, to which funds due to nonresidents that may not be remitted abroad are credited. Imports and Import Payments Imports of all goods originating from South Af- rica are prohibited. All other goods may be im- ported freely without a license. Authority to ap- prove transactions is delegated to the commercial banks. All applications for purchases of foreign ex- change for the importation of goods must be sup- ported by a pro forma invoice and should be submit- ted to a commercial bank in Sierra Leone. The importation of goods financed with importers' own foreign exchange resources without letters of credit established with a local commercial bank has been permitted since May 23, 1988. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por- tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 430 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE 431 Effective November 5, 1990, all goods imported into Sierra Leone, except petroleum and those goods specifically exempted by the Minister of Fi- nance, have been subject to preshipment inspection and price verification by an international company appointed by the Government. Imports are subject to an invoice entry fee of 2.5 percent and an import inspection fee of 2 per- cent, both of which are calculated on the c . i .f. value of the imports; the fees for imports from the mem- ber countries of the Economic Community of West African States are one half of these rates except for the import inspection fee. Fees are payable at the time of importation. A sales tax of 10 percent of the landed value is levied on all imports. Payments for Invisibles Authority to provide foreign exchange for legiti- mate expenses is delegated to the commercial banks. Applications for basic travel allowance in excess of $1,000 for an adult must be referred to the central bank for approval. A travel tax of 10 percent is levied on the price of tickets purchased locally and is payable when the ticket is purchased. Commercial banks are authorized to approve school fees up to the full amount payable directly to the school upon presentation of bills by the schools concerned. They may also approve, for each student studying abroad, educational and maintenance ex- penses of $600 a month or $3,600 for six months, and medical treatment up to $3,000. Applications for payments in excess of the amounts prescribed must be made to the Bank of Sierra Leone for approval. A maximum of 40 percent of an expatriate's gross salary may be remitted abroad for family mainte- nance purposes. At the end of their contract, for- eigners are allowed to remit all of their savings. Profits and dividends from foreign direct invest- ment may be repatriated, provided that it can be established from documentary evidence that capital was originally brought into the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses are required only for exports of gold and diamonds; these export licenses, valid for 12 months, are issued by the Ministry of Mines. All exporters are required to complete CD2 fo rms, which should be endorsed by the expor- ter's commercial bank and be reported to the cen- tral bank. Commercial banks are responsible for collecting the export proceeds as indicated on the CD2 fo rm s. Exports of the following articles are prohibited: those containing more than 25 percent silver; those m anu f a c tu r ed or produced more than 75 years be fo re the date of exportation; those mounted or set with diamonds, precious stones, and pearls (excluding personal jewe lry or orna- ments up to a value not exceeding the leone equiv- alent of $1,000); postage stamps of philatelic inter- est; and works of ar t. Licensed exporters of diamonds are allowed to transact their business in U .S. dollars and are required to su r render 20 per- cent of their export proceeds to the central bank .2 They must also pay a 2.5 percent levy on the value of diamonds exported. Exporters of coffee and cocoa are required to sur- render 60 percent of their export proceeds to the central bank and the rest to a commercial bank in Sierra Leone (of the exporter's choice). All goods exported from Sierra Leone, except those exempted by the Minister of Finance, are subject to preship- ment inspection and price verification, which is un- dertaken by an inspection company appointed by the Government. Exporters who are subject to in- spection pay an export inspection fee of 2 percent before clearing their goods through customs. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 1) must be offered for sale to an autho- rized bank within three days. The importation of domestic bank notes is limited to Le 2,500 for each traveler. Residents receiving foreign currencies or entering Sierra Leone with foreign exchange must exchange these currencies for domestic currency at a commercial bank within three days. Capital Capital payments to nonresidents of Sierra Leone are subject to exchange control. Residents of Sierra Leone are required to obtain permission from the central bank to purchase foreign currency securities or real estate situated abroad. Investments by non- residents, including profits, may be repatriated at any time, provided that exchange control approval of the investment was obtained at the outset. The Sierra Leone Exchange Control Act of 1954 imposes control on the issue and transfer of se- curities. The placing of an issue in Sierra Leone requires permission if either the person acquiring the securities or the person for whom he serves as nominee resides outside Sierra Leone. Permission must also be obtained before a security registered in 2This surrender requirement was abolished on January 1, 1992. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 432 SIERRA LEONE Sierra Leone may be transferred to a nonresident. Capital in respect of securities registered in Sierra Leone may not be transferred abroad without per- mission. Where permission has been given for se- curities registered in Sierra Leone to be sold to per- sons residing abroad, the company is usually required to obtain bank certification of the funds brought into Sierra Leone. The Development Ordi- nance of 1960 and the Development of Industries Act of 1983 provide for income tax and customs duty concessions to foreign and domestic companies un- dertaking industrial or agricultural activities that are needed for the development of the country. Noncitizens are prohibited from owning or control- ling certain types of business. Residents of Sierra Leone must either sell their fore ign exchange holdings to an authorized dealer or hold a fore ign currency account with a commer- cial bank in Sierra Leone. Exemption is gran ted for authorized dealers, diplomats, and holders of sterling assets held before June 24,1972, for which exemption has been claimed and granted by the central bank. Exempted securities may be sold outside the fo rmer Sterling Area, and any income the re f rom may be retained in the fo rmer Sterling Area or reinvested in other Sterling Area se- curities. Any cer t if ica te of securities purchased with the proceeds of the sale of securities ex- empted under this permission is exempt f rom de- posit requ iremen ts. Any assets held outside the fo rmer Sterling Area by any foreign national tem- porarily residing in Sierra Leone are also exempt f rom surrender and deposit requirements, pro- vided that exemption has been claimed and gran ted by an authorized dealer or by the cen tral bank. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sierra Leone for numismatic purposes. Also, residents and nonresidents may freely pur- chase, hold, sell, or export certain Sierra Leonean commemorative gold coins. Residents are not al- lowed to hold gold in the form of bars or coins. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry con- stituting the personal effec ts of a traveler require individual import licenses, which are not normally granted. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement November 4. Licensed foreign exchange bureaus were authorized to conduct spot foreign exchange transactions with customers at a freely negotiated rate. Foreign exchange bureaus applying for operat- ing licenses were required to be duly registered in Sierra Leone and to maintain a deposit of $25,000 in an account with a commercial bank in Sierra Leone. Administration of Control August 26. Exchange Control Form "M," which required Sierra Leonean residents to surrender their foreign currency holdings within three days of their arrival in Sierra Leone, was abolished. Resident and Nonresident Accounts November 5. Restrictions on the use of foreign currency accounts for current transactions were re- moved. Deposits to, and withdrawals from, these accounts for current transactions were permitted without prior approval from the central bank. Exports and Export Proceeds March 19. The 2 percent preinspection fee was waived on cocoa and coffee exports. Proceeds from Invisibles December 1. The requirement that all incoming travelers must declare their foreign exchange hold- ings was abolished. Changes During 1992 Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. The requirement that licensed diamond exporters must sell 20 percent of export proceeds to the central bank was abolished. Exporters were re- quired to pay a 2.5 percent fee on the value of diamonds exported. March 12. Exporters of marine products were no longer required to open letters of credit or surrender their export proceeds to the central bank. The facil- ity for exporters of nontraditional products to retain 100 percent of their export proceeds at the commer- cial banks was reconfirmed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Accounts The currency of Singapore is the Singapore Dol- lar. Singapore follows a policy under which the Sin- gapore dollar is permitted to float, and the exchange rate of the Singapore dollar in terms of the U.S. dol- lar, the intervention currency, and all other curren- cies is freely determined in the foreign exchange market. However, the Monetary Authority of Sin- gapore monitors the external value of the Singapore dollar against a trade-weighted basket of currencies with the objective of maintaining a low and stable domestic inflation rate. The closing interbank buy- ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on Decem- ber 31, 1991 were S$1.6295 and S$1.6305, respec- tively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies are available throughout the working day and are based on their cross rates against the U.S. dollar in inter- national markets. Banks are free to deal in all cur- rencies, with no restrictions on amount, maturity, or underlying transaction. Foreign currency fu tu r es are traded at the Sin- gapore International Monetary Exchange. Banks can hedge their exchange rate risk through a for- ward fore ign exchange transaction. There is an active short-term currency swap market among the banks in the domestic money marke t. Sin- gapore and Brunei currency notes and coins are free ly interchangeable, at par and w i thout charge, in Singapore and Brunei. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Singapore formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from November 9, 1968. Administration of Control There are no exchange control formalities, but the Monetary Authority of Singapore retains responsi- bility for exchange control matters. The Trade De- velopment Board under the Ministry of Trade and Industry administers import- and export-licensing requirements for a very small number of products that are under its control. There is no distinction between accounts of resi- dents and nonresidents of Singapore. Debits and credits to all accounts may be made freely. Imports and Import Payments Very few items imported into Singapore are du- tiable. The highest duties are levied on liquors, to- bacco, petroleum, and motor cars. Other items carry a duty of 5 percent ad valorem. A few imports are controlled for health, safety, or security reasons. Import licenses are required for rice, irrespective of origin, and for all imports originating in, or con- signed from, Albania, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongolia, and Viet Nam. Licenses for imports from the latter countries are subject to a surcharge of 0.5 percent of the c . i . f. value. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange made available for travel abroad. Remit- tances to nonresidents of dividends, interest, and profits may be made freely. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers may take out any amount in foreign or Singapore bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports of Singapore origin, for example, textiles and textile products, are subject to quantita- tive restrictions and other nontariff barriers in the importing countries, particularly the United States, Canada, Norway, and the countries of the European Community. Export licenses are required for gran- ite, sand, timber, and rubber, but there is no restric- tion on export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles need not be surrendered and may be disposed of freely. Resi- dent and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign bank notes and coins, including Singapore gold coins. Prescription of Currency Capital There are no prescription of currency require- ments. There are no restrictions on capital transfers. With the complete liberalization of exchange controls in 433 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 434 SINGAPORE 1978, Singapore residents, including corporations, are allowed to make payments in all currencies to any country outside Singapore without restriction. Resi- dents may invest, borrow, and lend in foreign curren- cies without prior exchange control approval and may deal freely in spot and forward foreign exchange transactions in all currencies. However, banks, mer- chant banks, and finance companies must consult the Monetary Authority of Singapore if they intend to grant loans in Singapore dollars in excess of S$5 mil- lion to nonresidents; loans in excess of S$5 million to residents for use outside Singapore must have the approval of the Monetary Authority of Singapore. Banks in Singapore may freely accept deposits in foreign currencies. Financial institutions that have been approved to operate Asian Monetary Units (AMUs) in Singapore are able to o f fer better rates for foreign currency deposits placed with the Asian Clearing Union because of the absence of minimum cash reserve and liquidity requirements. An AMU is a separate accounting entity of financial institu- tions that enjoy a concessional tax rate of 10 percent on their income; these institutions are prohibited f rom transacting in Singapore dollars. There are no restrictions on investments, whether direct or portfolio, in Singapore by nonresidents or abroad by residents. Income earned by nonresi- dents on funds placed by them with an approved fund manager in Singapore for investment in ap- proved assets is exempted from tax under the Tax Exemption Scheme for Fund Management. Government approval is required for foreigners investing in residential and other properties (in- cluding vacant land) other than those zoned or ap- proved for industrial or commercial use. A foreigner may, however, freely purchase a residential unit within a building of six or more stories and in an approved condominium development without such approval. With regard to other residential proper- ties, foreigners who make an economic contribution to Singapore will be given favorable consideration for purchase of these properties for their own oc- cupation and, in the case of foreign companies, for the accommodation of their senior personnel. The maximum limit on the proportion of foreign share- holding in the local banks is 40 percent. Gold There is a free gold market in Singapore. Both resident and nonresident individuals and com- panies are permitted to import, hold, negotiate, and export gold freely; imports and exports require nei- ther exchange control approval nor import or export licenses, and gold can be dealt with freely by any person in Singapore. Gold can be traded on the spot or fu tu res markets. In the spot market, most of the trading is done on a London basis where delivery of 995 fine gold is made in London; trading also takes place in Kilobar gold with settlement of 999.9 fine gold being made in Singapore, with appropriate adjustments made for the cost of transportation and insurance. A gold fu tures contract is also available on the Singapore International Monetary Exchange. Changes During 1991 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 1992 Imports and Import Payments March 6. The prohibition on imports from South Africa was lifted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOLOMON ISLANDS (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Solomon Islands is the Solomon Islands Dollar, which is issued by the Central Bank of Solomon Islands. The exchange rate for the Sol- omon Islands dollar is determined on the basis of a relationship between the Solomon Islands dollar and a trade-weighted basket of the currencies of Solomon Islands' four major trading partners. The Central Bank may make discretionary adjustments in the exchange value of the Solomon Islands dollar against the U.S. dollar each month within margins of 0.5 percent above or below the middle rate pre- vailing at the end of the previous month. The Cen- tral Bank provides the commercial banks daily with the limits on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in their transactions with the Central Bank and the public. On December 31, 1991, the buying and selling rates quoted by the banks in their dealings with the public were US$0.3538 and US$0.3530, respectively, per SI$1. The commercial banks in Solomon Islands are free to determine their exchange rates for all other foreign currencies. A tax of SI$3 is levied on sales of foreign exchange exceeding SI$3,000. A forward cover facility is mainly for bona fide trade or trade-related transac- tions. Commercial banks may enter into forward con- tracts with permanent residents of Solomon Islands in any currency. However, the Central Bank will provide cover only in U.S. dollars and for periods of one to six months. The Central Bank also provides the commer- cial banks daily with the limits as a percentage of the forward buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar for one to six months for their dealings with the Central Bank. Commercial banks are allowed to apply a mar- gin of up to 10 basis points above or below the Central Bank's forward rates in respect of their U.S. dollar forward contracts with the public. Solomon Islands formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund's Articles of Agreement on July 24, 1979. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank through the Exchange Control (Foreign Ex- change) Regulations, which came into force on March 1, 1977. The Central Bank delegates exten- sive powers to commercial banks, which have been appointed authorized dealers in foreign exchange. The authorized dealers may approve certain types of application for exchange control approval up to specified limits. All persons residing in Solomon Islands are re- garded as permanent residents for exchange control purposes, unless they have been granted temporary resident status by an authorized dealer or by the Central Bank. Applications for temporary resident status are normally approved if the person is a cit- izen of a foreign country and intends to reside in Solomon Islands for a period of less than four years or has resided in Solomon Islands for over four years but who can produce evidence of firm intention to resume permanent residence overseas in the near fu tu re. Ownership of real property (other than dwellings for own occupation) or a business indi- cates permanent resident status, regardless of the duration of residence in Solomon Islands. However, temporary resident status does not release a person from the obligation to comply with all provisions of the exchange control regulations. Prescription of Currency Contractual commitments to persons resident outside Solomon Islands that are expressed in a foreign currency may be met only by payments in that foreign currency. Export proceeds may be re- ceived in any foreign currency or in Solomon Is- lands dollars from an account of an overseas bank with a bank in Solomon Islands. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open nonresident accounts in Solomon Islands dollars with authorized dealers, but approval from the Central Bank is required for the crediting of these accounts from Solomon Is- lands sources. Balances on such accounts may be transferred abroad with the approval of the Central Bank or authorized dealers. Imports and Import Payments No restrictions are placed on payments for im- ports, provided that it can be shown that they are properly due overseas. Authorized dealers are per- mitted to approve most transactions without refer- ence to the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized im- ports are not restricted. Approval is readily given 435 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 436 SOLOMON ISLANDS for payments for services and remittances of divi- dends, profits, and other earnings accruing to over- seas residents from companies in Solomon Islands, provided that it can be shown that they are properly due overseas. Permanent residents are permitted to purchase foreign exchange for payment of all types of invisibles if they provide supporting documents. Transfers by postal order to persons residing per- manently outside Solomon Islands are permitted, provided that the total amount transferred does not exceed SI$100 a week. Approval is normally given for the purchase of foreign currency for travel purposes. Applications for travel funds must be lodged with an authorized dealer, and applicants are required to present their passports and passage or flight tickets. Requests for unusually large amounts of foreign exchange must be referred to the Central Bank.1 Travelers may not take out Solomon Islands currency notes and coins in excess of SI$250 without the approval of the Cen- tral Bank; approval is not normally given. Exports and Export Proceeds Residents may export goods without exchange con- trol formality, provided that they comply with the terms of the General Authority issued by the Central Bank. The essential conditions of this General Au- thority are that payments for exported goods are re- ceived within three months of the date of exportation, that the export price is not less than the price that an exporter might reasonably be expected to receive, and that the proceeds are sold promptly to an authorized dealer. Where exporters are not in a position to com- ply with the conditions of the General Authority, they must apply to the Central Bank for a Specific Au- thority. Authority is not needed for goods under SI$250 in value in any one consignment or for certain exempted categories of goods, including most kinds of personal effects of passengers. Proceeds from Invisibles Approval is required for the disposal of foreign currency proceeds other than by means of a sale to an authorized dealer. Overseas residents visiting Solomon Islands may bring in any amount of cur- rency for travel expenditure. Capital All outward transfers of capital require exchange control approval. All applications for transfers must be referred to the Central Bank. Approval is readily 1With effect from January 20, 1992, these limits were estab- lished at SI$5,000 a transaction, SI$5,000 a customer a week, and SI$25,000 a customer a year. given for the withdrawal of nonresident-owned in- vestment capital, repayment of overseas borrow- ings, and the remittance of temporary residents' and emigrants' funds. New investment abroad by permanent residents or by companies and other organizations operating in Solomon Islands is subject to certain limitations. Direct investment overseas is permitted when it is likely to be of benefit to Solomon Islands. For port- folio investments, central bank approval is needed before the acquisition or disposal of foreign se- curities by a permanent resident. Approval is nor- mally not given for the acquisition of overseas port- folio investments. Restrictions are not normally imposed on the disposal of foreign securities ac- quired before March 1, 1977. Approval from the Central Bank is required for a resident to borrow funds from or to issue equity capital to a nonresident. The Solomon Islands branch of a company or firm incorporated overseas requires approval from the Central Bank before it may borrow funds from a nonresident, including the branch's overseas head office. Where initial or increased foreign investment is concerned, the For- eign Investment Board must also give its approval. Gold Solomon Islanders alone are granted a license to pan for alluvial gold. Commercial banks and all other residents are required to obtain a permit is- sued by the Ministry of Natural Resources to mine, buy, or export gold. The Central Bank is authorized to buy, sell, and hold gold but has not yet under- taken any such transactions. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement January 20. The maximum foreign currency posi- tion of authorized dealers at the close of each busi- ness day was reduced to SI$250,000. Administration of Control January 20. The delegated authorities of authorized dealers were modified, whereby they were allowed to sell foreign exchange to residents only to concurrent limits of SI$5,000 a transaction, SI$5,000 a customer a week, and SI$25,000 a customer a year, and all ap- plications within these limits that are not properly documented or that exceed these limits were required to be referred to the Central Bank. These limits would also apply to the use of credit card accounts. Autho- rized dealers were required to notify the Central Bank of all purchases of inward foreign exchange transfers exceeding SI$100,000 a day. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Somalia is the Somali Shilling, which is pegged to a basket of currencies of Somalia's main trading partners. The official ex- change rate is adjusted weekly to reflect changes in the cross rates of currencies in the basket and the relative rates of inflation in Somalia and its trading partners. The official exchange rate applies to im- ports of goods and services and debt-service pay- ments of the Government. The exchange rate in the free market is negotiated freely between resident holders of foreign exchange accounts, that is, export/import accounts and external accounts. The Central Bank of Somalia carries out transactions in certain other currencies,1 taking into account rates in exchange markets abroad. The official exchange market in Somalia comprises the Central Bank and the two commercial banks operating as the autho- rized dealers of the Central Bank in respect of trans- actions in foreign currencies. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange risk operating in the official sector. The commercial banks also do not conduct forward exchange transactions on behalf of the public, al- though this is not prohibited. Administration of Control The Ministry of Industry and Commerce is the principal government agency concerned with the implementation and operation of trade controls. The state trading organization, the National Grain Agency, is responsible for the importation and dis- tribution of certain commodities received under aid programs. Exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries must be made in Somali shillings or in specified currencies (the U.S. dollar and others listed in footnote 1); however, residents are not permitted to make settlements with Israel or South Africa. Deutsche mark, Djibouti francs, French francs, Italian lire, Kuwaiti dinars, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swiss francs, and U .A .E. dirhams. Nonresident and Foreign Currency Accounts Nonresident accounts in foreign currency and ex- ternal accounts in U.S. dollars may be opened with the Central Bank by foreign embassies, interna- tional institutions, and nonresidents. External ac- counts in U.S. dollars may be opened by both resi- dents and nonresidents with the commercial banks. Such accounts may be credited with foreign ex- change transferred from abroad and may be debited for any external payment. Residents may transfer funds to other external accounts. Funds in such accounts may be used for invisible payments under existing regulations, as well as for merchandise im- port payments. All transactions between residents and nonresidents taking place through these exter- nal accounts are effected at the official exchange rate. Exporters of goods and services may deposit 40 percent of their foreign exchange proceeds from exports into export/import accounts. Funds in such accounts may be sold to importers holding export/ import accounts and may be used only for merchan- dise import payments. Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods originating in or shipped from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of alcohol, tobacco and tobacco products, crude oil and petroleum products, medical and pharmaceuti- cal products, explosives, precious metals and jewelry, and minerals are subject to prior approval. All other items, with the exception of items pro- hibited for reasons of public safety and social policy, may be imported freely. The National Petroleum Agency is responsible for the importation of all fuels and fuel products. The importation and distribution of petroleum products by capable entrepreneurs in the private sector are permitted, provided that they have safe storage and distribution facilities. All payments for private imports must be effected through letters of credit. Private importers may open letters of credit for imports at a commercial bank on the basis of foreign exchange made avail- able for that purpose through a foreign currency account with the commercial bank; in such a case, the foreign exchange involved is kept in a suspense account until the time of settlement of the letter of credit. A non-interest-bearing cash advance deposit of 100 percent is required to open letters of credit for 437 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 438 SOMALIA private sector imports; the deposit is retained until the letters of credit are settled. Funds under the Commodity Import Program funded by the Italian Government are disbursed through a sale mechanism, under which importers submit requests for foreign exchange, to be accom- panied by a 10 percent nonrefundable levy on the amount requested. Before June 1990, the official exchange rate applied to these transactions. If the requests for foreign exchange exceeded the avail- able funds, foreign exchange was allocated propor- tionally among importers. Since then these funds have been sold through a Dutch auction mechanism (bidders purchasing foreign exchange at their bid price), with the official exchange rate serving as the floor price. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Payments for current invisibles through ex- ternal accounts, as well as through the commercial banks selling foreign exchange on their own ac- count, are subject to licensing to prevent unautho- rized capital transfers. Transfers of salaries, wages, gratuities, and allowances paid in Somalia to foreign personnel by enterprises registered under the For- eign Investment Law are allowed up to 50 percent. The Central Bank provides foreign exchange only for official travel expenses. Foreign exchange for private travel expenses may be purchased only from holders of external accounts with the approval of the Central Bank, subject to the following limits: (1) ed- ucation allowances, $1,000 a year; (2) business and tourist travel, $200 a person a trip; and (3) medical treatment, $3,000 a year. The Central Bank may approve applications for larger amounts in excep- tional cases. All foreign travelers are required to pay an airport departure tax of $20 in foreign currency, and Somali nationals are required to pay the tax equivalent to $10 in domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Bananas are exported only by SOMALFRUIT (previously, the National Banana Board). The exportation of various types of ivory, hides and skins, and minerals is subject to prior approval; the state monopoly on exports of hides and skins was discontinued in 1990. All export proceeds must be repatriated. Export- ers of bananas and livestock may retain 40 percent of their foreign exchange receipts in export/import accounts and must surrender the remainder to the Central Bank or to authorized dealers. Exporters of nontraditional goods may retain 70 percent of their export earnings. For exports other than those made under letter of credit arrangements, an advance payment deposit of 100 percent of the value of ex- ports is required. A tax of 25 percent is levied on exports of livestock, on the basis of minimum export prices used for purposes of duty collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are subject to repatria- tion and declaration. Exporters of services may re- tain up to 40 percent of their foreign exchange re- ceipts in external accounts; they must surrender the remainder to the Central Bank or to authorized dealers within five business days of their receipt. Nonresidents may freely bring in with them any amount in foreign exchange and up to So. Sh. 1,000 in Somali bank notes and coins; they must make a currency declaration when entering the country. Nonresident Somalis and foreign national travelers without diplomatic status are required to convert at least $100 or its equivalent to Somali shillings at the airport branch of the Commercial and Savings Bank on behalf of the Central Bank upon arrival. Unspent foreign exchange may be taken out of the country without restriction. Resident travelers may bring in up to So. Sh. 1,000 in Somali bank notes and coins and are obliged, upon arrival, to declare any foreign exchange they bring in and to deposit it in external accounts or sell it to the commercial banks at the official exchange rate upon arrival. Capital Capital transactions are subject to licensing un- less they are authorized by the Foreign Investment Law of February 1960, as amended in January 1977 and May 1987. The amended Foreign Investment Law stipulates priorities for foreign investments in the agricultural, livestock raising, fishing, mining, tourism, and industrial and service sectors. Under this law, investments may be made, apart from transfers of convertible currency, in the form of ma- chinery, equipment, current production inputs, and intangibles (patent rights, trademarks, and studies and documentation prepared in connection with the intended investment). There are no out- right and sectoral restrictions on foreign investment or phase-out provisions, nor does the law preclude the possibility of participating, or acquiring stock, in an existing Somali enterprise. Proposed foreign investment is reviewed for ap- proval in each case within 60 days by the Foreign Investment Board, which has final authority over all matters concerning foreign investment. The For- eign Investment Board is assisted by the Foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA 439 Investment Promotion Office, which provides ad- vice and guidance to the foreign investor on Somalia's legal, regulatory, and institutional framework, and assists at the incorporation and setting-up stages. The original foreign investment and any reinvested profit may be registered in con- vertible currency. There are no restrictions on rein- vestment of profit. Profit is freely transferable, and profit not transferred, or portions of it, may be trans- ferred in any subsequent year. Foreign investment (original investment plus any profit reinvested) can be freely repatriated five years from the date of the registration of the original investment. Repatriation can be effected in convertible currency or, at the investor's option, in the form of physical assets. The Foreign Investment Board may reduce the above- mentioned five-year period. Capital gains resulting from the sale of shares or the liquidation of assets are freely transferable, after payment of normal taxes. The Foreign Investment Law restricts the pos- sibility of expropriation only to cases where public interest cannot be satisfied by measures other than expropriation. In such cases, prompt and freely transferable compensation is payable in an amount that reflects the investment's fair market value as a going concern. Investment disputes are settled in a manner to be agreed upon with the investor, or in the absence of an agreement, under the agreements in force be- tween the investor's home country and Somalia or, in their absence, under the 1985 World Bank Conven- tion for the Settlement of Investment Disputes. If none is applicable, the law provides for resolution by a three-member arbitration board, whose chairman is to be appointed by agreement or, in its absence, by the President of Somalia's Supreme Court. Gold Residents may hold and acquire in Somalia, for numismatic purposes only, gold coins that are not legal tender in any country. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require the permission of the Central Bank; such permission is not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Gold imported by jewelers must be melted down within one month to a fineness of not more than 22 karats. Imports of gold are exempt from customs duty when originating in European Com- munity (EC) countries; imports from elsewhere are subject to a 10 percent duty. Changes During 1991 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of South Africa is the South African Rand. The authorities of South Africa do not main- tain margins in respect of exchange transactions but intervene in the exchange market to affect the rates quoted by the commercial banks for the "commer- cial" rand. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. On December 31,1991, the commer- cial banks' spot rates for the U.S. dollar in transac- tions with the public were US$0.3646 buying and US$0.3644 selling, per R 1. Subject to certain limitations, authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange opera- tions, including cover for transactions by nonresi- dents, on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange. Au- thorized dealers are permitted to provide forward exchange cover in any foreign currency to residents for any firm and ascertained foreign exchange commitments/accruals due to/by nonresidents aris- ing from authorized trade and nontrade transac- tions. Forward exchange contracts may cover the entire period of the outstanding commitments/ accruals. Forward exchange cover may also be pro- vided to nonresidents subject to certain limitations. The Reserve Bank of South Africa provides forward cover in the commercial rand forward market against U.S. dollars only; such cover is given to authorized dealers for maturities not exceeding 12 months at a time in the form of rand-U.S. dollar swap transactions with a margin based on an inter- est rate differential between the U.S. dollar and the rand. Forward cover for periods in excess of 12 months is available at market rates in certain freely transferable currencies for long-term offshore fi- nancing for capital goods imports and for affected indebtedness converted into long-term loans. Gold mining companies/houses may sell forward antici- pated receipts of their fu tu re gold sales. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of for- eign exchange. The freely floating "financial" rand system (with- out the participation of Swaziland) operates with respect to the local sale and redemption proceeds of South African securities and other investments in South Africa owned by nonresidents, capital remit- tances by emigrants and immigrants, and approved outward capital transfers by residents. The ex- change rate for the financial rand is usually at a discount from the commercial rand rate; at the end of 1991, the discount was about 15 percent, and the closing midpoint exchange rate of the financial rand in terms of the U.S. dollar on December 31,1991 was R 0.3153 per US$1. South Africa formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund's Arti- cles of Agreement, as from September 15, 1973. Exchange Control Territory There are virtually no exchange or trade restric- tions between the Republic of South Africa and Bophuthatswana, Ciskei, Lesotho, Namibia, Swazi- land, Transkei, and Venda; these form, with the Republic of South Africa, a single exchange control territory, the Common Monetary Area. Administration of Control Exchange licensing is the responsibility of the Treasury, which has delegated this authority to the Reserve Bank; in turn, the Reserve Bank has dele- gated much of its powers to the authorized dealers. Import and export permits are generally issued by the Director of Import and Export Control acting on behalf of the Minister of Trade, Industry, and Tour- ism. Exchange for licensed imports is made avail- able by the authorized dealers upon proof of ship- ment or, where advance payment is proposed, upon presentation of other documentary evidence, which must include the prior approval of the Reserve Bank.1 Arrears are maintained with respect to certain external payments. Prescription of Currency All countries outside the Common Monetary Area constitute the Nonresident Area. The rand is legal tender in Lesotho but not in Swaziland.2 Set- tlements by or to residents of the Common Mone- tary Area with the Nonresident Area may be made in rand to and from a nonresident account and in any foreign currency.3 1 Authorized dealers can permit, without the Reserve Bank's approval, advance payment of up to 33Vs percent of the ex factory cost of capital goods, if suppliers require it. 2Lilangeni bank notes issued by Swaziland are freely convert- ible into rand, but they are not legal tender in South Africa. Maloti bank notes issued by Lesotho are freely convertible into rand at par, but they are not legal tender in South Africa. 3Foreign currency, foreign exchange, exchange, and specified currency mean any currency other than currency that is legal tender in the Republic of South Africa but exclude the currencies of Lesotho and Swaziland. 440 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA 441 Nonresident Accounts The rand accounts of nonresidents4 are divided into nonresident accounts, financial rand accounts, and emigrant blocked accounts. Nonresident accounts may be credited with all au- thorized payments by South African residents, with the proceeds of sales to authorized dealers in South Africa of foreign currency, and with payments from other nonresident accounts in South Africa. They may be debited for payments to Common Monetary Area residents for any purpose (other than loans); for payments to nonresidents for any purpose, that is, by transfer to a local nonresident account, or for remittance to any country outside the Common Monetary Area; for the cost of purchases of any foreign currency; and for payments to the account holder while residing in South Africa for short periods. Financial rand accounts are the accounts of nonresi- dents of the Common Monetary Area to which ex- change control restrictions have been applied. Such accounts are maintained with authorized banks. They must be credited with the local sale and re- demption proceeds of South African securities and other investments in South Africa owned by non- residents. Immigrants (excluding former South Af- rican residents) arriving on or after September 12, 1990 may, without the Reserve Bank's approval, during the first five years of their residence, intro- duce their capital through the medium of the finan- cial rand. The release locally of up to R 500,000 of these funds per family unit is permitted during the first year of residence, subject to certain restrictions. Dealers on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange are permitted to quote prices for financial rand, and its members are permitted to buy and sell financial rand as agents acting on behalf of nonresidents. Authorized banks are freely permitted to transfer financial rand balances from one financial rand ac- count on their books to another, on their own books, or on the books of another authorized bank. Funds in these accounts may be used freely for reinvest- ment in locally quoted securities (which may be exported and sold abroad) or for acquiring quoted central government, municipal, or public utility stocks. On application and approval, nonresidents may use financial rand to purchase other assets. The local sale proceeds of South African securities held by immigrants before their arrival in South Africa, or acquired abroad within five years of their arrival, are also credited to financial rand accounts. 4A nonresident is a person (that is, a na tural person or legal entity) whose normal place of residence, domicile, or registration is outside the Common Monetary Area. Emigrant blocked accounts are the accounts of emi- grants from the Common Monetary Area to which exchange control restrictions have been applied. They must be credited with any cash held at the time of departure and with the proceeds of any other South African asset held at the time of depar- ture and subsequently sold. Such funds may not be transferred from South Africa or to another emi- grant blocked account in South Africa but may be retained on deposit with an authorized dealer, used within certain limits for the holder's living expenses while visiting South Africa, or for other specified payments to residents, or be invested in any se- curities that are quoted locally; such securities may not, however, be exported and sold abroad. Imports and Import Payments Goods subject to import control are listed in Schedule IA of the Import Control Regulations pub- lished on December 23, 1988, as amended. All importers requiring import permits for trade or manufacturing purposes must be registered with the Director of Import and Export Control. The per- mits are valid for imports from any country. Imports free of permit include all goods imported from Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Namibia, Swaziland, and Zimbabwe that were grown, produced, or man- ufactured in these countries, with the exception of a limited range of agricultural products from Malawi and Zimbabwe. An importer is automatically granted exchange to pay for current imports upon presenting to his bank the necessary consignment documents (proof of im- portation) and an import permit where required. Payments are not normally allowed before the date of shipment or dispatch, except with prior approval or special authorization f rom the Reserve Bank (see footnote 1). With certain exceptions, imports are subject to a value-added tax if locally produced goods are also subject to the tax. Import surcharges are levied at varying rates, ranging from 7.5 percent on certain foods tuffs to 40 percent on nonessential goods. Payments for Invisibles Authority is delegated to the authorized dealers to approve certain current payments for invisibles without limitation and for others up to established limits. Applications for amounts in excess of these limits are considered on their merits by the Reserve Bank. For current income payments, such as de- clared dividends, profits, and royalties, that accrue in South Africa, approval is given by the authorized ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 442 SOUTH AFRICA dealers without reference to the Reserve Bank, pro- vided that the relevant royalty agreement was ap- proved by the Department of Trade and Industry and the Reserve Bank and provided that the remit- tance of profits and dividends is based on earnings generated after January 1,1984 and does not involve the use of local credit facilities. Favorable considera- tion is, however, given by the Reserve Bank to such transfers where the use of local credit facilities is not regarded as excessive. Income earned from se- curities held by nonresidents is freely transferable to the owner's country of residence. Limited amounts of exchange to pay for membership fees, family maintenance, and so on, are authorized. The basic allowance for tourist travel in a year is R 17,000 for an adult and R 8,500 for a child under 12 years. Separately, there is an annual basic exchange allocation of R 5,600 for an adult (R 2,760 for a child under 12) for travel to neighboring countries, that is, Angola, Botswana, Malawi, Mozambique, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. In addition to the tourist allowances, authorized dealers may grant al- lowances for business trips overseas at a rate not exceeding R 1,500 a day, with a maximum of R 25,000 in a calendar year. The separate applicable allowance for business trips to the neighboring ter- ritories mentioned above is R 11,000 a year, at a rate not exceeding R 800 a day. Residents leaving South Africa for destinations outside the Common Monetary Area may take the full applicable allowance in foreign bank notes. The amount of South African Reserve Bank notes, how- ever, may not exceed R 500, but this is not regarded as being part of the basic travel allowance. Foreign visitors leaving South Africa may take with them up to R 500 in Reserve Bank notes and any amount of foreign notes that they brought into the country or obtained from the disposal of instruments of ex- change that they brought to and exchanged in South Africa. These limitations on the exportation of notes of the Reserve Bank do not apply to contract workers returning to neighboring countries, who are permitted to take with them reasonable amounts in bank notes. There are no limitations on the exportation of domestic currency to Lesotho, Namibia, and Swaziland. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of specified commodities considered to be in relatively short supply or controlled for strate- gic reasons require export permits to be sold to buyers outside the Southern Africa Customs Union (SACU) (combined areas of Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland). Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be remitted to South Africa and surrendered within six months of the date of shipment or seven days of the date of accrual. To ensure a more effec- tive application of exchange control procedures re- garding the repatriation of export proceeds, except in respect of exports on a cash-on-delivery basis or where the full proceeds are received in advance, exporters are required to cover forward their export proceeds within seven days of shipment. Authorized dealers may permit exporters to grant credit up to 12 months, provided the credit is neces- sary in the particular trade or needed to protect an existing export market or to capture a new export market. Exporters benefit from an incentive scheme, under which they receive a payment that is based on the f .o .b. value of exports of the local content of products, the extent of processing in- volved, and the movement in the real effective ex- change rate in terms of a basket of currencies of South Africa's major trading partners since Jan- uary 1979. Company income tax rebates associated with expenditures on overseas market develop- ments are permitted up to 20 percent of current export turnover until March 31, 1992. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered within seven days of the date of accrual, unless exemption is obtained. Upon entry from countries outside the Common Monetary Area, residents and nonresidents may bring in R 500 in South African Reserve Bank notes. There are no limitations on the importation of domestic currency from Lesotho, Namibia, and Swaziland. Capital5 All inward loan transfers require specific ap- proval,6 whereas inward transfers for investment in equity capital are freely permitted. Foreign ex- change accruing to residents from capital transfers Securities are defined as including not only quoted stocks, shares, debentures, and rights, but also unquoted shares in public companies, shares in private companies, government, municipal, and public utility stocks, nonresident-owned mort- gage bonds, and participations in mortgage bonds. The terms "scrip" and "share certificates" include any temporary or sub- stitute documents of title, such as letters of allotment, option certificates, balance receipts, and any other receipts for scrip. 6Approval is generally given for borrowing abroad with a maturity of at least six months by domestic entrepreneurs, ex- cept for speculation or consumer credit. Authorized dealers are generally permitted to raise funds abroad in their own names to finance South African foreign trade and for other approved purposes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA 443 and transactions must be surrendered. Outward transfers of capital by residents to destinations out- side the Common Monetary Area require the ap- proval of the Reserve Bank. Local borrowing by nonresident-owned or nonresident-controlled firms is subject to limitation. Transfers by residents for the purchase of South African (or other) shares on for- eign stock exchanges are generally not permitted (except in amounts not exceeding R 5,000 through financial rand for each shareholder, to allow South African residents to exercise rights arising from ex- isting holdings of shares in foreign companies quoted only on foreign stock exchanges), although South African stockbrokers may engage in arbitrage transactions in securities, subject to certain condi- tions designed to prevent any net outflow of exchange. Nonresidents are not allowed to use financial rand to purchase farms and residential properties. Applications by South African residents to retain funds in, or transfer them to, countries outside the Common Monetary Area for bona fide long-term investment in specific development projects or for the expansion of existing projects that are owned or controlled by South Africans are considered by the Reserve Bank on their merits. Investments de- signed to foster exports and maintain or expand markets abroad are normally viewed favorably. Immigrants are required to furnish the exchange control authorities with a complete return of their foreign assets and liabilities at the time of their arrival. Any foreign assets transferred to South Africa may, through the same channel, be retransferred abroad within the first five years after arrival. The proceeds of the sale of quoted or unquoted South African securities, real estate, and other equity investments by nonresidents of South Africa to resi- dents must be credited to financial rand accounts and are accordingly transferable through this medium. Emigrant families are entitled to the normal travel allowance at the rate for commercial rand and are permitted to transfer up to R 200,000 (R 100,000 for single persons) through the medium of financial rand. Any balance exceeding the permissible trans- ferable amount must be credited to an emigrant blocked account. Up to R 300,000 of income earned by emigrants may be transferred through normal banking channels or credited to a nonresident ac- count. Any balance exceeding the permissible transferable amount must be credited to a financial rand account; the total net income earned from such an account is eligible for transfer in addition to the R 300,000 mentioned above. An emigrant family or an individual can export one motor vehicle, with a maximum value of R 75,000, provided that it was purchased at least one year before emigration, and can export other household and personal effects up to a value of R 75,000 for each family, provided that such goods, other than clothing, have been in the emigrant's possession for at least one year. Favorable consideration is given for the transfer by nonresident-owned branches and subsidiaries of open or approved loan account balances,7 current profits earned after January 1, 1984, and dividends declared on profits from trading generated after January 1, 1984, provided that the remittance does not involve the excessive use of local credit facilities. The physical exportation from South Africa of nonresident-owned securities is permitted, except by emigrants. Gold Residents of South Africa may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in South Africa for numismatic and investment purposes. With this exception, resi- dents of South Africa other than the monetary au- thorities, authorized dealers, registered gold pro- ducers, and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. All exports of gold require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. The approval authority has been del- egated to authorized dealers in respect of exports of jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler up to a value of R 40,000 (subject to a written decla- ration to the e f fect that the jewelry will be brought back to South Africa on the traveler's return); and in respect of exports of gold jewelry by manufacturing jewelers (except for exports to Botswana, Malawi, Zambia, and Zimbabwe), subject to a written decla- ration that the articles are in fully manufactured form and that the gold content of each does not exceed 80 percent of the selling price to the ultimate consignee. Furthermore, af ter reference and ap- proval by the Reserve Bank, residents are allowed to export currency coins, including certain gold coins, for sale to numismatists. The gold mining industry must sell its output to the Reserve Bank, which has been nominated as agent for the Treasury, within one month of production. With effect from Octo- ber 1987, the Reserve Bank pays the gold mines in U.S. dollars for their sales of production. As a spe- cial concession, the industry may retain approx- imately one third of its production for the minting of gold coins and kilo bars. The Mint strikes gold coins and the Krugerrand, which are legal tender, without a face value, and 7Subject, however, to the standstill arrangements, where applicable. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 444 SOUTH AFRICA these are made available in limited numbers to the local market. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement September 1. The special rand forward cover facil- ity of the Reserve Bank at preferential rates was abolished. Payments for Invisibles October 1. The limits on travel allowances were raised as follows: (1) annual allowance for tourist travel for an adult, to R 17,000 from R 15,000 (for a child under 12 years of age, to R 8,500 from R 7,500); (2) annual allocation for travel to neighboring coun- tries (Angola, Botswana, Malawi, Mozambique, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe) for an adult, to R 5,600 from R 5,000 (for a child under 12 years of age, to R 2,760 from R 2,500); (3) allowance for business trips, to R 1,500 a day from R 1,200, with an annual maximum to R 25,000 from R 22,500; and (4) allowance for business trips to the above- mentioned neighboring countries, to R 800 a day from R 750, with an annual maximum to R 11,000 from R 10,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Spain is the Spanish Peseta. Spain participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and the United Kingdom in the exchange ra te and intervention mechanism (ERM) of the Eu ropean Monetary System (EMS) .1 In accordance with this agreemen t, Spain main- tains the spot exchange ra tes between the Spanish peseta and the currencies of the other par t ic ipan ts within margins of 6 percent ( for the pound ster- ling and the Portuguese escudo, also 6 percent, and for the remaining currencies, 2.25 percent) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Bank of Spain (the cen tral bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in un- limited amoun ts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1991, these ra tes were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates per: Spanish Pesetas Upper limit Lower limit 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 deutsche mark 100 French francs 1 Irish pound 1,000 Italian lire 100 Netherlands guilders 1,000 Portuguese escudos1 1 pound sterling 1 Effective April 6, 1992. 334.619 1,809.40 6,901.70 2,057.80 184.892 92.2400 6,125.30 793.850 203.600 296.802 1,604.90 6,121.70 1,825.30 163.997 81.8200 5,433.10 704.130 180.590 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper func- tioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the inter- vention currencies being each other's, the U.S. dol- lar, and the ECU. JW i th e f fect from April 6, 1992, Portugal participates in the ERM of the EMS. Official rates for specified currencies2 are quoted on the basis of market rates and are published daily. On December 31, 1991, the rate for the U.S. dollar was Ptas 96.69 per US$1. Authorized banks are allowed to operate in for- eign markets for spot and forward transactions. All fu tu re transactions involving an identifiable ex- change risk are eligible for forward cover. There are no limits on periods to be covered. There are no limits on forward or spot foreign currency positions of individual banks, except those stemming indi- rectly from prudential rules on maximum net for- eign exchange exposure. Under existing regula- tions, consolidated net foreign exchange exposure must not exceed a percentage of the consolidated own resources of each banking group that is deter- mined by the Bank of Spain. Spain formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as of July 15, 1986. Exchange Control Territory The Peninsular Territories of the Spanish State, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Ceuta, and Melilla constitute a single exchange control territory. Administration of Control The Ministry of Economy and Finance, through the Directorate-General of External Transactions, handles exchange control regulations, including those pertaining to trade and invisible transactions, foreign investment, investment abroad by Spanish residents, and domestic borrowing by foreigners. The Bank of Spain handles the foreign exchange market (both spot and forward), regulates and su- pervises commercial banks' activities, and is re- sponsible for all nontrade foreign borrowing (both short-term and long-term) by domestic residents. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transac- tions and invisibles may be made in convertible 2Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, European Currency Units (ECUs), Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swed- ish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 445 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 446 SPAIN pesetas or in any of the currencies specified in footnote 2, but they are usually made in the cur- rency of the country of origin or destination. Nonresident Accounts As of December 1985, accounts affected by the regulations on nonresident accounts are, in addition to foreign currency accounts, either convertible ac- counts or ordinary accounts. Convertible peseta accounts may be credited with the proceeds of foreign currency sold by nonresi- dents in the Spanish foreign exchange market, with authorized payments made by residents to nonresi- dents as a result of any balance of payments transac- tions, with accrued interest on such accounts, and with transfers from other such accounts. Convert- ible peseta accounts may be debited for purchases of equivalent amounts of foreign currency and bank notes in the Spanish foreign currency market, for authorized payments in pesetas to residents as a result of any balance of payments transaction, for cash drawings by nonresidents, and for transfers to other peseta accounts. Convertible peseta balances are subject to a reserve requirement. Balances in convertible peseta accounts are eligible for forward cover in the forward exchange market in Spain. Ordinary peseta accounts (Royal Decree 1723/85 and Resolution of December 20, 1985) can be credited freely. Balances in such accounts, which are not convertible, may be utilized to cover tourist ex- penses in Spain, as well as investments that can qualify as foreign investments; transfer rights for such investments, financed by ordinary pesetas, are not restricted provided that certain conditions are fulfilled (for example, proof of the legal origin of the funds deposited and verification by the Directorate-General of External Transactions). Earn- ings on these accounts can be transferred abroad freely. Imports and Import Payments As a general rule, imports may be made freely into Spain. However, imports of certain goods (for example, tractors, explosives, seed oil, and gold) are subject to authorization by the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade, irrespective of the country of origin or when imported from specific geographical areas (with distinctions being made between Euro- pean Community (EC) countries, European Free Trade Association (EFTA)-Mediterranean and ACP3 countries, General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 3African, Caribbean, and Pacific state signatories to the Lome Convention with the EC. (GATT) member countries, and state trading coun- tries). Since June 1989, the requirement of import domiciliation has been removed. Foreign exchange in the appropriate currency to pay for authorized imports is granted freely. Payments for Invisibles Commercial banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange freely for listed current invisibles, pro- vided that the request is supported by appropriate documents to verify the authenticity of the transac- tion. Nonresident holders of Spanish securities may freely transfer abroad accrued interest, dividends, and proceeds from the disposal of subscription rights. Purchasers of securities bought with internal pesetas must hold them for three years to qualify to transfer abroad the proceeds from the liquidation of such securities. Profits and dividends on direct in- vestments and rents on nonresident-owned real es- tate are freely transferable abroad. A general license permits the reinsurance abroad of risks insured in Spain with Spanish firms or with foreign insurance companies operating in Spain. Unless special au- thorization is otherwise granted, insurance con- tracts abroad are restricted to cover for exports and imports of goods and related operations. Most payments may be made without supporting documents. There are no limits on foreign exchange purchases for tourism (the maximum limit on for- eign exchange allowances was removed in March 1987). However, the exportation of bank notes or coins in excess of the equivalent of Ptas 350,000 in foreign currency and in excess of Ptas 100,000 in domestic currency must be reported and requires the prior approval of the Directorate- General of External Transactions. The proceeds from the liquidation of nonresident investments and capital are freely transferable abroad, provided that these investments have been duly registered at the Registry of Foreign Invest- ment (Registro de Inversiones Extranjeras). Exports and Export Proceeds As a general rule, exports may be made freely. However, exports of a limited number of goods (for example, textiles, steel, and some copper by- products) require prior authorization from the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade, irrespective of the destination or when exported to certain geo- graphical areas (with distinctions being made be- tween EC countries, Portugal, and third countries). Exporters may maintain up to 100 percent of ex- port proceeds in foreign exchange accounts with resident banks or banks abroad. The balance may be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN 447 used by the account holder subject to exchange control regulations. Proceeds from Invisibles All foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles must be sold in the exchange market through autho- rized banks within 15 days of receipt.4 Capital For most foreign direct investments effected through participation in Spanish companies, prior verification is required only if participation exceeds 50 percent. Irrespective of the size of companies, such investments need to be communicated to the Directorate-General of External Transactions for verification if they exceed Ptas 250 million, and can be considered approved if no response is received af ter 30 days. Special authorization is required for foreign investment in strategic sectors (such as defense-related industries, strategic minerals, and telecommunications services) and in television, ra- dio, air transport, and gambling, except for nonresi- dents of EC countries, who must comply with EC provisions. EC residents are allowed to operate freely in all of these sectors, except in defense- related industries. Acquisition of branches by companies must be communicated to the Directorate-General of Exter- nal Transactions for verification only if the investor is a legal entity. Nonresidents may freely purchase any kind of financial assets, except commercial papers. All types of commercial credit may be contracted with- out restriction. The contracting of medium-term suppliers' credits with nonresident EC nationals re- quires prior administrative verification, and the con- tracting of other types of suppliers' credits is subject to prior authorization. Individuals and juridical persons residing in Spain may freely negotiate financial loans in foreign currency or convertible pesetas, subject to com- pliance with the following conditions: (1) the amount of the loan does not exceed Ptas 1.5 billion; (2) the average maturity of the loan is at least three years, starting from the date of the first disburse- ment (foreign currency borrowing with shorter ma- turity is subject to authorization); (3) the loan is denominated in one of the convertible foreign cur- rencies quoted on the Spanish foreign exchange market or in convertible pesetas and will remain in that currency until maturity; and (4) the resident 4With e f fect from April 19,1991, all foreign exchange proceeds were allowed to be maintained in foreign accounts. borrower is not a Spanish branch of the nonresident lending institution. Loans may be freely amortized three years af ter the date of disbursement. The bor- rower may, at any time, transfer the domiciliation of the loan to another authorized institution, in which case, at the request of the borrower, the current authorized institution of domiciliation must trans- mit directly to the new bank of domiciliation the original Bank of Spain document on which all move- ments of funds effec ted through that institution are recorded. Purchases of financial or commercial claims that are not negotiable on the Spanish Stock Exchange by nonresidents are subject to approval. Direct investments abroad by residents are permit- ted freely. Direct investment projects, however, must be communicated to the Directorate-General of External Transactions for verification and statisti- cal control. If no administrative notification is re- ceived within 30 days of submission of the applica- tion, it may be considered approved. Direct investments abroad by residents are defined ac- cording to Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) guidelines, taking into account whether effective control over the foreign company has been obtained. Effective control is deemed to exist if the share of the Spanish invest- ment is at least 20 percent of the foreign company's capital or if the Directorate-General of External Transactions considers that an important or pre- dominant source of influence exists. Direct invest- ments are defined to include participation in a for- eign company, as well as in the increase in its capital; establishment of branches and subsidiaries; and granting of long-term loans, with a view to maintaining or establishing lasting economic links. Direct investments must be carried out within six months, unless an extension is authorized. Rein- vestments of the principal of a previous direct in- vestment in a new direct or liberalized portfolio investment must be undertaken within three months, and require prior verification in the former case (except where the purpose of the new direct investment is identical to that of the previous one). Portfolio investments by residents are defined as the purchase of securities issued by nonresidents (irrespective of the market of issuance) or issued by residents in a foreign market. Securities are defined to include equity, fixed- or floating-rate instru- ments, or participations in investment trusts. Port- folio investments by residents were fur ther liber- alized, and the regulation that transactions not expressly mentioned need to be authorized was phased out in 1990. Residents can purchase abroad without restriction monetary assets, and fu tures and options (on financial and commodities markets) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 448 SPAIN denominated in currencies quoted on the Spanish market. Securities bought on foreign stock ex- changes must be deposited with designated Span- ish financial intermediaries for tax-reporting and withholding purposes. Residents are allowed to maintain accounts denominated in foreign curren- cies at authorized banks. These accounts can be credited freely against the proceeds of the sale of foreign currencies acquired in accordance with ex- change rate regulations or against the peseta. The issuance of securities denominated in foreign currencies in the domestic market is subject to ap- proval. Approval is granted liberally if the securities are listed on the Spanish Stock Exchange. Nonresi- dents may freely purchase foreign securities on Spanish stock exchanges. Such purchases must be reported by authorized banks. Nonresidents are permitted to sell these securities without restric- tion, provided that they purchased them initially with the proceeds from sales of foreign currencies. With the authorization of the Treasury, interna- tional organizations of which Spain is a member may issue securities denominated in pesetas in the domestic capital market, with the proceeds being considered fully convertible. Shares of foreign com- panies may be quoted on the Spanish Stock Ex- change. Financial loans by residents to nonresi- dents require prior authorization from the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Authorized banks are permitted to lend to nonresidents and to open ac- counts in foreign currencies for nonresidents with- out restriction. Proceeds from the sale of real estate may be trans- ferred abroad, provided that they were not financed from ordinary peseta accounts. Proceeds, including capital gains, from the liquidation of shares and bonds may be transferred abroad; however, if the purchase was made with internal pesetas, the owner of the shares must hold them for three years, af ter which he may transfer the liquidation pro- ceeds abroad. The purchase of marketable foreign monetary instruments is not subject to restriction. Gold The acquisition of gold must be authorized by the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade. Imports in the fo rm of bullion are permitted if they are used as raw materials for manu fac tu red goods. Imports of gold in manu fac tu red fo rms ( for exam- ple, coins, medals, e tc .) may be sub ject to quan- titative restrictions, depending on the coun try of origin. Purchases of gold, silver, and platinum ingots are sub ject to a value-added tax at the ra te of 33 percent. Changes During 1991 Nonresident Accounts April 16. The limitations on financial loans in pesetas extended by authorized banks to nonresi- dents were abolished; as a result, the restriction that convertible peseta accounts could not be in a net debit position would no longer apply. Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EC-wide basis during 1991, page 557.) During the year, the EC Commission authorized Spain to exclude certain products originating from China, Hong Kong, Japan, the Republic of Korea, the Philippines, Taiwan Province of China, and the former U.S.S.R. from the application of Article 115 of the Rome Treaty. January 1. Customs tariffs on products from EC- member countries were reduced by 12.5 percent of their 1986 levels. Exports and Export Proceeds April 16. All foreign exchange proceeds were al- lowed to be maintained in foreign accounts. Capital March 15. The 30 percent nonremunerated de- posit requirement that applied to all loans con- tracted by Spanish residents abroad was abolished. April 16. Residents were allowed to maintain ac- counts in foreign currencies in authorized banks, and authorized banks were allowed to grant finan- cial loans to nonresidents without restriction. September 25. The maximum limit on direct for- eign investment abroad was increased from Ptas 25 million to Ptas 250 million. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sri Lanka is the Sri Lanka Rupee, for which the U.S. dollar is the intervention cur- rency. The exchange rate of the Sri Lanka rupee against the U.S. dollar is determined daily in the interbank market in accordance with the daily range set by the Central Bank. Within this range, the Central Bank determines daily the spot buying and selling rates of the U.S. dollar against the Sri Lanka rupee for its transactions with the commercial banks; it purchases and sells the U.S. dollar on a spot basis at the buying and selling rates so estab- lished. On December 30, 1991, the buying and sell- ing rates for the U.S. dollar were SL Rs 42.565 and SL Rs 42.595, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The commercial banks provide a forward ex- change market for commercial transactions in which rates are freely determined. Commercial banks are required to buy forward foreign exchange proceeds from all exporters whenever exports exceed SL Rs 500,000, whether or not exporters avail them- selves of the Central Bank's export refinance facili- ties. They may cover such purchases by selling for- ward to their clients (that is, importers and shipping agents) or to other authorized dealers. The average contract for the sale of foreign exchange to im- porters must not exceed 180 days. Authorized dealers are permitted to quote forward rates for up to 180 days. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Depart- ment of Exchange Control of the Central Bank as agent of the Government. All remittances of foreign exchange in Sri Lanka must normally be made through commercial banks authorized to carry out operations in foreign currencies in accordance with the exchange control procedures prescribed by the Controller of Exchange. Remittances may also be made through post offices, under permits issued by the Controller of Exchange. The Greater Colombo Economic Commission (GCEC) has taken over the approval functions of the Foreign Investment Advisory Committee, which has been abolished, and now handles all applica- tions relating to foreign investments in Sri Lanka. Approval for foreign investment is granted on the basis of the types of activity and the proportion of foreign capital ownership; approval is automatically granted for foreign investment with equity capital ownership of up to 40 percent, except for a small number of activities reserved for citizens of Sri Lanka or regulated by a special law or organization. Prescription of Currency Payments to, and receipts from, member coun- tries of the Asian Clearing Union (that is, Bangla- desh, India, Islamic Republic of Iran, Myanmar, Nepal, and Pakistan) in respect of current transac- tions must be effected in Asian Monetary Units or in the currency of the respective member of the Asian Clearing Union. For settlements with all other countries, pay- ments for imports may be made in any foreign cur- rency or in Sri Lanka rupees. Other payments may be made either in the currency of the country to which the payment is due or by crediting Sri Lanka rupees to a nonresident rupee account. Proceeds from exports must be received either in designated foreign currencies,1 in Sri Lanka rupees from a non- resident account a foreign bank maintains with an authorized dealer, or in any other nonresident ac- count a person maintains with an authorized dealer as approved by the Central Bank. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in Sri Lanka rupees may be held in any commercial bank in Sri Lanka by (1) nonnationals residing outside Sri Lanka; (2) firms and companies registered outside Sri Lanka; (3) Sri Lanka nationals residing outside Sri Lanka, who are classified for this purpose into two categories (those whose current or savings accounts are redesignated as nonresident accounts following their departure, and those whose accounts are opened after their departure); (4) emigrants; and (5) foreign banks. The opening of these accounts for categories (1) and (2), the crediting of the initial and subse- quent deposits arising from inward remittances, and debits for local disbursements may be effected without the prior approval of the Department of 1 Australian dollars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, Nether- lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 449 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 450 SRI LANKA Exchange Control; however, local credits to these accounts and debits for remittances abroad in some instances require its prior approval. The opening and redesignating of accounts in category (3), credits arising from inward remittances, and local credits and debits to such accounts may be effected without the prior approval of the Department of Exchange Control; debits of these accounts for re- mittances abroad require exchange control approval under certain circumstances. Accounts in cate- gory (4) are designated in the first instance as non- resident blocked accounts only when instructions to that effect are received from the Department of Ex- change Control. Local debits to such accounts may be effected without the prior approval of the Depart- ment of Exchange Control; however, local credits to them and debits for outward remittances require its prior approval under certain circumstances. Under category (5), foreign banks may be permitted to open and operate nonresident accounts with a local commercial bank without the prior approval of the Department of Exchange Control. Nonresident blocked accounts are used for hold- ing funds that have not been accepted for transfer abroad, usually funds owned by nonresidents, re- patriates, and emigrants. Authorized dealers are permitted to debit these accounts for local disburse- ments and credit them on account of pensions, in- come tax refunds, and profits and dividends with- out prior approval. Funds in blocked accounts may be invested in any local enterprise without the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Subject to exchange control approval, proceeds from the liqui- dation of such investments can be credited to blocked accounts. Credit balances of nonresident foreign citizens and foreign companies in approved blocked accounts outstanding on March 25, 1991, excluding Sri Lankan citizens who have emigrated or acquired foreign citizenship, are permitted to be withdrawn. In all other cases, remittances of up to a maximum of SL Rs 350,000 are allowed f rom these accounts without the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Remittance of interest accrued to blocked accounts is fully transferable af ter deduc- tion of taxes. Also retained in blocked accounts is a proportion of local currency earnings derived from the exhibition of foreign-owned films; the owner may use such retained funds for certain specified purposes, including the making of films in Sri Lanka. Sri Lanka nationals who are or have been em- ployed abroad and nonnationals of Sri Lankan origin who reside outside Sri Lanka are allowed to maintain nonresident foreign currency (NRFC) ac- counts in Sri Lanka in designated foreign curren- cies.2 Sri Lankans may also open such accounts, within 90 days of their arrival in Sri Lanka, with foreign exchange they brought in or received from abroad. Credits to the accounts are limited to the proceeds of remittances from abroad and money brought into the country by individuals at the time of arrival; in addition, interest payments in these nine convertible currencies may be credited to the accounts. These accounts may be freely debited without exchange control approval for payments abroad or for payments within Sri Lanka (converted to Sri Lanka rupees). Balances on NRFC accounts may be invested in enterprises approved by the GCEC, with exemptions granted under Section 17 of the GCEC Act. Dividends/profits earned and sales proceeds of such investments received in foreign currency may be credited to the NRFC accounts without the prior approval of the Controller of Ex- change. Rupee loan facilities for third parties against NRFC balances are also permitted. Employ- ment agencies that recruit Sri Lankan nationals for foreign employment are also allowed to maintain NRFC accounts to which their commission earnings may be credited. Commercial banks operating in Sri Lanka may establish foreign currency banking units. These units may accept time and demand deposits in any designated foreign currency from nonresidents, resident commercial banks, and any resident that is a GCEC enterprise. They may extend loans and advances in any designated foreign currency to any nonresident, any resident commercial bank, any resident enterprise having GCEC status, any exporter for the purchase of imported inputs, and a few other specified organizations with approval from the Central Bank. In addition, the foreign cur- rency banking units are allowed to accept time and demand deposits from, and grant loans and ad- vances to, any other resident as may be approved by the Central Bank. Foreign currency banking units are also authorized to operate savings accounts. However, accounts allowing the withdrawal of funds by checks are not permitted. Since August 1991, Sri Lankan residents have been permitted to open resident foreign currency (RFC) accounts, with a minimum balance of $500 (or its equivalent), without prior approval and without documentary evidence of customs declarations. Ex- porters of goods and services who have increased their export earnings in foreign exchange over the previous year are permitted to open RFC accounts 2Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA 451 with up to 5 percent of their annual increase, sub- ject to the minimum balance of $500. Imports and Import Payments Except for certain specified imports, no prior li- censing is required. Imports that are subject to prior licensing include those subject to control for se- curity reasons; precious metals; alcohol; apparatus and equipment used in photographic and cin- ematographic laboratories; screens for projectors; multicolored photocopying apparatuses; articles of cement (whether reinforced or not); concrete ce- ment blocks; encasements of industrial waste slugs, slag dress, ash, and residues; other slag and ash, including kelp; fertilizer; drugs and pharmaceuti- cals; aircraft, including aircraft spare parts; motor cars; certain consumer goods; and rice, flour, and wheat grains. As part of the measures introduced under the 1992 budget, a tariff regime consisting of four rate categories was introduced (50 percent, 35 percent, 20 percent, and 10 percent), with three exceptions: cement, 15 percent; spare parts, 45 percent; and passenger automobiles, 200 percent. Certain essen- tial products are exempted from duties at the discre- tion of the Ministry of Finance; these are phar- maceuticals, rice, wheat, flour, and sugar. Specific tar iffs are also levied on several items, including textiles, plastic goods, manufactured garments, printing paper, and locally grown agricultural goods (for example, chilis and potatoes). Imports of specified items3 are restricted to gov- ernment or state corporations; these are referred to as "reserved items/' Prior approval procedures ap- ply to imports of certain capital goods: certain ma- chinery imports relating to foreign investment re- quire the approval of the GCEC, and certain machinery imports relating to local investment re- quire the prior approval of the Local Investment Advisory Committee; no prior approval is required if any single consignment does not exceed SL Rs 700,000. Holders of balances in convertible rupee ac- counts, which were abolished for new credits as of November 16, 1977, may use these funds to pay for certain imports, subject to licensing by the Control- ler of Imports and Exports. Except for imports by export-processing indus- tries and other specified transactions, all other im- ports may be effected only against sight D/P term letters of credit valid for shipment for 180 days. Letters of credit on D/A terms are permitted to be 3These include chilis, onions, wheat, guns and explosives, and certain chemicals and petroleum products. opened in respect of imports for export-oriented industries and other high priority areas for periods ranging from 120 days to 180 days. A 100 percent advance deposit is required to be lodged against letters of credit at a commercial bank for the impor- tation of specified luxury commodities. A stamp duty of 2 percent is levied on letters of credit for other imports (excluding inputs used in export in- dustries) not fully covered by advance deposits. An authorized dealer may, without the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange, approve applications to remit foreign exchange or to credit nonresident accounts against applications for the opening of a letter of credit and against proof of a valid import license, when applicable. These requirements do not apply if the value of a consignment does not exceed $1,000 and if a consignment consists of raw materials and spare parts for industries and is for the direct use of the importer. Such imports should not be in commercial quantities. Payments for Invisibles Certain payments for invisibles require exchange control permission. Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. For travel abroad, residents of Sri Lanka are al- lowed a basic foreign exchange allowance of $400 an adult and $200 a child under 12 years, once every year, for travel to the "Indian group of countries" (defined as Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Myanmar, Nepal, and Pakistan). Additional basic allowances of $2,500 for an adult and $1,250 for a child under 12 years of age are granted once a year for travel to other countries. Additional foreign ex- change is provided to pay for air fares. The prior approval of the Central Bank is not required for these sales of exchange, as this function has been delegated to the banks. Allowances for official travel require a certificate from the head of the relevant institution. Commercial banks may also provide for- eign exchange for business travel when the request is accompanied by a letter from the chairman, direc- tor, partner, or sole proprietor of the company rec- ommending the particular trip abroad, and with confirmation that the cost of the exchange will be borne by the respective business establishment. In such cases, foreign exchange is granted to the direc- tors, partners, and sole proprietors of private com- panies at the rate of $150 a day for the Indian group of countries, and $200 a day for travel to other desti- nations. The rates applicable to the chairmen and directors of public companies are $225 and $300 a day, respectively. Other executives of private com- panies may obtain up to $150 a day for the Indian group of countries and up to $200 a day for travel to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 452 SRI LANKA other countries, and employees of public com- panies may obtain $150 and $200 a day, respectively. Allowances for travel for the purpose of employ- ment are limited to £ 100. Exchange for emergency travel for persons who have already used the basic allowance may be released with the prior approval of the Central Bank in amounts up to Indian Rs 750 for the Indian group of countries and £ 200 for other countries. A special allowance of $600 a person is permitted to pilgrims proceeding to India and Ne- pal on group travel. This facility is permitted to all religious denominations. Business allowances in the form of international credit cards are permitted to the directors and executives of exporting com- panies and to partners and proprietors of export businesses whose turnover exceeds SL Rs 1.0 mil- lion a year. Parliamentarians, public officers, and residents of Sri Lanka who have an annual assess- able income of SL Rs 100,000 and over were permit- ted to be issued international credit cards against their basic allowance. Foreign exchange is granted for medical treat- ment abroad as recommended by a specialist, sub- ject to production of hospital bills. In addition to hospital charges, a monthly living allowance is granted to an accompanying person up to the equivalent of $400 for an adult for the Indian group of countries; the corresponding amount for other countries is $1,500. In addition to the living al- lowance, an incidental allowance up to a maximum of £ 105 is also granted for an accompanying person. Authorized dealers are also allowed to sell foreign exchange for advertising charges and for subscrip- tions and payments to international tourist organi- zations. Payments for other types of travel allowance require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Foreign exchange is granted for education abroad at recognized schools (for studies at and above ordi- nary level), universities, or technical institutes, to cover passage fare, living expenses, tuition fees, and textbooks. For living expenses, foreign ex- change limits are established for (1) undergraduate or professional and technical education, and for (2) postgraduate education, according to four groups of countries. For the Indian group of coun- tries, foreign exchange is made available up to In- dian Rs 8,640 a year and Indian Rs 11,520 a year, for undergraduate and postgraduate studies, respec- tively; for Europe (excluding the United Kingdom and including the former U.S.S.R.), up to £3,120 a year, and £3,840 a year, respectively; for Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, and the United States, up to $7,200 a year, and $8,640 a year, respec- tively; the allowance for living expenses of students proceeding to the United Kingdom was increased during the year from £4,500 to £4,800 a year in respect of undergraduate, professional, and techni- cal studies; from £4,800 to £5,400 a year in respect of postgraduate studies; and for all other countries, from up to $4,320 a year to up to $5,760 a year. A clothing allowance of £150 (or its equivalent in other foreign currency) is allowed once in four years in addition to the above-mentioned amounts. Indian and Pakistani nationals are permitted to remit a maximum of two thirds of their gross monthly income for family maintenance. Foreign technical personnel employed by approved enter- prises may remit up to two thirds of their monthly earnings if their employment contract does not ex- ceed three years, and up to one third if the employ- ment contract exceeds three years. Foreign technical personnel employed in the free trade zone may re- mit up to 90 percent of their monthly earnings. Nationals of Sri Lanka are not granted foreign ex- change for family remittances. Commissions up to 5 percent of the f .o .b ., c. & f., or c . i . f. value, as appropriate, are allowed on export orders secured through agents abroad; commis- sions exceeding 5 percent require specific approval. No remittances for insurance on exports are permit- ted; such insurance could be obtained from a local state insurance corporation or a private insurance company. However, remittances for reinsurance are permitted to foreign reinsurers. Holders of funds in convertible rupee accounts with credit balances outstanding as of Novem- ber 15,1977 may use these funds for travel expendi- tures and other current invisibles without the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Banks are authorized, without prior exchange control approval, to provide foreign exchange for subscriptions to professional institutions, fees in re- spect of foreign examinations held in Sri Lanka, and payments for the importation of material for corre- spondence courses. Profit remittances of nonresident partners of part- nerships in Sri Lanka and remittances of dividends to nonresident shareholders of companies whose financial assets are in rupees may be effected through commercial banks without prior exchange control approval if they relate to the year of applica- tion and do not include undistributed profits of the previous years or reserves of the company. For interim profits, the following documents should be furnished: (1) a certificate from the com- pany's auditors confirming that the amount to be remitted represents profits for the period to which it relates; (2) a preliminary computation of the remit- table profits; (3) a tax clearance (only in the case of a nonresident partner) in respect of the profits to be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA 453 remitted; (4) a certificate confirming that the bene- ficiary resides abroad; and (5) a schedule indicating the names of the beneficiaries and the net amount owed to each. For final profits, the following docu- ments must be submitted: an audited copy of the company's profit and loss account and the balance sheet for the year to which the remittance relates; a certificate from the auditors confirming that the re- mittance represents the final installment of the profits, declared in respect of the year under refer- ence; and a computation of the remittable profits, and also the documents listed in (3), (4), and (5) required for the remittance of interim profits. Remittances of interim dividends can be made, provided that the following documents are submit- ted: (1) certification from the company's auditors confirming that the amount to be remitted repre- sents only dividends for the period to which it re- lates; (2) certification that the remittance constitutes an interim dividend based on the unaudited ac- counts for the period; (3) a certificate confirming that the beneficiary resides outside Sri Lanka; (4) a schedule indicating the names of the beneficiaries and the net amounts owed to them; and (5) docu- mentary evidence from auditors confirming pay- ment of dividend tax. The remittance of a final divi- dend requires the submission of an audited copy of the company's profit and loss account and the bal- ance sheet for the year to which the remittance relates; a certificate from the auditors confirming that the remittance represents dividends only for the period to which it relates; and the documents listed in (3), (4), and (5) required for the remittance of interim dividends. Resident nonnationals may maintain foreign cur- rency accounts with domestic commercial banks in any of ten designated currencies4 without prior ex- change control approval. These accounts must be operated by the domestic unit of the bank and not by its Foreign Currency Banking Unit. The accounts may be current, savings, or deposit accounts, but withdrawal of funds by check is not permitted. Credits to these accounts are limited to inward re- mittances and to amounts in Sri Lanka rupees au- thorized by the Controller of Exchange for remit- tance abroad; debits are limited to outward remittances and to payments in foreign currency converted into Sri Lanka rupees. Unspent rupee balances from foreign exchange sold by nonresident travelers may be reconverted into foreign currency notes and coins only at the exit 4Deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. point (Katunayake Airport/Colombo Port). Recon- version into drafts, telegraphic transfers, or trav- eler's checks may be made at all branches of the authorized dealers as well as at the exit point. For this purpose, the original encashment receipts/ memos issued by the authorized dealers or money changers must be furnished. Foreign passport holders may take out convertible foreign currency equivalent to $5,000 without declaration, irrespec- tive of the number of trips they make. The amount of foreign currency notes that diplomats, other for- eign missions, and their non-Sri Lankan staff travel- ing abroad can take with them is limited to 20 per- cent of their travel expenses. Residents may take out foreign currency notes and coins not exceeding £20 a person (£10 for a child under 12 years) of the exchange authorized for travel. All persons leaving Sri Lanka may take out domestic currency notes not exceeding SL Rs 250 a person. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of the following products require a li- cense: coral shanks and shells, betel leaves, animal foods, minerals and mineral products, metal ores, timber, metal and metal scraps, waste paper and paper boards, passenger motor vehicles, ivory and ivory products, and fertilizers. Exports of betel leaves to Pakistan, Singapore, and the Middle East are handled by three individual firms. The State Gem Corporation exercises quality control over the exportation of gems; the private sector may export gems on a consignment basis with the prior ap- proval of the exchange control authorities. The Cor- poration handles exports in the name of miners who wish to export their gems. Re-exports of nonmone- tary gold, silver, diamonds, and platinum are al- lowed only in special circumstances. Foreign ex- change proceeds from exports must be collected within a period ranging from 21 days to 6 months, depending on the term of payment. Also, all export proceeds exceeding SL Rs 500,000 in value must be sold forward to a local bank. Special arrangements apply to exports made under trade and payments agreements and to exports made to a member coun- try of the Asian Clearing Union. Commercial banks are permitted to grant foreign currency loans from their foreign currency banking units to exporters for the financing of the importation of inputs required for the purpose of executing export orders. This facility is limited to 70 percent of the total value of the confirmed export order. The period of repay- ment of these loans has been extended to eight months from six months. In August 1991, foreign currency borrowing facilities were granted to tea ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 454 SRI LANKA exporters to meet their preshipment credit require- ments up to 75 percent of the invoice value; this facility expired on December 31, 1991. Since November 1991, permission has been granted to certain companies engaged in indirect exports to obtain foreign currency loans for the im- portation of raw materials on the basis of back-to- back letters of credit opened in foreign currency for receipt in domestic foreign payments, including payments from GCEC enterprises. Proceeds from Invisibles Unless otherwise specified, foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered. A traveler entering Sri Lanka must declare his/her for- eign exchange holdings exceeding $5,000, including currency notes and coins. The amount of foreign funds that may be carried into Sri Lanka in the form of travel credit instruments is not restricted. Resi- dents and nonresidents may bring in any amount of nonconvertible currencies after making a declara- tion to customs. A person entering Sri Lanka may bring in domestic currency notes not exceeding SL Rs 1,000. Capital Foreign direct investments are permitted in new projects with or without prior approval from the Controller of Exchange as approved by the GCEC. Proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments in these projects, along with the capital apprecia- tion, may be remitted in full. Investments in shares by nonresidents, up to 40 percent of the equity capital of existing listed public companies, are per- mitted without prior approval from the Controller of Exchange through a share investment external rupee account maintained at a commercial bank. Proceeds from the sale of these shares may be re- patriated automatically, net of tax, if any. Blocked funds held by nonresidents with the approval of the Controller of Exchange in commercial banks are also permitted for investment in approved projects. Sale proceeds of such investments must be credited to blocked accounts. Proceeds from the sale or liquida- tion of other foreign investments in Sri Lanka may be repatriated in full only with prior approval from the Minister of Finance. Investments abroad by residents are not gener- ally permitted unless there is evidence that they will promote the country's exports and generate reason- able profits. Resident-owned securities, on which principal, interest, or dividends are payable (either contractually, or at the option of the holder) in any foreign currency must be declared to the Controller of Exchange, and the sale or transfer of such se- curities is allowed only with the permission of the Controller of Exchange. Companies incorporated abroad are permitted to invest in securities traded at the Colombo Stock Exchange, subject to the same terms and conditions as those applicable to such investments by approved national funds, approved regional funds, and nonresident individuals, in- cluding Sri Lankans residing abroad. Authorized dealers may grant allocations to emi- grants upon presentation of appropriate documen- tation. At the time of departure, emigrants can ob- tain passage to the country of migration by normal direct route and 20 percent of passage fare to cover excess baggage. Exchange equivalent up to £500 an adult and £250 a child under 12 years of age can also be purchased at the time of departure. Personal effec ts up to SL Rs 15,000 and jewelry up to SL Rs 75,000 for each married woman, SL Rs 60,000 for each unmarried woman, SL Rs 30,000 for each female emigrant under 16 years of age, and SL Rs 10,000 for each male emigrant can be ex- ported. The Department of Exchange Control may approve the transfer of pensions in full, or up to £100 a month, including pension and other income, subject to submission of an income tax clearance certificate. Expatriates leaving Sri Lanka for residence in the country of their permanent domicile are permitted •r to transfer assets representing their retirement funds and a reasonable amount of savings. Such persons who have been in business in Sri Lanka are allowed to transfer the capital they originally brought into the country, plus a reasonable amount of savings, subject to certain limits. Special provi- sions, governed by an agreement between Sri Lanka and India, apply to Indian families returning to India. Gold Imports and exports of gold in any form require licenses issued by the Controller of Imports and Exports with the approval of the Central Bank; the latter is the sole importer of gold into Sri Lanka. Commercial imports of jewelry and of other articles containing gold are restricted, except for imports of gold for the production of jewelry for exportation. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement December 10. The Central Bank's daily buying and selling rates for the intervention currency (the U.S. dollar) were quoted within a daily range set by the Central Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA 455 Resident and Nonresident Accounts January 9. Commercial banks were permitted to open nonresident foreign currency (NRFC) ac- counts for Sri Lankan and foreign nationals. March 20. NRFC account holders were permitted to invest funds in enterprises approved by the GCEC in accordance with the exemptions granted under Section 17 of the GCEC Act and to credit profits/dividends earned and sale proceeds of such investments received in foreign currency to NRFC accounts. April 2. Funds in blocked accounts of nonresident foreign citizens and foreign companies, excluding Sri Lankan citizens who have emigrated or acquired for- eign citizenship, and Indian and Pakistan repatriates were permitted to be repatriated in foreign currency. August 1. Residents of Sri Lanka were permitted to open resident foreign currency (RFC) accounts subject to a minimum balance of $500 or equivalent in other designated currencies, without prior ap- proval and without documentary evidence of customs clearance. December 12. Rupee loan facilities for third parties against NRFC balances were permitted. Imports and Import Payments July 12. The ceiling on the importation of goods for the personal use of the importer and for raw materials for industry and for spare parts for ma- chinery (not in commercial quantities) was in- creased to $1,000 (c . i .f. Colombo) from $500. November 12. The rate of stamp du ty on letters of credit was lowered to 2 percent from 2.5 percent. December 11. Authorized dealers were permitted to establish letters of credit on deferred payment (D/P) terms for the importation of goods in respect of high priority areas (for example, export- and development- oriented industries and agriculture) and very essen- tial items (for example, infant milk powder, phar- maceuticals, and education) without prior approval from the Controller of Exchange. Payments for Invisibles March 20. Commercial banks were authorized to remit consultancy, licensing, royalty, and manage- ment fees to foreign firms and individuals in terms of their agreements with local companies. March 20. Authorized dealers were permitted to release foreign exchange for all types of education abroad, except for primary education. March 27. The requirement of a continuous resi- dence period of six months for the eligibility of the basic travel allowance was withdrawn. March 28. A special allowance of $600 a person was permitted for group pilgrimages to India and Nepal; this facility was permitted to all religious denominations. April 4. Commercial banks and authorized travel agents were permitted to approve, on behalf of the Controller of Exchange, purchase of tickets for travel abroad. June 14. Per diem exchange allowances for business/conference travel were increased for chair- men, directors, executives, and other employees in public and private companies. The use of interna- tional credit cards was permitted against travel al- lowances for members of Parliament, government officials, executives in export companies, and in- come tax payers with an annual assessable income exceeding SL Rs 100,000. June 14. Annual travel allowances were increased to $400 for the Indian group of countries. November 1. Annual tourist travel allowances were increased to $2,500 for the non-Indian group of countries. Export and Export Proceeds August 1. Exporters were permitted to credit 5 percent of their incremental export earnings over the previous year to RFC accounts. August 15. Exporters were permitted to borrow from foreign currency banking units to import in- puts up to 75 percent of the value of confirmed export orders. Proceeds from Invisibles March 27. Resident Sri Lankans were permitted to bring in unlimited amounts of nonconvertible curren- cies on arrival in Sri Lanka subject to declaration to customs and to import/export in person foreign cur- rency up to $5,000 or its equivalent in other desig- nated currencies without declaring to customs. May 2. Foreigners arriving in Sri Lanka were per- mitted to bring in foreign currency up to amounts equivalent to $5,000 without declaring to customs. Capital February 20. A Resident Guest Scheme under which foreign investors depositing a minimum amount of $150,000 would be entitled to resident visas was introduced. May 8. Companies incorporated abroad were per- mitted to invest in securities traded at the Colombo Stock Exchange, subject to the same terms and con- ditions as those applicable to such investments by approved national funds, approved regional funds, and nonresident individuals, including Sri Lankans residing abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN (Position on February 29, 1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sudan is the Sudanese Pound. On February 2, 1992, the exchange system consist- ing of the official exchange market (exchange rate of Lsd 15 per US$1), the free market (exchange rate of Lsd 30 per US$1), and the retention market for ex- ports of goods and services was abolished, and was replaced by a unified free exchange market in which the exchange rate for the Sudanese pound is deter- mined in an interbank market by the Union of Banks (Bankers' Association) and quoted uniformly by all commercial banks. On February 18, 1992, the buy- ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in this mar- ket were Lsd 89 per US$1 and Lsd 91 per US$1, respectively. In the unified free exchange market, 23 commer- cial banks (excluding BCCI) and the 3 specialized banks (Agricultural Bank, Estate Bank, and the Sav- ings Bank) are authorized to operate as exchange houses. The Union of Banks, representing all com- mercial and specialized banks, has assigned the determination of the exchange rate to seven bank managers who form the Committee for the Fixing of the Exchange Rate. The committee consists of four members representing public sector commercial banks (managers of Bank of Khartoum, Nilein Bank, Unity Bank, and Sudan Import-Export Bank) and three members representing jointly owned commercial banks (managers of Faisal Bank, Todo- man Bank, and Northern Sudan Bank). The com- mittee announces the daily exchange rate on the basis of the underlying supply and demand de- velopments in the exchange market in the previous day. All proceeds from exports of goods and services must be surrendered to the commercial banks at the unified free exchange rate. In principle, commercial banks are authorized by the Bank of Sudan to sell foreign exchange to be transferred abroad for all purposes. In practice, commercial banks practice informal rationing by making foreign exchange available according to the priorities established by each bank manager. In the case of payments for imports, commercial banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange to licensed traders, except for categories of goods that are on the negative list. The present practice is for com- mercial banks to require 100 percent cash cover be- fore agreeing to the sale of foreign exchange. When foreign exchange is made available by a commercial bank against a letter of credit, the amount is imme- diately deposited in a suspended account on behalf of the purchaser, while foreign exchange made available on the basis of cash against documents (CAD) is transferred to the purchaser immediately. Commercial banks do not bear any exchange risk for any foreign exchange transaction. All commercial and specialized banks have been instructed by the Bank of Sudan to purchase pro- ceeds from exports of cotton (both irrigated and rainfed), gum arabic, official loans and grants, and government fees, taxes, and charges (paid in for- eign currency) at the unified free exchange rate in favor of the Bank of Sudan. Commercial banks have been encouraged by the Bank of Sudan to give prior- ity to previous commitments (letters of credit and CAD) established before February 2, 1992 against retention accounts and against the previously antic- ipated inflows of free market resources. Commer- cial banks have also been instructed by the Bank of Sudan to purchase all balances in retention accounts for goods and services outstanding at the close of business on February 2, 1992 at the unified free exchange rate and to utilize these balances as the starting foreign exchange base for each bank in the new market. In addition, commercial banks have been required to provide the Bank of Sudan with detailed statistics of the sources and utilization of proceeds transacted in the unified free market. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange risk operating in the free unified market. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Sudan, with the assistance of the authorized banks and specialized banks acting as exchange houses. Commercial banks and specialized banks may effect payments from their foreign exchange accounts without verification by the Bank of Sudan in accor- dance with the guidelines specified by the Bank of Sudan. The issuance of commercial certificates is the responsibility of the Ministry of Commerce, Co- operation, and Supply. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries —except Egypt, with which Sudan maintains a bilateral payments 456 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN 457 agreement —and all monetary areas (the "convert- ible area") may be made in foreign currency from any free foreign currency account or special foreign currency account, while receipts from the convert- ible area may be accepted in any convertible currency. Foreign Currency Accounts Sudanese nationals are allowed to keep foreign exchange in free accounts, and foreign nationals are allowed to maintain foreign exchange in special for- eign exchange accounts. Free accounts may be cred- ited only with (1) direct transfers from abroad; (2) foreign exchange registered on customs declara- tions; and (3) salary payments in foreign currency by diplomatic missions and regional and interna- tional organizations. All foreign exchange must be surrendered with the documentary evidence of transfer. Free accounts may be debited only for (1) transfers abroad; (2) withdrawals (in the form of traveler's checks or cash) for travel abroad by the account holder and his family af ter verification of fulfillment of travel requirements; (3) payments made in cash or bank checks to the Duty-Free Shop Corporation; (4) payment of hotel bills and travel tickets by certified check in foreign currency (for nonresident Sudanese nationals only); and (5) purchase of Sudanese pounds at the unified free rate. Any transfer from a free account is exempt from a simultaneous purchase and sale arrange- ment as long as the transfer is for (l)-(4) above, or for payments to the Estate Bank for purchases of cement or payments of an existing obligation on the free account, such as letters of credit already estab- lished through the Commercial Investment Scheme. The use of resources in the free account for any other purpose —including the financing of imports —requires the sale of foreign exchange to the unified free market and a purchase of foreign exchange through this market. Special foreign exchange accounts may be cred- ited with transfers from abroad by international organizations and members of the diplomatic corps, specified Arab organizations, nongovernmental or- ganizations, and foreign companies operating in oil drilling and mining, construction, engineering, and similar activities. Special accounts may be debited for transactions that are allowed through free ac- counts. In addition, the Arab Organization for Arab Development, the Arab Bank for Arab Develop- ment in Africa, the Arab Authority for Investment and Agricultural Development, the Arab Sugar As- sociation, the Khartoum International Institute for Arabic Languages, and the Arab Center for Social Insurance, together with diplomatic s ta f f, interna- tional and relief organizations, and foreign com- panies that pay their employees in foreign currency, are entitled to make transfers from their special foreign exchange accounts to their employees' spe- cial foreign exchange accounts to make salary payments. Transfers between free accounts, between foreign exchange accounts (other than for the exemptions cited above), and between free accounts and special foreign exchange accounts are prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Import licenses are not required, except for goods imported through bilateral and preferential trade arrangements. All applications for the impor- tation of goods not included on the negative list are to be channeled through the commercial or spe- cialized banks and must be accompanied by the following: (1) pro forma invoice; (2) valid commer- cial registration certificate (issued annually by the Ministry of Commerce) that verifies that the im- porter is a trader; (3) valid tax clearance certificate; and (4) approval of authorized government bodies (indicated in parenthesis) in the case of drugs, med- ical tools and equipment and medical needs (Minis- try of Health); veterinary medicines and veterinary needs (Ministry of Agriculture and Veterinary Re- sources); food (Ministry of Health); seeds (Ministry of Agriculture); petroleum and petroleum products (General Petroleum Corporation); ammunition and explosives (Ministry of Interior); airport needs (Civil Aviation Security); communication —telephone, fax, and telex —equipment (Security Telecom- munication Corporation); insecticides and fertilizer (Ministry of Agriculture); chicken fa rm and cow ranch needs (Ministry of Agriculture and Veterin- ary Resources); irrigation pumps (Ministry of Irriga- tion); and agricultural sprayers (Ministry of Agriculture). The negative list of imports includes textiles and ready-made garments; carpets and moquette; furn i- ture and ready-made doors and windows; canned food, except tomato paste; confectionery (sweets, biscuits, macaroni, shi'ria); milk powder and cheese; livestock and slaughtered meat, except live- stock for breeding; broilers and eggs, except one- day-old chicks and parent eggs; hides and footwear, except artificial leather; soda water and other non- alcoholic beverages; washing soap; fresh f ru i ts and vegetables; sugar; alcoholic beverages; and arms and ammunition, except through special permits. In principle, commercial banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange to finance all imports (except those on the negative list) irrespective of their final ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 458 SUDAN use. In practice, commercial and specialized banks are required to furnish the Bank of Sudan with the following information every two weeks: applicant's name; goods to be imported; value of imports; term of payment; approval number; commercial registra- tion number; and tax clearance number. Insurance for imports must normally be taken out with local companies. Imports financed at the free unified rate, including those financed through the opening of letters of credit, could be subject to an advance deposit up to the full c. & f. value. Payments for Invisibles In principle, there are no restrictions on payments for invisibles. In practice, however, sales of foreign exchange for invisible payments d iffer among com- mercial and specialized banks owing to the informal rationing procedures established by each bank. Un- der the current practice, most commercial banks provide a nominal amount of foreign exchange for travel abroad after travel verification is obtained. In times of shortage of foreign exchange, business travel is favored over vacation travel. For medical treatment abroad, a commensurate amount of for- eign exchange is provided af ter the applicant has obtained medical committee certification. For the period through the end of June 1992, the Government has subsidized the education of stu- dents currently studying abroad (whose files are being maintained in the Ministry of Higher Educa- tion). The subsidy has been administered by com- mercial banks, whereby eligible students have pur- chased foreign exchange at the rate of Lsd 20 per US$1, and the Government has borne the remain- ing cost pertaining to the exchange rate differential. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Export licenses are not required for any category of exports (except for exports under bilateral protocol arrangements and on account of barter trade). How- ever, all exporters must submit export contracts and the "EX" export form to commercial or specialized banks for approval. Indicative export prices are set by a committee consisting of the Minister of Com- merce, the Governor of the Bank of Sudan, three private sector exporters, and the manager of a com- mercial bank. Significant divergence from these prices requires the permission of the committee be- fore shipment. All export proceeds must be repatriated to the domestic banking system at the unified free ex- change rate. When the terms of payments are cash against documents or sight letters of credit, the proceeds must be surrendered on delivery of the shipping documents; otherwise, a surrender date is usually specified up to a maximum of three months. Export proceeds relating to cotton and gum arabic must be purchased by commercial banks in favor of the Bank of Sudan at the unified free exchange rate. Some major export commodities are exported solely by public sector entities. Export taxes are levied on all categories of goods (except exports under bilateral protocol arrange- ments and under barter trade). Commercial and specialized banks are instructed to collect taxes on export proceeds (f .o .b. basis) and to deposit the domestic currency equivalent at the prevailing uni- fied free market exchange rate immediately into the Government's account at the Bank of Sudan. The applicable tax rates are 75 percent on cotton (irri- gated); 75 percent on gum arabic; 20 percent on herds and cattle; 20 percent on camels; 20 percent on sesame; and 10 percent on other exports. Proceeds from Invisibles Sudanese nationals working abroad are allowed to keep free foreign exchange accounts. Repatria- tion of funds from Sudanese nationals working abroad is transacted at the unified free exchange rate. The schedule of minimum transfers estab- lished in December 1989 of $500 for laborers, $1,000 for civil servants, $2,000 for professionals, $4,000 for professors and experts, and $6,000 for businessmen was abolished on January 1, 1992. Travelers entering Sudan may bring in foreign currencies without restriction, but they must de- clare foreign currencies in their possession. The val- idation period of currency declaration forms is three months, after which foreign currencies must be sold to commercial banks. A customs declaration is re- quired for the foreign exchange to be credited to a foreign currency account or to be re-exported. Trav- elers entering Sudan may not import more than Lsd 20 in Sudanese currency. Capital Public sector capital transactions (including debt- service payments) are effected at the unified free market exchange rate (in contrast to the official ex- change rate of Lsd 15 per US$1 before February 2, 1992); likewise, all incoming private sector foreign capital, including bank capital, is converted at the unified free exchange rate (in contrast to the com- mercial bank rate of Lsd 30 per US$1 before Feb- ruary 2, 1992). Foreign direct investments are permitted in accor- dance with existing laws and regulations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN 459 Repatriation of share capital and amortization payments on loans to nonresidents is subject to certification from the Bank of Sudan regarding the original value of the foreign share in capital and loans. Repatriation of equity shares requires a cer- tification of liquidation and tax compliance. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sudan for numismatic purposes. Subject to cer- tain conditions, residents may also purchase, hold, and sell domestically produced gold in Sudan. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and ex- ports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Commerce, Co- operation, and Supply; such licenses are not nor- mally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Some newly mined gold is exported for pro- cessing and subsequent reimportation. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement October 6. The official exchange rate was devalued from Lsd 4.5 per US$1 to Lsd 15 per US$1. One hundred percent of foreign exchange earnings from exports of irrigated cotton and gum arabic were re- quired to be surrendered to the Bank of Sudan at the official rate. The free commercial exchange rate was devalued from Lsd 12.3 per US$1 to Lsd 30 per US$1. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement February 2. A unified free foreign market in which the exchange rate would be determined in an inter- bank market by the Union of Banks (Bankers' Asso- ciation) and quoted uniformly by all commercial banks was introduced. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Suriname is the Suriname Guilder, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at Sf 1.78876 per US$1. On December 31, 1991, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Sf 1.77 and Sf 1.80, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are set daily by the Central Bank on the basis of the market quotations for the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in Amster- dam. There is no exchange market in Suriname. The Central Bank charges a commission of 1 percent on purchases of foreign exchange. The commercial banks charge commissions of 2.0 percent on sales of foreign currency and 0.25 percent on transfers. A "conversion rate" of Sf 5 per US$1 is used for the valuation of "own-funds" imports, and the Govern- ment sells most goods obtained under bridging as- sistance from the Netherlands at a special conver- sion rate of Sf 2.50 per f. 1 (Netherlands guilder). There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Suriname formally accepted the obligations of Ar- ticle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from June 29, 1978. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions are subject to licensing, as are transactions between residents and nonresidents in domestic currency and other do- mestic assets. Import licenses are granted by the Ministry of Economic Affairs .2 In case of payment by letter of credit, the import license must also be approved by the Central Bank, but the release of foreign exchange for all external payments is ap- proved by the Ministry of Finance in consultation with other ministries. In principle, imports of medi- cal supplies, fuels, raw materials, spare parts, and educational supplies are given priority in the licens- ing system, but the full basis for allocation is not published. The Central Bank is empowered to provide foreign exchange for import payments (sub- ject to presentation of an import license, which serves as a general authorization for payment); the latter authority is exercised through the commercial banks, which have been appointed authorized banks by the Foreign Exchange Commission. Exter- nal payments other than for the importation of goods require a license from the Foreign Exchange Commission. Except for limited amounts of foreign exchange for invisible payments not requiring an exchange license, the authorized banks are not per- mitted to sell foreign exchange unless the remitter submits an exchange license. Exports also require a license from the Ministry of Economic Affa irs. Com- mercial banks may accept free of license those in- ward transfers of foreign exchange that do not re- sult from borrowing abroad; the taking up of foreign loans must be approved by the Foreign Exchange Commission. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements in Suriname guilders between Sur- iname and foreign countries are not permitted; they must, in general, be made in specified convertible currencies.3 Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks, may freely open accounts in U.S. dollars with domestic banks; no overdrafts are permitted. Nonresidents other than banks may freely open accounts in Sur- iname guilders with domestic banks; certain debits and credits are covered by a general license, and all others are subject to a specific license. These ac- counts must not be overdrawn and, except for cer- tain specified purposes, debits must not exceed a total of Sf 3,000 a month. Authorized banks may open nonresident accounts in Suriname guilders in the name of nonresident banks; these accounts also must not be overdrawn. Authorized banks may 1 Barbados dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Guyana dol- lars, Netherlands guilders, and pounds sterling. 2However, two specified mining companies do not need li- censes for their own import requirements. Similar exemptions may be granted to foreign companies for their industrial activities in Suriname, provided that they pay for imports from their own foreign exchange holdings. 3Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Barbados dollars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Eastern Caribbean dollars, French francs, Guyana dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por- tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Trinidad and Tobago dollars, and U.S. dollars. 460 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME 461 open nonresident accounts on behalf of nonresi- dents drawing pensions from the Government or under company plans. A special permit is required to transfer pensions abroad. Nonresident accounts in guilders may not be credited with Suriname bank notes mailed from abroad; nonresident foreign cur- rency accounts may not be credited with Suriname tender. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all imports. Im- ports of some commodities are prohibited,4 and imports of another group of commodities are sub- ject to quotas under the Comprehensive Decree of May 11, 1982.5 The Ministry of Finance allocates foreign ex- change according to three priority criteria. The highest priority list covers basic foods tuffs, hydro- carbons, and pharmaceuticals. The second priority list consists of inputs for cement production, subsis- tence payments to Surinamese students living abroad, and transfers to embassies abroad. The lowest priority list includes spare parts. A govern- ment agency, the Suriname Central Importation Service, acts in part as a distributor of goods mainly to the outlying districts. Import licenses are granted more liberally to individuals and companies using their own foreign exchange ("own-funds" licenses). The import license serves as a general authoriza- tion for payment. For payment by letter of credit, the import license must be approved by the Central Bank. Import licenses are valid for six months, 4The prohibition applies to imports of pigs (excluding those for breeding); chicken, duck, and turkey meat, pork, fish (excluding kwie kwie fish and smoked herring), shrimp, and crab (fresh, cooled, or frozen, salted, dried, or precooked); vegetables (ex- cluding potatoes, onions, and garlic); edible roots and tubers; citrus, bananas, plantains, and coconuts; green and roasted cof- fee (excluding decaffeinated); rice and rice products (excluding baby food); sugar (excluding cubes and tablets weighing 5 grams or less a cube or tablet), aromatized or colored sugar or sugar syrup; noodles and macaroni; jam, jelly, and marmalade (exclud- ing those for diabetics); peanut butter; syrups and concentrates for nonalcoholic beverages in packages of less than 5 kilograms (excluding those for diabetics); firewood and other nonprocessed wood, railroad ties, shingles, wooden structures for con- struction, wooden tiles and panels, wooden tools, handles, and coat hangers; men's and boys' shoes (excluding rubber and plas- tic boots and sport shoes); and sand, gravel, sidewalk tiles, and road bricks. Imports of some other items, such as explosives and narcotics, are prohibited for reasons of public policy or health. 5The commodities to which import quotas are applied include kwie kwie fish, milk powder, potatoes, onions, garlic, fruits and nuts (other than citrus, bananas, plantains, and coconuts), de- caffeinated coffee, peanuts, baby food, tomato paste, certain preserved vegetables, matches, furnishings, ready-made clothing, and furn i ture (excluding those for business establish- ments, such as offices, theaters, clinics, hotels, restaurants, and libraries). within which period the goods must be landed and paid for. In addition to customs duties, a license fee of 1.5 percent and a statistical fee of 2.0 percent are levied on the c . i .f. value of all imports, including imports of gold. Payments for Invisibles Transactions involving outward remittances of foreign exchange are subject to licensing; applica- tion for a license must be submitted to the Foreign Exchange Commission at least one month before the intended date for effecting such a transaction. Authorized banks and the General Post Office have authority to provide foreign exchange up to Sf 150 an item a month on account of certain services (bank charges, legal fees, membership dues, copy and patent rights, and so for th) as well as for advertising expenses and payments for books. Travel allowances for residents are subject to li- censing and are limited to the equivalent of Sf 50 a person a calendar year for travel to Guyana and French Guiana, and Sf 270 a person a calendar year for travel to other countries. A person may be granted the maximum amount of Sf 320 a year for travel to other countries, provided that he forfeits the right to purchase foreign exchange for travel to Guyana and French Guiana (50 percent of these amounts apply to children under 12 years). The authorized bank must enter on the travel ticket the amount of foreign exchange sold and the date, the purchase of exchange for travel not being permitted until three days before departure. Bona fide applica- tions for larger amounts of exchange for travel pur- poses are approved on a case-by-case basis. Remit- tances for support of family members abroad require an individual license, which is granted only for full-time registered students of disciplines es- sential to, but not taught in, Suriname. Payments due as interest on loans and as net income from other investments, and payments of moderate amounts for amortization of loans or de- preciation or direct investments, may be made if an application, supported by an auditor's report, is duly presented to the Foreign Exchange Commis- sion for verification. These payments are tem- porarily suspended. Both resident and nonresident travelers may take out Sf 100 in Suriname currency. The exportation of foreign bank notes by traveling residents is limited to the amount of their travel allowance. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports require export licenses issued by the Min- istry of Economic A f fa i rs. Licenses are issued if the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 462 SURINAME exports are covered by letters of credit opened by buyers abroad, and exporters undertake to sur- render the foreign currency proceeds to the Central Bank within 30 days. The Ministry of Economic A f fa i rs ascertains with the relevant government agency whether the export price as reported by the exporter is in accordance with world market prices. Export licenses for cattle, pigs, fresh beef and pork, and planting materials are granted only on the ad- vice of the Director of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, and Fisheries. The exportation of ba- boon wood is prohibited and that of rice is subject to special regulations. Certain export companies have received special permission from the Foreign Ex- change Commission to maintain current accounts in foreign currency with their parent companies abroad and to use these for specified payments and receipts (including export proceeds). Exports of logs are subject to a tax of 10 percent to 50 percent of f .o .b. value, depending on the type of wood; and exports of rough-hewn timber are subject to a tax of 10 percent of f .o .b. value. All exports are subject to a statistical fee of 2.0 percent of their f .o .b. value. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in foreign currency without limit and up to Sf 100 in domestic currency. Travelers must de- clare all domestic and foreign currency in their pos- session on entry; resident travelers must exchange at an authorized bank any foreign currency in their possession. The amount that nonresidents may take out of the country in foreign currency must be smaller than the amount they brought in and de- clared on entry. Capital A decision of September 21, 1960 of the Foreign Exchange Commission provides for the transfer abroad of capital proceeds from the sale to residents or the liquidation of fully or partly foreign-owned companies or other forms of enterprise. The deci- sion covers investments made by nonresidents with foreign capital after July 31,1953. It also provides for the annual transfer of profits and for the transfer at any time of the foreign exchange (including loans) imported by the nonresident entrepreneur for the company's use. Profits must be transferred within three years; otherwise, they are considered to have become part of the firm's working capital and may be transferred only in annual installments of 20 per- cent. Transfers in accordance with these decisions have been temporarily suspended. The Foreign Exchange Commission may, at its discretion, grant licenses for transfers abroad from a deceased's estate, up to a maximum of Sf 10,000. For estates of more than Sf 10,000, fu r ther annual trans- fers are permitted so as to spread them over a period of not more than ten years. The Commission may allow emigrants (heads of family) to transfer in for- eign exchange the equivalent of Sf 5,000 in a lump sum, and subsequently, Sf 5,000 a year. The head of a repatriating family may be permitted to transfer the equivalent of Sf 10,000 plus 10 percent of his total taxable earnings in Suriname accrued during his period of residence; if his Surinamese assets exceed the sum thus calculated, the excess may be transferred at a rate of Sf 10,000 a year. Transfers abroad in excess of Sf 10,000 a year may be autho- rized under exceptional circumstances. Outward transfers for these purposes have been temporarily reduced. Subject to certain requ iremen ts, residents may purchase or sell in specified countries6 Sur- inamese corporate shares that have been desig- nated as negotiable by the Foreign Exchange Commission. Transfers for investment abroad or for the purchase of other fore ign securities or real estate by residents are not perm i t ted, although exceptions may be made for direct inves tmen ts abroad when it is considered that Surinamese in- terests will bene f i t. All borrowing f rom nonresi- dents by nonbank residents requ ires the prior ap- proval of the Foreign Exchange Commission. The foreign transactions of authorized banks are re- stricted, in principle, to those under taken for the account of their customers, and banks are re- quired, in principle, to su r render to the Central Bank any excess of foreign currency pu rchased. Authorized banks are permitted to place a part of their liquid funds abroad and to use the short-term credit lines extended by their foreign correspondent banks as a source of operating funds. The Central Bank, the authorized banks, and the correspondent banks have made an arrangement whereby the Central Bank guarantees the letters of credit issued by the authorized banks by pledging its balances up to a specified ceiling, while the authorized banks keep their balances abroad at a minimum level.7 The authorized banks may place abroad in short-term U.S. dollar assets the amounts corresponding to balances in their nonresident U.S. dollar accounts. 6Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Netherlands Antilles, United Kingdom, and United States. 7This arrangement applies to the nationally controlled Land- bouw Bank, De Surinaamsche Bank, and Hakrinbank, but not to the Dutch-owned Algemene Bank Nederland. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME 463 Gold Producers of gold may sell only to the authorized gold buyers (the Central Bank and Grassalco). Lo- cally produced gold must be surrendered to the Foreign Exchange Commission by sale to the Cen- tral Bank. The authorized gold buyers are permit- ted, however, to sell nuggets at freely agreed prices for industrial and artistic purposes; dealings be- tween residents in gold bars and other forms of unworked gold, with the exception of nuggets, are prohibited. As local production does not meet de- mand for industrial purposes, the Central Bank may import some gold. Three kinds of gold coins—with face values of Sf 100, Sf 200, and Sf 250—are legal tender. Resi- dents may hold and acquire gold coins in Suriname for numismatic and investment purposes; autho- rized banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and with other residents. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized industrial and dental users are not allowed without special permission to hold or acquire gold in any form other than nuggets, jewelry, or coins, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry re- quire exchange licenses issued by the Foreign Ex- change Commission; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports of coins by authorized banks and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and industrial users. Residents arriving from abroad, however, may freely bring in gold, subject to declaration and provided that they surrender it to the Central Bank within 20 days. Nonresident trav- elers may also freely bring in gold, subject to decla- ration; they may re-export the declared amount freely. Imports of gold coins are duty free and those of unworked gold are subject to a duty of Sf 1.00 a gram, irrespective of origin. The general tariff for gold ornaments is 60 percent ad valorem. Imports and exports of all forms of gold are subject to a statistical fee of 2.0 percent; in addition, imports are subject to a licensing fee of 1.5 percent. Changes During 1991 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement Administration of Control The currency of Swaziland is the Lilangeni (plural emalangeni), which is pegged to the South African rand at E 1 per R 1. Exchange rates for the U.S. dol- lar quoted by the Central Bank of Swaziland (CBS) are based on the floating rate of the South African commercial rand against the U.S. dollar. On Decem- ber 31, 1991, the closing buying and selling rates were E 2.7405 and E 2.7420, respectively, per US$1. Rates are also quoted for the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, and the Swiss franc, based on the London and New York market quotations for these currencies against the U.S. dollar, and for the European Currency Unit (ECU). The CBS also quotes rates for the currencies of the member states of the Preferential Trade Area of Eastern and Southern African States (PTA), based on their relationship to the SDR as reported by the clearinghouse operated by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe. These currencies include the Kenya shilling, the Malawi kwacha, the Zambian kwacha, and the Zimbabwe dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The CBS permits authorized dealers to engage in forward exchange operations. Commercial banks are generally able to meet demands for forward sales of foreign currency against emalangeni. The forward exchange rates are market determined. Swaziland formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from December 11, 1989. Exchange Control Territory Swaziland is part of the Common Monetary Area (CMA), which is a single exchange control territory comprising Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland. No restrictions are applied to payments within the CMA, and, in principle, these are not controlled. Residents of Swaziland have access to the Johannesburg market in accordance with the terms and conditions ruling in that market. In rela- tions with countries outside the CMA, Swaziland applies exchange controls that are generally similar to those of South Africa but has not adopted the dual exchange rate system that was reintroduced in that country in September 1985. Financial rand may not be acquired by, or held for account of, any resi- dent of Lesotho, South Africa, or Swaziland. The CBS, on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, controls all external currency transactions. Imports and Import Payments Swaziland is a member of the Southern African Customs Union (SACU) with Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, and South Africa, and there are no import restrictions on goods originating in any country of the customs union. Imports from South Africa do not require licenses and include an unknown quan- tity of goods originating outside the customs union. Imports from countries outside the customs union are licensed in conformity with specific import reg- ulations. Import licenses granted in Swaziland enti- tle the holder to buy the foreign exchange required to make the import payment. Ports of entry outside Swaziland may be utilized, but the Swazi au- thorities are responsible for the overall control of import licenses and payments procedures. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to licensing. For those goods that are shipped to any one member of the SACU, licenses are used mainly for tax levy pur- poses. For goods shipped to countries outside the SACU, licensing is administered to ensure that ex- port proceeds are repatriated in the prescribed manner and within the stipulated period. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transac- tions, while subject to control, are not normally restricted. Authority to approve some types of cur- rent payments is delegated to authorized dealers up to established limits. The basic exchange allowances for tourist travel are E 10,000 for each adult, and E 5,000 for each child, a year. For business travel, the basic allowance is E 750 a person a day, not exceed- ing E 15,000 a year. Larger amounts are granted upon application supported by proof of bona fide need. Residents traveling to the member countries of the PTA must use traveler's checks denominated in the units of account of the PTA (UAPTAs). To use credit cards outside the CMA, a resident cardholder must complete a letter of undertaking before departure. 464 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND 465 Capital All inward capital transfers require the prior ap- proval of the CBS and must be properly docu- mented in order to facilitate the subsequent re- patriation of interest, dividends, profits, and other income. No person may borrow foreign currency or register shares in the name of a nonresident, or act as a nominee for a nonresident, without prior ap- proval. In August 1987, an agreement was reached between the Reserve Bank of South Africa and the CBS to allow some nonresidents to invest in specific projects in Swaziland through the financial rand mechanism by acquiring shares in new companies and by purchasing shares in existing nonquoted companies through South African intermediaries. Priority is given to investments involving the estab- lishment or expansion of manufacturing enter- prises, subject to evidence of investment in fixed assets of most of the funds provided through finan- cial rand. Applications for most outward transfers of capital are considered on their merits. Blocked emalangeni may be invested in quoted securities and other such investments as may be approved by the CBS. Changes During 1991 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN (Position on December 32, 1992) Exchange Arrangement The cu r rency of Sweden is the Swedish Krona. Un t il May 16,1991, the Sveriges R iksbank (cen tral bank) was guided, in managing the exchange ra te of the krona, by a trade-we igh ted index based on a basket consisting of 15 currenc ies of Sweden's most impor tant t rad ing pa r tne r s. The weights were proportional to Sweden's fore ign t rade with the coun tr ies whose currenc ies were included in the index, except that the weight of the U .S. dollar had been doubled and that of the o ther currencies a d j u s t ed accordingly. To take account of changes in average t rade shares, the weights were ad- ju s t ed each year (on Apr il 1) on the basis of t rade statistics for the last five calendar years. The index value of 132 rep resen ted the benchmark for the e f fec t ive value following the devaluation on Octo- ber 8, 1982 (August 29, 1977 - 100). Since June 1985, f luc tua t ions in the spot ra te have been limited to within 1.5 percent on either side of the announced benchma rk. Effective May 17, 1991, the peg of the Swedish krona was changed from a trade-weighted basket to a basket based on the European Currency Unit (ECU). The central value was set at Skr 7.40054 per ECU 1, which corresponds exactly to the previous benchmark. As under the previous exchange rate arrangement, the Sveriges Riksbank maintains the exchange rate within margins of ± 1.5 percent. The composition of the basket during 1991 was as follows: Trade-weighted ECU (April 1- (Af ter May 17, 1991) May 17, 1991) 21.0 17.6 10.1 8.4 7.3 7.0 5.4 4.7 4.3 3.9 3.7 2.2 1.8 1.4 1.2 19.3 9.5 9.8 8.1 5.3 100.0 30.3 12.6 2.5 1.1 0.8 0.7 100.0 U.S. dollar Deutsche mark Pound sterling Norwegian krone Danish krone Finnish markka French franc Netherlands guilder Italian lira Belgian f ranc Japanese yen Swiss f ranc Spanish peseta Austrian schilling Canadian dollar Irish pound Portuguese escudo Greek drachma Total An average of the daily index values is published weekly by the Riksbank. The market buying and selling rates for spot transactions in U.S. dollars, the intervention currency, on December 31, 1991 were Skr 5.540 and Skr 5.545, respectively, per US$1. Spot rates for other currencies are established on the basis of the cross rates in international markets. Forward market rates are left to the interplay of market forces. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized banks may buy from and sell to other authorized banks and residents any foreign cur- rency on a spot or forward basis against another foreign currency or Swedish kronor. Authorized banks may also purchase (sell) foreign currencies, spot or forward, f rom (to) foreign banks and other nonresidents against any foreign currency or Swed- ish kronor credited (debited) to a kronor account. Also, currency option contracts may be concluded freely with both residents and nonresidents. For prudential purposes, limits are placed on the net foreign exchange positions (spot, forward, op- tions) in individual foreign currencies and the total net position in all foreign currencies. The limit for each foreign currency and for the total net position is equal to 10 percent of a bank's capital base. For a bank that is an authorized dealer, this latter limit is equal to 15 percent of its capital base. Banks may grant overdrafts to nonresidents and may incur for- eign exchange net liabilities for which the same limits apply. This enables the banks to borrow for- eign currency from nonresidents for on-lending to foreign banks or other nonresidents or to residents. Lending abroad in kronor is also freely permitted. Swedish banks may, while observing their limits on net foreign exchange holdings, borrow abroad freely in order to sell the proceeds against Swedish kronor in the market. A limit also exists on a bank's total net positions calculated as the sum of all lia- bility positions. This limit is equal to 20 percent of the bank's capital base and, for authorized market dealers, to 30 percent. Sweden formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Exchange control regulations were abolished in 1990. All current payments are free of exchange 466 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution— — — SWEDEN 467 control, provided that they are made through cur- rency traders in accordance with the Sveriges Riksbank Act (1988:1385). When required, import and export licenses are issued by the National Board of Trade, except those for foods tuffs, which are issued by the National Agricultural Market Board. Prescription of Currency Payments to and f rom foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Swedish kronor through an external kronor account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Nonresident Accounts External kronor accounts may be held by nonresi- dents domiciled abroad, including persons who have become nonresidents af ter emigrating. They may be used for payments and transfers for conver- sion into any foreign currency. Imports and Import Payments With the exception of some agricultural and fishery products, practically all goods are free from quantita- tive restriction and import licensing when imported from countries other than Albania, Bulgaria, China, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the former U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. However, most im- ports from these countries are liberalized. Imports of certain textile products from some countries and ter- ritories (Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Republic of Korea, Macao, Malaysia, Malta, Pakistan, Philip- pines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Taiwan Province of China, Thailand, Turkey, and Yugoslavia) are limited through special arrangements. In addition, imports of specified textiles from any source other than the Euro- pean Community (EC), the European Free Trade As- sociation (EFTA) countries, Australia, Canada, the Faeroe Islands, Greenland, Japan, New Zealand, and the United States, as well as imports of most iron and steel products from all countries, are subject to import licensing for surveillance purposes. Import restric- tions on textiles were removed on the planned expiry date of the Multifiber Arrangement (MFA) (July 31, 1991), although the MFA was extended for a period of 17 months. Imports from South Africa are prohibited. Payments for imports may be made freely through an authorized currency trader. Importers are also per- mitted to accept foreign suppliers' credits. provided that they are made through an authorized currency trader. Foreign exchange for travel abroad may be acquired freely. Each person leaving Sweden may take out Swed- ish bank notes and coins without limitation. While abroad, residents may open accounts abroad, pro- vided that at the end of their stay, they transfer the balance to Sweden. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to the People's Democratic Republic of Korea are subject to export licensing. All other ex- ports, with the exception of scrap metal, are free from license. Exports to South Africa are pro- hibited. Proceeds from exports of goods may be sold for kronor or kept in a foreign currency account in Sweden and used by the holder to make payments abroad. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from current invisibles are subject to the same treatment as those from exports (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Each person entering Sweden may bring in unlimited amounts of bank notes, coins, and other means of payment. Capital All capital transactions are free, provided that they are conducted through an authorized currency trader. For tax control and statistical purposes, how- ever, residents are generally not allowed to deposit capital in foreign bank accounts or to e f fect or re- ceive payments through such an account. This ban does not apply to residents conducting business from a business location abroad, to exporters, to travel operators, and to a few other categories. Transactions in securities must be carried out through an authorized currency trader who is a securities broker or a broker who has received spe- cial approval f rom the Riksbank. Foreign securities must also be deposited with such an institution. Investments in South Africa are not allowed. Gold There are no special regulations on trading in gold. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement Payments for Invisibles Invisible payments may be made by residents in favor of nonresidents without limit or restriction, May 17. The peg of the Swedish krona was changed from a trade-weighted basket to a basket based on the ECU. The central value was set at Skr 7.40054 per ECU 1, which corresponded exactly to the previous ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 468 SWEDEN benchmark, and the exchange rate of the krona would remain within a fluctuation range of ±0 1.5 percent around its central value. MFA, although the MFA was extended for a period of 17 months, Imports and Import Payments July 31. Import restrictions on textiles were re- moved, effective on the planned expiry date of the Payments for Invisibles January 1. Residents were allowed to purchase life insurance policies abroad without restriction. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND1 (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Switzerland is the Swiss Franc. The Swiss National Bank does not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions; exchange rates are determined, in principle, on the basis of under- lying demand and supply conditions in the ex- change markets. However, the Swiss National Bank reserves the right to intervene if and when circum- stances warrant. The principal intervention cur- rency is the U.S. dollar; on December 31, 1991, the midpoint market rate for the Swiss franc in terms of the U.S. dollar was Sw F 1.3355 per US$1. All settlements may be made at free market rates. Foreign bank notes are negotiated freely in Switzer- land at rates determined by the interplay of supply and demand. Residents and nonresidents may freely negotiate foreign exchange contracts with banks in all currencies, in respect of both commer- cial and financial transactions. No officially fixed premiums and discount rates apply to forward ex- change contracts, all of which are negotiated at free market rates. Under the Export Risk Guarantee Sys- tem, export receipts, excluding exchange rate risks, may be insured by the Government under certain conditions. Exchange Control Territory For all purposes of importation and exportation, the Principality of Liechtenstein is included in the Swiss customs territory. For purposes of monetary policy measures, natural persons domiciled in Liechtenstein are considered by Switzerland as resi- dents, as are juridical persons, including banks. However, this rule does not apply to the acquisition of Swiss real estate. Liechtenstein is considered a foreign country for purposes of banking supervision. Administration of Control Authority to impose measures for the control of imports, exports, and payments is vested in the Swiss Federal Council, acting on the advice of the Federal Department of Public Economy, the Federal Department of Foreign Affairs, or the Federal De- partment of Finance. The Swiss National Bank is the advisory and executive authority in matters of cur- Switzerland became a member of the IMF on May 29, 1992. rency for both Switzerland and Liechtenstein. Capi- tal export transactions of financial institutions, how- ever, are subject to approval by the Swiss National Bank (see section on Capital). Prescription of Currency Settlements may be made or received in any currency. Imports and Import Payments With minor exceptions, imports into Switzerland may be made freely. The importation of alcohol is subject to state monopoly. The most important com- modities subject to license, irrespective of their origin, are certain agricultural products, petroleum products, and washing preparations and their com- pounds. Import permits for goods under license are generally granted freely, but global quotas are es- tablished for certain agricultural products. Imports of textiles from specified countries are subject to price surveillance or price certification. Payments for imports from all countries may be made freely. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. The exportation of Swiss and foreign bank notes is unrestricted. Exports and Export Proceeds The exportation (including the re-exportation) of some goods, including weapons and scraps, is sub- ject to control through individual licenses. This export-licensing system is operated in part with the assistance of appropriate semiofficial or private or- ganizations. Export proceeds are freely disposable. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are freely disposable. The importation of Swiss and foreign bank notes is unrestricted. Capital Transfers of capital may be made without for- mality, except that foreign bond issues in Switzer- land amounting to or exceeding Sw F10 million each and with a maturity of 12 months or more require permission from the Swiss National Bank. In prac- tice, this requirement is administered very liberally. 469 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 470 SWITZERLAND A stamp tax is payable on security issues and trans- actions. Subsidiaries and branches of foreign in- stitutions are allowed to participate in syndicated Swiss franc security issues. For direct bank par- ticipations or subscriptions by Swiss banks in Eu- robank issues and bank credits (exceeding Sw F 10 million and with a maturity of longer than 12 months), the Swiss National Bank grants a general permit. Each generally authorized capital export transaction must be reported to the Swiss National Bank. The physical importation and exportation of Swiss and foreign securities are unrestricted. Selected banks and finance companies are required to report their positions (their own assets and lia- bilities in foreign currencies, spot and forward) in domestic and foreign currencies on a monthly basis. Purchases of real estate in Switzerland by or on behalf of persons or firms of foreign nationality who are domiciled or resident abroad require approval by the canton in which the property is situated. The approval of the canton is subject to supervision and appeal by the Federal Government. Gold Swiss gold coins are not legal tender. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. There is a free gold market in Zurich. Imports and exports of gold in any form by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license. No customs duties or other charges are levied on exports of gold. Imports of gold bars and of certain gold coins are exempt from customs duty. Import and export licenses, which are issued freely, are required for commercial imports and ex- ports of certain articles containing gold. Changes During 1991 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement Administration of Control The currency of the Syrian Arab Republic is the Syrian Pound, which is pegged to the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency. A multiple exchange rate system is ma in ta ined. The off ic ial ra te of LS 11.20/11.25 per US$1 applies, on the receipts side, to most public sector transactions, including loans, grants, and other budge ta ry receipts; and, on the payments side, to government imports and to public sector imports of certain ag r icu l tu ral commodities, public sector invisible payments, and capital transactions. In addition, private re- mittances, tour ist receipts, and a portion of the proceeds f rom exports of f ru i t s, vegetables, and a number of other agricultural items and receipts f rom ba r ter t rade are subject to the "rate in neigh- boring countries/7 as determined by the Cen tral Bank; this ra te applies, on the payments side, to travel allowances, tour ism and medical expenses, s tudent allowances and remittances abroad, and paymen ts by the public sector approved by the Higher Committee for Foreign Exchange. The ra te in the neighboring coun tr ies was LS 42 .OO/ LS 43.00 on December 31, 1991. The rate of LS 40 per US$1 applies to t ran s fe rs for re fugees f rom the United Nations to the Syrian Arab Republic mis- sion to the United Nations in connection with the war in the Middle East and to su r rende red pro- ceeds f rom ba r ter exports of phosphate, marble, and aspha l t. The ra te of LS 33 per US$1 applies to t ran s fe rs abroad by airline companies, and the ra te of LS 30 per US$1 applies to airline tickets purchased by Syrian res iden ts. On December 31, 1991, the off ic ial buy ing and selling ra tes were LS 11.20 and LS 11.25, respec- tively, per US$1. Buy ing and selling rates for all other ma jor currencies are quoted on the basis of the official and promotion rates and cu r rent ex- change rates for the U .S. dollar in neighboring countries, and on the rates for the currencies con- cerned in markets abroad.1 There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange risk op- erating in the official or the commercial bank ing sector. Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Iraqi dinars, Italian lire, Jordan dinars, Lebanese pounds, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kroner, and Swiss f rancs. Policy with regard to imports and exports is deter- mined by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade. Under an agreement between the Central Bank of Syria and the Administrative Committee of the Exchange Office, all transactions of the Ex- change Office are carried out through the Central Bank. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade, and exchange licenses for invisibles and capital transactions, by the Ex- change Office. Only authorized commercial banks may deal in foreign exchange. The commercial banks open letters of credit and accept bills for col- lection without prior approval, provided that certain conditions are fulfilled. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency The Exchange Office is empowered to prescribe the currencies to be obtained for exports. Proceeds from exports to all countries may be obtained in any convertible currency. Prescription of currency re- quirements are not applied to outgoing payments. All payments to and receipts from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. The Syrian Arab Republic maintains bilateral payments agreements with the Islamic Republic of Iran, Sri Lanka, the states of the former U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam, of which the first and the third agreements are operative. Private sec- tor exporters to countries with which the Syrian Arab Republic maintains bilateral payments ar- rangements are required to ship 20 percent of their exports to countries conducting foreign trade in convertible currencies and may use the proceeds from these exports to finance imports of raw mate- rials needed for production or may surrender their proceeds at the rate in neighboring countries. Pri- vate sector firms must fulfill their convertible cur- rency requirements before exporting to the states of the former U .S .S .R. Nonresident and Foreign Currency Accounts Nonresident accounts in Syrian pounds may be credited with the proceeds of foreign currencies sold to the authorized bank and with payments for goods. They may be debited without prior approval to pay for Syrian exports to the country of the ac- count holder and for expenses in the Syrian Arab 471 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 472 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Republic. Residents wishing to open foreign cur- rency accounts are required to present written evi- dence that they have sources of income abroad. Nonresidents (individuals and corporations) may open accounts in convertible foreign currencies at authorized local banks for the deposit of funds from abroad. Balances in such accounts may be sold to local banks, transferred abroad without restriction, or used to pay for specified imports. Temporary nonresident accounts may be opened in the name of nonresidents temporarily residing in the Syrian Arab Republic. These accounts may not be used, however, for funds received in settlement currencies, through payments conventions, or by diplomatic and United Nations (UN) missions and their s ta f fs. Diplomatic and UN missions and their s ta f fs must exchange 50 percent of their transfers to Syria at the official rate and may keep the remaining 50 percent on deposit in foreign exchange or convert it at the rate prevailing in neighboring countries. Debits for local expenditures are completely free, and debits for expenditures abroad are also permitted. Imports and Import Payments Imports of commodities originating in Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Many basic com- modities (including paper, salt, tobacco, wheat, iron and steel, and certain agricultural machinery) are imported only by state trading agencies or, for their own account, by certain other official agencies. Agencies having the sole authority to import may be required to import certain commodities to meet the raw material needs of the private sector. In 1987-91, the list of permitted goods that can be imported by the private sector was enlarged to include certain agricultural goods, industrial goods, and raw materials. Private importers pay advance import deposits and customs on the basis of the official exchange rate, but imports of foods tu f fs and certain agri- cultural and industrial inputs are exempted. Imports of goods not on the permitted list are prohibited, with certain exceptions. In principle, imports must come direct from the country of origin, without the intervention of any foreign firm; the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade has the authority, however, to permit certain goods to be imported f rom countries other than the country of origin. Imports from the Syrian free zone are al- lowed for certain industrial and other goods. All imports, except those valued at less than LS 2,000 (LS 500 for imports f rom Lebanon), require licenses, which the importer must obtain before the date of shipment of the goods. Operations of the state trading agencies are governed by the annual foreign exchange budget. Drawing from the bud- get, these agencies submit documentation of their import requirements to the Ministry of Economy and automatically receive import licenses. Certain imports (not appearing on the list of prohibited imports) from Jordan, Lebanon, and Saudi Arabia are exempt from license, in accordance with the Arab Common Market Agreement. In such cases, an authorization to import is granted in response to a written request. Payments for imports by the Government are effected at the official market rate, and imports by public sector enterprises are paid at the current exchange rate in neighboring countries. Private sec- tor importers are authorized to import products specified on the permitted list by opening letters of credit at the Commercial Bank of Syria. In practice, because foreign exchange is not made available, private sector imports must be financed with im- porters' own resources. There are currently five ave- nues available to private sector importers: (1) exter- nal credit arrangements, including suppliers' credits of 180 days' maturity, and third-party financ- ing; (2) use of foreign currency deposits maintained in Syria by Syrians residing abroad; (3) use of im- porters' own foreign exchange deposits maintained abroad; (4) use of foreign exchange deposited in the Commercial Bank of Syria under the export pro- ceeds retention regulations; and (5) foreign ex- change purchased from other private or mixed sec- tor enterprises through the intermediation of the Commercial Bank of Syria at the rate in neighboring countries. Import deposits are waived for some categories of agricultural and industrial equipment, raw mate- rials, and spare parts for both public and private importers. For other public imports, a 100 percent advance deposit requirement, valued at the official rate, is, in principle, required. However, this re- quirement has been suspended in practice, as the Higher Committee for Foreign Exchange has ap- proved access to foreign exchange. In practice, pub- lic sector importers must make an advance deposit at the rate of 15 percent when opening letters of credit with the commercial banks and pay the bal- ance when receiving the documents. A non- interest-bearing advance import deposit of up to 50 percent of the import value is required for private sector imports financed through foreign credit facil- ities; the official exchange rate is used in the conver- sion. Other private imports are subject to a 100 per- cent advance import deposit requirement in foreign exchange. A fee ranging from LS 25 to LS 200 is charged on import license issuance. An import surcharge ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC 473 (called a "license fee") of 2 percent is charged on all imports except those by the Government, and im- ports of certain essential items, including raw mate- rials, petroleum, and petroleum products. In addi- tion, a unified import surcharge has replaced all the previous special levies on imports (a statistical tax, a municipal consumption tax, a defense tax, a school tax, and a maritime transport and port tax). Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles must be made at the rate in neighboring countries, while trade-related transactions of the public sector are made at the official exchange rate. Payments for invisibles related to authorized im- ports are not restricted. Residents traveling abroad may take with them foreign exchange, with a limit of $2,000 a trip to all countries except Jordan and Lebanon. Of this limit, up to the equivalent of LS 5,000 a trip may be pur- chased at the rate in neighboring countries for travel to Arab countries (except Jordan and Lebanon) and up to the equivalent of LS 7,500 a trip for travel to non-Arab countries. Travelers to Jordan and Lebanon are not eligible for a foreign exchange travel allowance but may take with them up to LS 5,000 a trip in Syrian bank notes. With this excep- tion, Syrian bank notes may not be taken out of the country. For children 10 years old or younger, the allowances are 50 percent of these amounts. Workers on secondment to a foreign country may take with them foreign exchange equivalent to 25 percent of the above-mentioned allocations and the entire amount of the allocations on producing proof that they have transferred foreign exchange from abroad. For travel to payments agreement countries, 50 percent of the travel allocation must be taken up through the clearing account concerned (30 percent for travel on official business). On de- parture, residents of Syrian nationality must pay an exit tax of LS 400 a person if traveling to Arab coun- tries, and LS 1,100 a person to other destinations. Fixed allocations are maintained for other transac- tions in invisibles, as follows: a maximum of 60 per- cent of the salaries received by foreign technicians and experts employed in the Syrian Arab Republic, and 50 percent of the salaries of personnel of foreign diplomatic and international missions in the Syrian Arab Republic. All other transactions require the prior approval of the Exchange Office Committee, with the exception of embassies and international organizations, which must convert 50 percent of their transfers at the official rate, and the remaining 50 percent at the current exchange rate in neighbor- ing countries. Nonresidents leaving the country are not allowed to reconvert Syrian currency into for- eign exchange and must declare any foreign ex- change in excess of $5,000 that they are carrying. The allowance for education abroad is subject to prior authorization from the Ministry of Higher Ed- ucation. The transfer of funds abroad for family maintenance is limited to LS 250 a transfer and is effected upon presentation of proof. The allowance for medical treatment must be authorized by the Ministry of Health. Remittances of profits from in- vestment must be authorized by the Exchange Of- fice upon presentation of supporting documents (for example, balance sheet, or certificate confirm- ing payment of income tax), except for profits from projects approved by the Higher Committee for In- vestment (under the Investment Law, see below), which can be repatriated freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of wheat, barley, cotton, cottonseed, and their derivatives are made by the Cereals Office or the Cotton Authority. Exports of petroleum are han- dled by the Petroleum Marketing Office. Exports of certain other commodities are also reserved for gov- ernment agencies, state trading agencies, or spec- ified companies. Exports of a few goods to all coun- tries and all exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Exports under bilateral payments agreements and of all goods of foreign origin re- quire licenses. For all other exports, licenses are not required. For most exports, however, a repatriation commitment is required, by which the exporter un- dertakes to repatriate the proceeds to the Syrian Arab Republic within three months of the date of export shipment to Arab countries and within four months of the date of export shipment to other countries. The proceeds of exports retained by pri- vate and mixed exporters may be used to import goods on a list issued by the Ministry of Economy or may be sold to other private or mixed sector enter- prises, through the intermediation of the Commer- cial Bank of Syria at the rate in neighboring countries. Public sector enterprises may retain 100 percent of their export proceeds in special foreign currency accounts at the Commercial Bank of Syria and use the proceeds to import goods on the permitted list, subject to prior approval, or they may sell the pro- ceeds at an exchange rate of LS 40 per US$1 to the Commercial Bank of Syria. The rate in neighboring countries is applied to exports of cotton and cotton- seed. Exporters of specified products in the private sector may retain up to 75 percent of export pro- ceeds to finance imports on a permitted list, even if the products to be imported are not directly related ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 474 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC to their exporting activity (imports may be under- taken on behalf of public sector entities and some other private sector activities). Most private sector exporters are thus required to surrender to the Commercial Bank of Syria only 25 percent of their proceeds at the rate in neighboring countries except for the proceeds from exports of some mineral prod- ucts and bartered goods, which are surrendered at a rate of LS 40 per US$1. The remaining 75 percent can be deposited at the Commercial Bank of Syria in specially earmarked export exchange accounts until import payments are made or foreign exchange is voluntarily sold to the Commercial Bank of Syria. In the case of fruits and vegetables, public and private sector exporters may convert 100 percent of the pro- ceeds at the rate in neighboring countries. Private sector exporters to countries with which the Syrian Arab Republic maintains bilateral pay- ments arrangements are required to ship 20 percent of their exports to countries conducting foreign trade in convertible currencies and may use their export proceeds in convertible currencies for im- ports. The retained export proceeds may be depos- ited in a special export exchange account denomi- nated in foreign currency with the Commercial Bank of Syria or may be surrendered at the rate in neighboring countries. The Commercial Bank of Syria may accept prepayments for exports of Syrian products by residents and nonresidents without referring to the Central Bank of Syria. Exports of ginned cotton receive subsidies from the Fund for the Development of Exports of Industrial Products. A tax ranging from 9 percent to 12 percent ad val- orem is charged on the value of exports of agri- cultural origin except for cotton. The export tax on cotton is 12.5 percent of the value of the exports ( f .o .b .) less the cost of transportation within Syria. Exports of fruits, vegetables, and vegetable oil are subject to an export tax of 8 percent ad valorem; however, exports of fru i ts and vegetables have been exempted from the agricultural tax during 1989-92. Exports of other agricultural products are subject to an ad valorem agricultural tax of 7 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions by the public sector must be sold at the official market rate, but those from transactions by the private sector must be sold at the current rate in neighboring countries. Non- residents entering the Syrian Arab Republic are per- mitted to bring in unlimited foreign exchange in any form, with no declaration required for amounts up to $5,000. Residents and nonresidents may freely bring in foreign bank notes and Syrian bank notes. All Syrian nationals employed by Arab, foreign, or international organizations inside the Syrian Arab Republic and paid in full or in part in foreign curren- cies are required to exchange all such earnings at the Commercial Bank of Syria at the official exchange rate. With few exceptions, non-Syrian visitors to the Syrian Arab Republic are required to settle their bills in foreign exchange. All Syrians working abroad are subject to an annual tax of $50-$700, depending on their profession, and are allowed import tax exemp- tions on luxury items (valued between $500 and $7,000) if they surrender equivalent funds at the rate in neighboring countries. Syrian government employees who are on leave and working abroad are exempted from the annual tax but are required to repatriate and convert, at the rate in neighboring countries, a minimum of 25 percent of each year's pay and allowances they receive in foreign exchange. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers by the public sector take place at the official rate, while transactions by the private sector are determined by the Exchange Office of the Central Bank on a case- by-case basis. The exportation of capital requires the approval of the Exchange Office, as does most bor- rowing abroad. Order No. 265 of June 10, 1970 provides special facilities for the investment of funds of immigrants and of nationals of Arab states in the economic development of the Syrian Arab Republic. Incentives for foreign investment in joint ventures in tourism include a seven-year exemption from all taxes and municipal charges; exemption from income tax on 50 percent of profits; exemptions from customs duties and other taxes on imports of raw materials, tools, vehicles, and other equipment; permission to import inputs needed for repairs up to a value of 3 percent of the previous year's turn- over; and authorization to open foreign currency accounts. Incentives to promote foreign investment in joint ventures in agriculture and agro-industries include a seven-year exemption from all taxes (in- cluding income tax), beginning from the first finan- cial year in which profits are declared, and exemp- tions from import and foreign exchange restrictions. Foreign companies may transfer profits abroad, but may not transfer capital unless the investments are in accordance with presidential decrees. Immi- grants and Arab nationals may transfer abroad up to 50 percent a year of their profits. In the case of mixed enterprises, which are exempt from import duties and profit taxes for five to seven years af ter realizing profits, the foreign participants may transfer abroad both profits and capital. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC 475 Under the 1991 Investment Law (Law 10), proj- ects approved by a newly created High Council for Investment (HCI) benefit from a number of exemp- tions from exchange and trade regulations. These projects are free to import machinery, equipment, and vehicles required without paying customs du- ties. Mixed companies (with at least 25 percent pub- lic participation) enjoy seven years of exemption from all taxes, while private companies are ex- empted from tax payments for five years; these peri- ods may be extended by two years if the project exports at least 50 percent of output. Investors are permitted to hold foreign exchange accounts with the Commercial Bank of Syria to finance hard cur- rency requirements. These accounts comprise all capital and loans secured in foreign currency and 75 percent of foreign currency exports. Funds from these accounts may be provided on demand and may be used to compensate foreign s taff. Investors are free to repatriate foreign exchange capital af ter five years from the date of investment. Capital may be repatriated after six months if the project suffers from events beyond the control of the investor. All profits may be transferred freely. Foreign staff are entitled to transfer abroad 50 percent of salaries and 100 percent of severance pay. The Syrian Arab Republic has signed investment guarantee agreements with France, the Federal Re- public of Germany, Switzerland, and the United States. Nonresidents other than Arab nationals may acquire immovable property in the Syrian Arab Re- public only after presenting evidence that they have converted into Syrian pounds the foreign exchange equivalent of the price of the property at an autho- rized local bank. Gold Residents may hold, acquire, and sell manufac- tured gold in the Syrian Arab Republic without re- striction. Domestic transactions in manufactured gold take place at free market prices that are in line with free market prices abroad. Imports of gold are exempt from import licensing, but exports are sub- ject to export licensing. Proceeds from exports by residents must be surrendered. Exports of gold pre- viously imported by nonresidents out of their re- sources abroad are subject to a repatriation commit- ment covering the cost of manufacturing and the profit earned. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement January 14. All payments for medical expenses, travel allowances, tourism, and family support were allowed to be made at the rate in neighboring coun- tries. The Commercial Bank of Syria was allowed to buy foreign currency checks and transfers from in- dividuals at the rate in neighboring countries in- stead of at the promotion rate. January 23. Transfers for refugees from the United Nations to the Syrian Arab Republic mission to the United Nations in connection with the war in the Middle East were allowed to be converted at the rate of LS 40 per US$1. February 20. The exchange rate applicable to the surrender of 30 percent of the proceeds from ex- ports of mixed agricultural and Arab companies was changed from the promotion rate to the rate in neighboring countries. February 27. The Commercial Bank of Syria was allowed to buy foreign currency bank notes from individuals at the rate in neighboring countries without requiring a declaration on the source of funds. April 2. The rate of LS 40 per US$1 was applied to surrendered proceeds from bartered exports of phosphate, marble, and asphalt, and surrendered proceeds from bartered exports of medical goods were shifted to the rate of LS 25 per US$1. April 6. The rate in neighboring countries was changed from LS 40/42 per US$1 to LS 42/43 per US$1. November 3. The rate in neighboring countries was applied to the surrendered portion of export proceeds that was exchanged at the promotion rate. Prescription of Currency May 1. Private sector exporters to the former U.S.S.R., who had previously been required to ex- port 20 percent of the value of exports to the former U.S.S.R. to convertible currency areas, were re- quired to effect the 20 percent convertible currency exports before exporting to the former U.S.S.R. This requirement would apply to exporters of fruits, veg- etables, soft drinks, and certain derivative food products. Payments for Invisibles December 19. Residents traveling abroad, other than to Jordan and Lebanon, were allowed to take with them foreign exchange up to a limit of $2,000 a trip; travelers to Jordan and Lebanon were allowed to take with them up to LS 5,000 a trip. Exports and Export Proceeds June 17. An exceptions list of items for which public sector exporters could retain 50 percent of proceeds was revoked. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 476 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Proceeds from Invisibles December 19. Nonresidents entering the Syrian Arab Republic were required to declare foreign ex- change in their possession if the amount exceeds $5,000. Capital May 4. A new Investment Law (Law 10) aimed at encouraging all private investment in Syria, includ- ing direct foreign investment, came into force. The main provisions of the law are (1) a newly created High Council for Investment (HCI) will issue li- censes for projects that are consistent with the Gov- ernment's development plans in that they aim to provide jobs, increase exports, reduce imports, and use modern technology; (2) fixed assets must ex- ceed LS 10 million, calculated at an exchange rate determined by the HCI (the rate in neighboring countries was initially selected); (3) projects are free to import machinery, equipment, and vehicles re- quired for production free of customs duties. Mixed companies (with at least 25 percent public participa- tion) will enjoy seven years of exemption from all taxes, while private companies will be exempted from tax payments for five years; these periods may be extended by two years if the project exports at least 50 percent of its output; (4) investors will be permitted to maintain foreign exchange accounts with the Commercial Bank of Syria to finance hard currency requirements. These accounts may be credited with all capital and loans obtained in for- eign currency and 75 percent of export receipts. Balances on these accounts may be withdrawn on demand to compensate foreign staff; (5) investors will be free to repatriate capital five years after the date of investment. Capital may be repatriated after six months if the project su f fe rs from events beyond the control of the investor. All profits may be trans- ferred freely; (6) foreign staff will be entitled to transfer abroad 50 percent of salaries and 100 per- cent of severance pay; and (7) applications for li- censes must be submitted to the relevant ministry, which will appraise the project and submit its rec- ommendation to the HCI within 30 days. The HCI will act on the proposal within 30 days. Changes During 1992 January 1. The exchange rate applicable to airline tickets purchased by Syrian residents was changed from LS 20 to LS 30 per US$1, and the exchange rate applicable to transfers abroad by airline companies was changed from LS 22 to LS 33 per US$1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Tanzania is the Tanzania Shilling, which is pegged to a basket of the currencies of Tanzania's main trading partners. The Bank of Tan- zania quotes daily buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1991, the Bank of Tanzania's buying and selling rates for the shilling in terms of the U.S. dollar were T Sh 232.7 and T Sh 235.1, respectively, per US$1. The buying and selling rates for other currencies1 are determined on the basis of the cross rates for these currencies in relation to the U.S. dollar in international markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The Bank of Tanzania applies a spread of 0.5 percent between the buying and sell- ing rates. It does not offer forward cover against exchange rate risk. However, authorized dealers may, at their discretion, enter into forward contracts of purchases and sales of foreign currencies with their customers on account of export and import transactions. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance has delegated the admin- istration of exchange control to the Bank of Tan- zania. In principle, authority for making payments abroad should be delegated by the Bank of Tanzania to the three authorized banks —the National Bank of Commerce, Cooperative and Rural Development Bank, and the People's Bank of Zanzibar. In prac- tice, virtually all outward payments have to be ap- proved by the Bank of Tanzania; control over ex- change operations in Zanzibar is exercised by the People's Bank of Zanzibar. On the mainland, import control is administered by the Import Controller in the Bank of Tanzania, and export control, by the Export Controller in the Ministry of Industries and Trade. The Bank of Tan- zania acts as the registrar of exporters. The respon- sibility for issuing specific import licenses rests with the Import Controller, and that for issuing export Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Comorian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Netherlands guilders, Ethiopian birr, French francs, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Lesotho ma- loti, Malawi kwacha, Mozambican meticais, Mauritian rupees, Norwegian kroner, Pakistan rupees, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, Somali shillings, Swaziland emalangeni, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Uganda shillings, Zambian kwacha, and Zim- babwe dollars. licenses is delegated to the Board of External Trade, to whom applications must be submitted by the importer or exporter in Tanzania before import orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. Zanzibar administers an independent system of for- eign trade controls through a Board of Trade; all imports and the principal exports are effected by the state trading agencies (Bizanje and the Zanzibar State Trading Corporation). Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements between residents of Tanzania and nonresidents must be made either in convertible currencies or in Tanzania shillings by debit or credit to a convertible nonresident account or loro account. Nonresident Accounts Accounts maintained by foreign nationals tem- porarily resident in Tanzania; by firms, companies, or other organizations registered or incorporated outside Tanzania; and by foreign diplomatic mis- sions, the United Nations, or other international organizations and their officials in Tanzania are des- ignated nonresident accounts. These are divided into two broad categories: convertible and noncon- vertible. Balances on convertible accounts are eligi- ble for transfer from Tanzania without any fur ther scrutiny of, or approval from, the Bank of Tanzania. Balances on nonconvertible accounts may be trans- ferred from Tanzania after approval is obtained from the Bank of Tanzania. There are six subcatego- ries of nonresident accounts —namely, external, shipping/airline, special, ordinary, expatriate, and unspecified. Tanzanian nationals and foreign na- tionals normally resident in Tanzania who have gone abroad for vacation, employment, or other purposes may maintain both special and ordinary accounts in the form of a current, savings, or de- posit account, according to the option of the account holders. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. Cer- tain imports into the mainland from any source may be prohibited for reasons of health or security. All goods valued at the equivalent of, or more than, 477 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 478 TANZANIA T Sh 10,000 require a license before they can be imported into the country. Under the Own Foreign Exchange Import Scheme, import licenses are is- sued on request for importation of a specified list of commodities. Customs tariffs are levied on the c.i.f. value of imports, and the tariff schedule is ad valorem. Most items, particularly intermediate and capital goods, are subject to a minimum rate of 30 percent. The maximum rate on most consumer goods is 60 percent. Statutory exemptions are the diplomatic corps; re- ligious, educational, and welfare institutions; aircraft engines; aviation fuel; scientific, educational, and re- ligious films; printed matter; cable and telephone ma- terial; sewing machines; and timber for use by mining companies. Discretionary full or partial exemptions are allowed by the Minister of Finance if imports are considered to be in the public interest. Unless specifically exempted by the Bank of Tan- zania, individual consignments of imports amount- ing to T Sh 250,000 or more are subject to com- pulsory preshipment inspection by international agencies for quantity, quality, and price; part ship- ment against a pro forma invoice of T Sh 250,000 or more is also subject to preshipment inspection irre- spective of the value of each shipment. All mer- chandise imports onto the mainland must be in- sured with the National Insurance Corporation of Tanzania, and premiums must be paid in Tanzania shillings. All imports into Zanzibar are made by Bizanje. Most imports, irrespective of their origin, are subject to sales tax at rates ranging up to 50 per- cent of the c . i . f. value plus import duty. (This tax is also payable on sales of domestic products.) Since February 1988, the Government has made a portion of foreign exchange available on a nonad- ministrative basis for a selected positive list of prior- ity import categories through an open general li- cense (OGL) system. Under the OGL system, the minimum value for each import license is set at $5,000. The OGL import license is valid for four months, and advance cash deposits are required in accordance with the normal commercial banking procedure. Effective January 1, 1991, a negative list system has been applied to products that are not allowed to be imported under the OGL system. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries are con- trolled and require the approval of the Bank of Tan- zania. Noncitizens working in Tanzania under con- tract in salaried employment and with a firm commitment to leave Tanzania eventually may re- mit abroad, throughout their period of employ- ment, up to one third of their salary to cover family maintenance, savings, etc. Applications to remit more than one third of salary, or in excess of T Sh 6,000 a month, are considered on their merits by the Bank of Tanzania. Basic exchange allocations for tourist travel are not granted, and family remittances by residents to relatives abroad are not allowed. A traveler is al- lowed to take out up to T Sh 1,000 in domestic currency. Nonresident travelers may take out for- eign currency notes, traveler's checks, and letters of credit for any amount remaining out of the foreign exchange they brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. On the mainland, exports of some products are handled by state trading organizations, and exports of certain other products are subject to licenses; if there is a local shortage, exports may be restricted. All princi- pal exports of Zanzibar are sold abroad by the Zanzibar State Trading Corporation. Exporters are required to be registered with the Bank of Tanzania and must maintain an account with a local commercial bank. Export proceeds must be repatriated in convertible currencies within two months of the date of exportation. However, on ap- plication to the Bank of Tanzania, this period may be extended. Export proceeds must be surrendered to an authorized dealer upon their collection, with the fol- lowing exceptions: (1) exporters of nontraditional products may retain up to 35 percent of their foreign exchange earnings and may import goods on the list that are permitted to be financed by "own foreign exchange" for sale in the local market; and (2) expor- ters involved in a production activity must use all of their retained foreign exchange for imports of raw materials and spare parts essential to their production activities. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold to an autho- rized dealer. Travelers may freely bring in convert- ible foreign currency notes; a returning traveler may bring in Tanzania shilling notes and coins up to T Sh 1,000. Capital Capital transfers to all countries are subject to con- trol by the Bank of Tanzania and are restricted; all capital transfers require individual exchange control approval. Persons leaving Tanzania permanently for settlement abroad will not as a rule be granted foreign exchange facilities. When, however, any person is unable to maintain himself and his dependents and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA 479 has no ostensible means of livelihood outside Tan- zania, limited foreign exchange facilities may be granted by the Bank of Tanzania purely on compas- sionate grounds. Gifts to nonresidents require the prior approval of the Bank of Tanzania. There is no restriction on the investment of for- eign funds in Tanzania, but, to ensure eventual repatriation, the investment should be recognized by the Bank of Tanzania, and a certificate of its status as an approved enterprise in terms of the National Investment Promotion Act, 1990 should be obtained from the Ministry of Finance. The act dis- tinguishes three areas for foreign investments: (1) the controlled areas, which are reserved for pub- lic investment or joint public and private enter- prises; (2) the reserved areas, which are reserved exclusively for investment by the public sector; and (3) areas that are exclusively reserved for Tanzanian citizens. Registered foreign investors are permitted to use up to 50 percent of their net foreign exchange earning for debt servicing or remittances of profits and dividends. All imports and exports of securities require ap- proval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase of Tanzanian securities by nonresidents from resi- dents, provided that payment is received in foreign exchange. The income from such securities is remit- table, as are the proceeds from resale. Purchases of securities outside Tanzania by residents are not permitted. All loans or overdrafts from residents to nonresi- dents or to foreign-controlled resident bodies re- quire approval from the Bank of Tanzania. Gold A commemorative gold coin is legal tender but does not circulate within Tanzania. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Tanzania for numismatic purposes. With this exception, resi- dents other than the monetary authorities and au- thorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form, other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and ex- ports of gold in any form, other than jewelry con- stituting the personal effec ts of a traveler, are subject to individual licensing by the Bank of Tanzania. Import licenses for gold jewelry are issued by the Bank of Tanzania and are available to goldsmiths only. Licenses are not granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary au- thorities, industrial users, and producers of newly mined gold; imports are limited to an overall import quota. Changes During 1991 Imports and Import Payments January 1. The negative product list replaced the positive list under the OGL system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Tha i land is the Thai Bah t. The external value of the baht is determined on the basis of the relationship of the baht to a weighted basket of currencies of Thailand's ma jor trad ing par tners and other considerations. The Exchange Equalization Fund announces daily the buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar, the interven- tion currency, for transactions between itself and commercial banks; it also announces daily mini- mum buy ing and max imum selling rates that commercial banks must observe when dealing with the public in Brunei dollars, deutsche ma rk, Hong Kong dollars, Indonesian rup iah, Japanese yen, Malaysian ringgit, Philippine pesos, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, and U .S. dollars. On December 30, 1991, the middle o f f ic ial ra te was B 25.255 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign ex- change. Forward exchange markets operate be- tween commercial banks and customers and among the commercial banks. All fo rwa rd trans- actions have to be re la ted to unde r ly ing t rade and financial transactions. The open foreign exchange positions of commercial banks are res tr ic ted by the Bank of Thailand. The forward prem ium in the bah t -U .S. dollar ra te is free ly determined and usually reflects interest d i f fe ren t ia ls between the two currencies. Thailand formally accepted the obligations of Ar- ticle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 4, 1990. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Thailand on behalf of the M in is try of Finance; the Bank of Thailand delegates responsibility to authorized banks (commercial banks) for approv- ing most transactions. Apa rt f rom au thor ized banks, authorized companies and authorized per- sons are also allowed to deal in fore ign exchange operations, a l though their activities are limited only to the buying and selling of fore ign bank notes and traveler's checks up to a certain amount as prescribed by the Bank of Tha i land. Import and export licenses are issued by the M in is try of Commerce. There are no special requirements for currencies to be used in settlements with foreign countries; most payments are made in U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in foreign currencies are designated as foreign currency accounts. No restrictions are placed on the opening of foreign currency accounts as long as the funds originate abroad. Balances on these accounts earn interest and may be transferred abroad without restriction. Nonresidents may also open accounts in baht, known as nonresident baht accounts. The accounts may be freely credited with proceeds from the sale of foreign currencies originating abroad and with amounts transferred from other nonresident baht accounts. They may be debited for import payments and other payments that are approved by autho- rized banks. Nonresident baht accounts may be overdrawn for purposes of transferring to other nonresident baht accounts or for purchases of for- eign currency. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities may be imported freely, but import licenses are required for certain imports. Imports of certain goods are prohibited for protec- tive or social reasons. Importers of tea leaf, tea dust, skimmed milk, soybean meal, and silk yarn are required to purchase a proportionate quantity of the same type of goods produced in Thailand. Some goods are subject to temporary import surcharges. Subsidies are also provided for certain goods. Importers are required to complete foreign ex- change transaction forms for values exceeding B 500,000 at customs upon submission of an import entry form, except for certain goods, such as mili- tary equipment imported by the Ministry of De- fense, donated goods, and samples. Payments for imports may be made through any authorized bank. Importers may freely purchase foreign cur- rency or draw foreign exchange from their own foreign currency accounts for payments. Payments for Invisibles Remittances abroad of service fees, royalties, in- surance premiums, educational expenses, family 480 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND 481 maintenance, and dividends and profits on all bona fide investments af ter settlement of taxes and finan- cial obligations in Thailand are permitted freely. Authorized banks are also permitted to sell foreign exchange for remittances to families and relatives living abroad, up to $100,000 a person a year; and for remittances to Thai emigrants who have perma- nent residence permits abroad, up to $1 million a person a year from their personal assets. Foreign exchange transactions for amounts exceeding $5,000 are subject to completion of foreign exchange transaction forms. Authorized money changers are allowed to sell foreign exchange up to $2,000 or its equivalent a person. A traveler may take out domestic currency up to B 50,000; a person traveling to the countries border- ing Thailand is allowed to take out a maximum of B 100,000. Authorized banks are permitted to sell foreign exchange in foreign bank notes for travel purposes without restriction; sales of amounts ex- ceeding $20,000 in other forms (traveler's checks, drafts), however, require authorization from the Bank of Thailand. Nonresidents may take out with them foreign currency notes they brought into Thailand. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain categories of exports are subject to licens- ing and quantitative restrictions and, in a few cases, to prior approval, irrespective of destination.1 All other products may be exported freely. Exporters are required to complete foreign exchange transac- tion forms for values exceeding B 500,000 at customs upon submission of an export entry form. Export proceeds exceeding B 500,000 must be received within 180 days of shipment. Exporters are required to surrender foreign exchange proceeds to autho- rized banks or deposit them in foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Thailand within 15 days of receipt. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange earnings from invisibles must be surrendered to authorized banks or retained in foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Thailand within 15 days of receipt. Travelers pass- ing through Thailand, foreign embassies, and inter- national organizations are exempted from this 1 These include certain types of cement, gold, platinum, pre- cious stones, live cattle and other specified animals, coffee, sorghum, corn, all types of sugar, brass and copper in certain forms, iron scrap and most forms of iron other than pig iron and iron ore, and Deva and Buddha images. Textile exports to certain countries are also subject to licensing. requirement. Authorized money changers are al- lowed to purchase foreign currency notes and coins or traveler's checks in foreign currencies, but the latter must be resold to authorized banks within 15 days of purchase. Travelers may bring in domestic or foreign bank notes and coins without restriction. Capital Capital investments in Thailand through equity participation or portfolio investments are permitted freely. Foreign investors may hold up to 100 percent of the equity of a firm if all of its output is for exportation. Certain economic activities are re- served for Thai nationals. Foreign investments in Thailand that receive promotional privileges from the Board of Investment under the Investment Pro- motion Act (B.E. 2520) are accorded various incen- tives and special benefits. Foreign capital may be brought into the country and loans contracted without restriction, but pro- ceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks or deposited in foreign currency accounts with autho- rized banks in Thailand within 15 days of receipt. Repatriation of investment funds, loan repayments, and interest payments may be made without restric- tion. Inflows and outflows of funds exceeding $5,000 or its equivalent are subject to completion of foreign exchange transaction forms. External bor- rowing by the public sector must be approved by the Foreign Debt Committee. Authorized banks in Thailand may lend to a non- resident in foreign currency not exceeding $5 mil- lion or its equivalent. Loans may be extended to residents for outward remittance or for domestic use. If loans are used domestically, resident bor- rowers are required to convert foreign currency ob- tained into baht, which they are not allowed to deposit in foreign currency accounts. Direct investments abroad by Thai residents or lending to companies abroad that have at least 25 percent equity participation by Thai residents is permitted up to $5 million a year without authoriza- tion from the Bank of Thailand. Portfolio invest- ments and purchases of properties abroad by Thai residents require approval from the Bank of Thailand. Gold Residents may hold and negotiate domestically gold jewelry, gold coins, and unworked gold. Pur- chases or sales of gold on commodity fu tures ex- changes are prohibited. Imports and exports of gold other than jewelry, unless they are effected by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, are subject to the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 482 THAILAND following arrangements: commercial imports of gold are restricted and require a license issued by the Ministry of Finance. Foreign tourists may take out precious stones and gold or platinum orna- ments or other articles without restriction. Exports of gold bullion are prohibited. Exporters and im- porters of gold ornaments exceeding B 500,000 in value are required to complete foreign exchange transaction forms at customs upon submission of import/export entry forms. Gold ornaments are not subject to export duty or taxes. Changes During 1991 Payments for Invisibles April 1. Purchases of foreign currency from autho- rized banks were allowed in unlimited amounts, except for the following: (1) purchases of traveler's checks or draf ts exceeding $20,000 a trip; (2) over- seas investments by residents exceeding $5 million a transaction; and (3) overseas investments in se- curities or purchases of properties abroad. The max- imum period allowed for the holding of foreign cur- rencies was extended to 15 days from 7 days from the date of receipt. The maximum daily balances of foreign currency accounts held by resident natural and juridical persons in Thailand, however, would be limited to $5 million for a corporation or $500,000 for an individual. Imports and Import Payments January 14. The import duties on phosphoric and polyphosphoric acids were reduced. February 7. License fees on imports of pigskin and scoured wool were exempted. April 16. Import licenses were required for im- ports of certain types of diesel engines and used cars, and imports of gambling machines were prohibited. April 25. The import duties on certain goods were reduced in accordance with the Association of South East Asian Nations Preferential Trading Arrangements. May 15. The import duties on film (medical), rail- way sleepers, carpets, and traff ic mirrors were reduced. Exports and Export Proceeds February 19. The tax rebates on exports of pas- senger cars were increased. March 18. The maximum value for exports of jewelry and gold and platinum wares was raised to B 500,000 from B 5,000. May 20. The surcharges on exports of ball bear- ings to the EC were reduced. June 27. The business tax on exports of locally produced lead, wolfram, and scheelite products was reduced to 1 percent from 4 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO (Position on December 31, 1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Togo is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.02. The official buying and selling rates are CFAF 50 per F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. Banks levy a pro- portional commission of 2.50 per mill and a fixed charge of F 100 a transaction on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Union (WAMU), all of which must be surrendered to the Treasury.2 There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. The contracting of forward exchange cover requires the prior autho- rization of the Minister of Economy and Finance, and permission may be granted only in respect of the importation of certain clearly specified goods. The maturity of exchange contracts must be up to three months for goods deemed essential or strate- gic and one month for all other goods. There is no official currency swap scheme or guaranteed ex- change rate for debt servicing. With the exception of measures relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, Togo's ex- change controls do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote dTvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, and Senegal). Hence, all payments to these coun- tries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, which also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offer- ing for sale of foreign securities in Togo, inward direct investment and all outward investment, and aThe CFA f ranc is issued by the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2Transfers between member countries of the union are free of any commission. the soliciting of funds in Togo for placement in foreign countries. The Foreign Exchange Legal Commission has been created to advise the Minister of Economy and Finance on requests to settle cases involving violations of foreign exchange regulations concerning amounts equal to or exceeding CFAF 500,000 and on express requests from viola- tors of foreign exchange regulations. Some of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to authorized intermediaries and the BCEAO. The BCEAO is authorized to col- lect, either directly through economic agents or through the banks, financial institutions, the Postal and Telecommunications Office (Office des postes et telecommunications), and offices of government ministries, any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. The forwarding and receipt of bank notes through the mail by autho- rized intermediaries are subject to control by the BCEAO. All exchange transactions relating to for- eign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal and Telecommunications Office, or the BCEAO. Import and virtually all export li- censes are issued by the Foreign Trade Division in the Ministry of Commerce and Transport, except those for gold, which are granted by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Licenses for the exportation of cereals and other food crops are issued by the Commission nationale d'attribution des licenses d' exportation within the quota and volume limits set by the Technical Committee for Cereal Exports, af ter being approved by the Council of Ministers. Exports of local manufactured products and im- ports of nearly all products are not subject to licensing. Prescription of Currency Since Togo is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Mo- naco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current payments involving The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally effected through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through corre- spondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through for- eign accounts in francs. 483 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 484 Nonresident Accounts TOGO The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes is- sued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account is not permitted, except for credits to foreign accounts held by foreign corre- spondents of authorized banks, which may be cred- ited with BCEAO bank notes mailed directly to the BCEAO agency in Lome by those correspondents. Foreign accounts in francs may also be debited, without authorization, with BCEAO bank notes mailed by authorized intermediaries to their foreign correspondents through the BCEAO agency in Lome. Imports and Import Payments All imports of South African origin are pro- hibited. All other imports may be made freely, with the following exceptions: (1) imports of live or pro- cessed broilers and of frozen meat are prohibited; (2) the issuance of import licenses for printed piece goods of Japanese origin, footwear other than lux- ury or sports footwear with an f .o .b. value of less than CFAF 3,000, and frozen chickens and chicken offals is conditional, in principle, on the purchase of a specified quantity of the local product (in practice, this requirement is no longer enforced in respect of printed piece goods); (3) imports of cement, concrete-reinforcing bars, and wheat flour are sub- ject to the prior issuance of import licenses by the Ministry of Commerce and Transportation; (4) used cars, used tires, and used replacement parts may be imported only by dealers legally established in Togo who possess an authorization from the Ministry of Commerce and Transportation; (5) imports of phar- maceutical products, explosives, and firearms are subject to special arrangements. The import mo- nopoly of the Societe nationale de commerce for some consumer goods was abolished in 1989, and the company is now in the process of liquidation. However, imports of some of these products (sugar, rice, alcoholic beverages, tobacco, and cigarettes) are subject to special approval by the Ministry of Commerce and Transportation; and (6) imports of potatoes were prohibited during August 31, 1991- February 28, 1992. The following taxes are imposed on all imports: (1) a statistical tax of 3 percent; (2) a fiscal import duty of 5 percent to 35 percent; (3) a general busi- ness tax of 5 percent to 30 percent; and (4) a tempo- rary tax of 15 percent on imports of goods that are produced locally. With the exception of the general business tax, which is assessed on the basis of the c . i . f. value of imports inclusive of fiscal import du- ties, all other taxes are levied on c . i . f. values. All import transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000, with the exception of imports not involving payment or financed through the Postal and Telecommunications Office and certain imports of a special nature. Importers may purchase foreign exchange for import payments after establishing domiciliation accounts (dossiers de domiciliation) and submitting supporting documents, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened, or on the due date of payment if the products have already been imported. Pur- chases of foreign exchange for down payment are subject to prior authorization from the Minister of Economy and Finance, which may be granted only on the date such payment is due and only for up to 30 percent for each transaction involving capital goods and 10 percent for other transactions. All import operations exceeding CFAF 200,000 are con- ditional on merchandise insurance being taken out and domiciled with an approved insurance com- pany in Togo. Inspection of quality, quantity, and price of imports has been suspended. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles re- lated to trade are permitted by a general authoriza- tion when the basic trade transaction has been ap- proved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also generally permitted. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip (CFAF 87,500 for chil- dren under 10 years) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 re- maining after return to Togo must be surrendered within eight days of return. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreign national working in Togo is permitted upon presen- tation of the appropriate pay voucher, residence permit, or work permit, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Residents may at any time and without indicating the purpose of the transfer make payments abroad, through an authorized bank, up to CFAF 50,000 a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO 485 transfer. Resident and nonresident travelers to for- eign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes of other countries of the Operations Account Area. Resident travelers to other countries of the Operations Account Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes, but if proceeding to a country that is not a member of the WAMU, must declare to customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 250,000. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank notes and coins up to the amount they declared on entry3 or, if they made no declaration, up to the equivalent of CFAF 175,000. Nonresident travelers may also freely take out any amount in letters of credit and traveler's checks drawn in their names abroad. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to all countries require licenses only in certain cases. All exports to South Africa are pro- hibited. The Office togolais des phosphates has a monopoly over the exportation of phosphates, and the Office des produits agricoles du Togo has a monopoly over the exportation of cocoa, coffee, cot- ton, groundnuts, and certain other agricultural commodities. Exports of cereals are permitted, but licenses are generally granted only in years when the Technical Committee for Cereal Exports deter- mines that there is a food grain surplus. The Techni- cal Committee meets twice a year —at the beginning of March to make forecasts of the exportable sur- plus, and by November 10 to establish the actual export ceilings. The due date for payment for ex- ports to foreign countries, including the Operations Account Area, may not be later than 180 days af ter the arrival of the goods at their destination, and the proceeds must be surrendered within a month of the due date; authorized diamond purchasing of- fices, however, may retain foreign currency pro- ceeds in foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Togo. All export transactions, including those with the Operations Account Area, must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000 and the domiciling bank is responsible for ensuring effective repatria- tion of such receipts through the BCEAO. 3This amount is adjusted for (1) the amount of foreign cur- rency sold for CFA francs, and (2) any foreign currency acquired in Togo by (a) debit to a foreign account in francs or a foreign account in foreign currency, (b) the conversion of foreign cur- rency traveler's checks, etc., made out in the name of the traveler, and (c) any repurchases of foreign currency (permitted up to CFAF 175,000) with CFA francs resulting from the sale of foreign currency. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles transactions with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of ser- vices, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account Area. Residents bringing in for- eign bank notes and foreign currency traveler's checks in excess of CFAF 5,000 must sell them to an autho- rized bank within eight days. Capital Capital movements between Togo and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other countries of the Operations Account Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval from the Minister of Econ- omy and Finance and are restricted, but capital re- ceipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable) are main- tained over borrowing abroad, inward direct invest- ment, and all outward investment; the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Togo; and the soliciting of funds in Togo for placement abroad. Such operations require prior authorization from the Minister of Economy and Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Togolese Government, and (2) shares that are identical with, or can be sub- stituted for, securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Togo has already been autho- rized. With the exception of controls relating to for- eign securities and the soliciting of funds in Togo, these measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, member coun- tries of the WAMU, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Togo re- quire prior authorization from the Minister of Econ- omy and Finance,4 and at least 75 percent of such 4Including investments made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Togo and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Togo. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 486 TOGO investments must be financed by foreign borrow- ing. Foreign direct investments in Togo5 must be reported to the Minister of Economy and Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request postponement of the proj- ects. Total or partial liquidation of any inward direct investment or any outward investment also re- quires prior reporting to the Minister of Economy and Finance. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Togolese invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in Togo, must be reported to the Minister of Economy and Finance and to the BCEAO within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments constitute invest- ments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct invest- ment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents re- quires prior authorization from the Minister of Economy and Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constitut- ing a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; (3) loans taken up either by industrial firms to finance operations abroad or by approved international merchanting houses to fi- nance imports or exports; and (4) in certain circum- stances, any other loans, provided that the out- standing amount for any one borrower does not exceed CFAF 100 million. The repayment of any foreign borrowing requires the prior authorization of the Minister of Economy and Finance; exempt from this requirement are loans constituting a direct investment, loans taken up by authorized banks, and any loans exempted by the Minister. Lending abroad is subject only to special authorization from the Directorate of Economy. Under the provisions of the general tax legisla- tion, certain fiscal benefits are accorded to specified new investment (foreign and domestic) in both new and existing enterprises. In addition, certain enter- 5Including those made by companies in Togo that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Togo of foreign companies. prises, in accordance with their importance to the economic development of Togo, may be granted special privileges for a specified number of years relating to the maintenance of existing taxes and exemption from import duties. Such privileges are negotiated by the Government and the investor. The Investment Code adopted on October 31, 1989 aims at promoting local employment and small and medium-size Togolese enterprises and at de- veloping local resources. To obtain the tax benefits under this code, firms must provide from equity an amount equivalent to at least 25 percent of the amount net of taxes to finance new projects (ex- cluding working capital), and must pay at least 60 percent of their wage bill to workers who are nationals of Togo. Tax benefits mainly include ex- emptions from minimum forfait tax and corporate income taxes for five years for small and medium- size enterprises, seven years for enterprises that process domestic raw materials, and three years for other enterprises. The code guarantees the right of free transfer abroad of capital invested in Togo and of all investment income therefrom. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Togo. The importation and ex- portation of gold to or from any other country re- quire prior authorization from the Minister of Econ- omy and Finance. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1991 Imports and Import Payments May 30. Imports of potatoes were suspended dur- ing August 31, 1991-February 28, 1992. August 19. The importation, stocking, or market- ing of petroleum products by unauthorized entities was prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TONGA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Tonga is the Pa'anga. Its external value is determined on the basis of a weighted bas- ket of currencies, and their weights are related to the currencies' shares in Tonga's international trans- actions. The National Reserve Bank of Tonga (cen- tral bank) maintains buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency. The Bank of Tonga (commercial bank) quotes daily rates for 15 other currencies1 on the basis of their respective values against the pa'anga. The spread between the Bank of Tonga's buying and selling rates is approx- imately 2 percent. Sales of foreign exchange are at a premium of approximately 1.5 percent, and pur- chases are at a discount of approximately 0.5 per- cent. On December 31, 1991, the exchange rate (midpoint) of the pa'anga for the U.S. dollar was T$ 1.3317 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against ex- change rate risk operating in the official or the com- mercial banking sector. Tonga formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from March 22, 1991. Administration of Control Tonga's trade and payments system is relatively free of controls. Foreign exchange transactions are regulated by the Bank of Tonga and the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency There are no regulations prescribing the curren- cies to be used in particular transactions. Imports and Import Payments Licenses are required for all imports, although the authorities maintain a liberal attitude toward issuing these licenses. Import quotas are applied only to fresh eggs. The importation of certain items is restricted for cultural, health, safety, or environ- mental reasons. Tariffs, which apply to most private sector imports, are primarily for revenue purposes, and protective tariffs are levied on a few items, such as beer, paint, and wire fencing. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are not subject to taxes or quantitative restrictions. Effective January 1,1992, the monopoly of the Commodities Board over exports of coconut and coconut derivatives, vanilla, and bananas was eliminated. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles The Bank of Tonga is authorized to provide for- eign exchange for invisible payments up to T$ 1,000 a year. The Ministry of Finance may approve re- quests for amounts exceeding T$ 1,000 a year upon submission of satisfactory documentary evidence that the underlying transaction is a bona fide cur- rent international transaction. Shipping and airline agencies may remit fares and freight earned in Tonga on production of copies of returns forwarded to their respective head offices. Capital The authorities maintain a liberal attitude toward foreign direct investment, which, so far, remains small. Foreign investors are required to apply for a license, with approval depending on the type of investment. Investors are permitted a wide range of activities, but those that complement domestic pro- duction rather than competing with it, are generally preferred. Under the Industrial Development In- centives Act, foreign investors involved in manufac- turing are allowed duty-free imports of capital in- puts, a 15-year tax holiday, and repatriation of profits and capital. In principle, Tongan residents are not permitted to acquire financial assets abroad. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Fiji dollars, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dol- lars. February 11. The exchange rate system was changed from a peg to the Australian dollar to a currency basket, the weights of which are related to the relative shares of some of the major currencies in Tonga's international transactions. 487 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 488 TONGA Administration of Control January 1, 1992. The monopoly of the Com- modities Board over exports of coconuts and co- conut derivatives, vanilla, and bananas was abolished. Capital July 1. Under the Industrial Development Incen- tives Act, foreign investors in the manufacturing sector were granted a 15-year tax holiday, up from 5 years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Trinidad and Tobago is the Trin- idad and Tobago Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at TT$4.25 per US$1. On December 31,1991, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were TT$4.24468 and TT$4.28719, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in mar- kets abroad. There is a limited forward exchange market, in which the Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago quotes forward selling rates for the major international currencies.2 The rates quoted to the commercial banks are for local trading, on a fixed fu tu re date, for one-, two-, or three-month periods. Forward transactions are permitted for approved trade transactions only. Administration of Control The authority to administer exchange control is vested in the Central Bank acting under the dele- gated authority of the Ministry of Finance. The ex- change control system provides for compulsory sur- render of foreign currency,3 and for control over both current and capital transactions. Payments to South Africa are prohibited. Approval authority with respect to payments for visible imports has been delegated to the ministry responsible for trade (Ministry of Industry, Enterprise, and Tourism) and the Customs and Excise Department in Tobago, which also issues import and export licenses, where necessary. Short-term credit transactions, such as the granting of credit, loan, or overdraft facilities by resident banks to nonresidents and local nonresident-controlled companies, are also subject to control. Commercial banks can purchase foreign currency notes from the public, and the Central Bank in turn Barbados dollars, Belize dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Eastern Caribbean dollars, French francs, Guyana dollars, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. 2Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. 3Under Trinidad and Tobago's exchange control regulations, all currencies other than the Trinidad and Tobago dollar are considered foreign currencies. In certain cases, permission may be granted for the retention of a portion of foreign currency receipts in a foreign currency account (see section on Foreign Currency Accounts below). buys certain of these currencies from the commer- cial banks for repatriation to the respective mone- tary authorities under bilateral arrangements. The Central Bank does not repatriate Trinidad and To- bago currency. Prescription of Currency Settlements may be made in U.S. dollars or in specified currencies.4 Authorized payments, in- cluding payments for imports, to all countries may be made in U.S. dollars or in any other specified currency. Payments from all countries with which trade is allowed must be received in U.S. dollars or in any other specified currency. Nonresident Accounts There are several types of nonresident accounts: Trinidad and Tobago dollar accounts, which may be opened in local commercial banks by nonresidents with the approval of the Exchange Control Depart- ment, external accounts, and blocked accounts. External accounts denominated in Trinidad and Tobago dollars may be opened by commercial banks for nonresidents of Trinidad and Tobago. These ac- counts may be credited with payments by residents of Trinidad and Tobago that have been approved by the exchange control authorities, with transfers from other external accounts, and with proceeds from sales of gold and foreign currencies to an au- thorized dealer. They may be debited for payments to residents of Trinidad and Tobago, for transfers to other external accounts, and for purchases of for- eign currencies. The funds in these accounts may be converted into U.S. dollars or any other foreign currency and may be transferred freely to residents of countries outside Trinidad and Tobago. Blocked accounts are normally credited with the balance of capital assets of persons who have emi- grated from Trinidad and Tobago. The use of bal- ances on blocked accounts is subject to authoriza- tion. Blocked funds may be reinvested in local securities with the permission of the exchange con- trol authorities. Income derived from blocked ac- counts (such as interest and rents) is freely remitta- ble, provided the tax liabilities are settled. 4Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Myanmar kyats, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por- tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 489 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 490 TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO Generally, funds held in blocked accounts are eligi- ble for remittance to nonresidents on an annual basis. Accounts in Trinidad and Tobago dollars are ac- counts held in local commercial banks by nonresi- dents with the approval by the Exchange Control Department. Foreign Currency Accounts Foreign currency accounts denominated in for- eign currency may be maintained at local banks by (1) designated exporters who have earned foreign exchange equivalent to at least 80 percent of their import requirements (20 percent of the export pro- ceeds are sold to the Central Bank through the com- mercial banks); and (2) petroleum service com- panies who receive payments from the foreign currency accounts of the oil companies (these ac- counts may be used to purchase goods and services for the oil companies). Holders of these accounts are required to submit periodically to the authorities statements of credits and debits to the account. Imports and Import Payments While most commodities may be imported under open general license arrangements, some imports are subject to the provisions of a "negative list." Effective January 1, 1991, the scope of the negative list was reduced substantially when quantitative restrictions representing approximately 40 percent of non-oil manufactured goods (based on domestic production) were replaced by equivalent tar iffs. Among the product items that are included on the negative list are certain food items, animal feed, cement, textiles, footwear, light fittings, electric ap- pliances, paper products, plastic goods, tires, steel and other metal products, and completely as- sembled motor vehicles; imports of these products require a specific license. Firearms, ammunition, and narcotics are either prohibited or rigidly con- trolled for security and health reasons. Imports of animal feed, flour, rice, petroleum, and edible oil are subject to state trading. All imports of food and drugs must satisfy prescribed standards. Imports of meat, live animals, and plants are subject to specific regulation, as are imports of mining materials. Licenses for imports of certain inputs for man- ufacturing industries are issued in conjunction with duty-free licenses granted to local concessionaire manufacturers. For these inputs, a specific license is not required for shipments of items on the negative list or for items that originate from or are consigned by sources f rom which all goods are subject to an import license. When specific import licenses are required, they must be obtained from the Ministry of Industry, Enterprise, and Tourism before orders are placed. Imports of certain food products are subject to the Agricultural Marketing Protocol of the CARICOM Treaty. Trade with South Africa is prohibited, and all imports from Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Poland, Romania, the former U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia are subject to specific licensing, irre- spective of the negative list status of the import concerned. At present, trade with these countries may be settled in U.S. dollars. Imports from all other countries may be paid for in any currency in which goods are satisfactorily invoiced. The customs duty rates on most goods range from 5 percent to 45 percent, which is the same range as the new common external tariff of the CARICOM region that entered into effect on Jan- uary 1, 1991.5 In addition, a second schedule in the form of surcharges on imports from non-CARicoM countries (of up to 100 percent of the c . i . f. value of imports) has been added to provide protection for items removed from the negative list. The duty rates on consumer goods, such as perfumes, cosmetics, jewelry, clothing, and cotton and silk fabrics, range between 30 percent and 60 percent; the rate on motor vehicles is 45 percent. Some foods tu f fs, fertil- izers, certain raw materials, and goods originating from CARICOM countries are exempted from customs duties. Local enterprises producing import substitutes or export goods may be granted partial or total exemptions from the customs duty by the Minister of Industry and Enterprise on the recom- mendation of the Industrial Development Corpora- tion (IDC). Stamp duties are levied on the c . i . f. value of imports at the rate of 10 percent for capital goods and 20 percent for other goods; basic foods tuffs, medicines, books, newsprint, and raw materials are exempted. Purchase taxes at rates ranging from 10 percent to 75 percent are levied on imported consumer goods. Certain domestically produced goods are also subject to the tax. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles require the spe- cific approval of the exchange control authorities. Payments for invisibles related to authorized im- ports are not restricted. Applications for foreign 5The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Ja- maica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO 491 exchange must be supported by appropr ia te doc- umen ta ry evidence. Payments for cu r rent in terna- tional transactions to South Afr ica are prohibited. Under au thor i ty delegated by the Central Bank, the authorized banks may approve applications for foreign exchange within prescribed limits for certain transactions in invisibles. The basic al- lowance for tourist travel is the equivalent of TT$2,500 a person a year (TT$730 for a one-day trip); for business travel, TT$430 a day for a max- imum of 30 days; and for health care, TT$12,000 a year. Annual allowances for education abroad are the equivalent of TT$8,000 for secondary schools, TT$24,000 for universities, and TT$2,500 for corre- spondence courses. Allowances of TT$2,000 once every two years are granted for warm clothing. If additional amoun ts are needed, the specific ap- proval of the authorities is required. Remittances of g if ts and donations require approval f rom the Central Bank. Residents and nonresidents may take out of Trinidad and Tobago local currency notes up to the value of TT$200. Travelers who are regarded as residents of Trinidad and Tobago may obtain part of their basic travel allowance in fore ign currency notes up to a max imum of TT$1,500. Nonresidents leaving Trinidad and Tobago are allowed to recon- vert Trinidad and Tobago dollar notes into fore ign currency up to the equivalent of TT$1,500 upon showing evidence of having previously sold for- eign currency to authorized dealers. Sums in ex- cess of TT$1,500 require the approval of the Cen- tral Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain goods usually require an indi- vidual license. These include some foods tuffs, fire- arms and explosives, animals, gold, and petroleum and petroleum products produced in Trinidad and Tobago, as well as specified products not produced locally. Exports of all other commodities are permit- ted by open general license. In addition, general licenses may be issued at the discretion of the Minis- try of Industry, Enterprise, and Tourism. Export proceeds received in foreign currencies must be surrendered, but exporters of certain goods, notably petroleum, may be authorized to retain abroad a portion of their proceeds. In prac- tice, the foreign-owned petroleum company operat- ing in Trinidad and Tobago repatriates all foreign exchange af ter providing for the equivalent of its local currency needs. The company must submit periodic documents of its exchange transactions to the authorities. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from current invisibles received in for- eign currencies must be surrendered. Residents and nonresidents may bring into Trinidad and To- bago domestic currency notes up to the value of TT$200. Foreign currency notes may be brought in by both resident and nonresident travelers. Capital Capital transfers from Trinidad and Tobago re- quire approval and generally are restricted. How- ever, repayment of commercial credits is permitted freely, and gifts to nonresidents and emigration al- lowances are approved up to specified limits; fur- thermore, as a matter of policy, capital transfers to other CARICOM countries are facilitated. Legacies may be repatriated in full. However, the Central Bank reserves the right to phase remittances up to a maximum of four years. Certain international in- stitutions may be permitted to borrow in Trinidad and Tobago on a case-by-case basis. Securities expressed in Trinidad and Tobago dollars and held by nonresidents must be lodged with an authorized depository, 24 of which have been appointed. Restrictions are placed on the importation and exportation of all securities other than those expressed in Trinidad and Tobago dollars. Proceeds from the sale of securities or other in- vestments owned by nonresidents of Trinidad and Tobago may be remitted with the approval of the Exchange Control Department. All foreign invest- ment, whether in cash or in kind, is normally eligi- ble for repatriation, provided it has been registered with the Central Bank. Hence, when funds are re- ceived for investment, local banks should authenti- cate the receipt of such funds from foreign sources. If the value of the asset concerned appreciates, the remittance of any funds in excess of the original investment will normally be phased over a period of time, depending on the balance of payments situation. Residents may transfer prescribed securities to persons who reside outside Trinidad and Tobago, with the prior approval of the exchange control au- thorities, provided that the full proceeds of sales are received in foreign currency. Foreign exchange is not normally provided for portfolio investment by residents in foreign securities, but when securities are sold or redeemed in a market outside Trinidad and Tobago, the proceeds may either be brought in and sold to an authorized dealer at the official mar- ket rate of exchange or, with the prior approval of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 492 TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO the exchange control authorities, be invested in sim- ilar securities outside Trinidad and Tobago. Non- residents may sell local securities, provided that the proceeds are credited to a nonresident account or reinvested in other local securities. The laws of Trinidad and Tobago do not discrimi- nate between nationals and foreigners in the forma- tion and operation of companies in the country. Foreigners are required, however, to comply with the provisions of the Foreign Investment Act of 1990, in order to hold an interest in real estate or to hold shares in local companies. Prospective foreign investors must obtain approval for their investment from the exchange control authorities to be able to repatriate capital and capital gains. The Government has enacted basic incentive leg- islation designed to attract domestic and foreign investment in manufacturing and in import- substitution industries. Since 1973, these policies have been effected within the framework of a CA- RICOM agreement on harmonization of fiscal incen- tives. Certain concessions may be granted to enter- prises declared to be approved enterprises. Concessions include temporary relief from import duties and taxes and other privileges. These are outlined in the Investment Policy document issued by the Industrial Development Corporation. There are limitations on the extent to which banks may grant financing to nonresident individuals and firms and to nonresident-controlled local com- panies. Such companies are normally required to raise any local capital needed to supplement their assets by issuing either shares or bonds to residents of Trinidad and Tobago. A commercial bank, as an authorized dealer, is allowed to hold an "open'7 asset or liability position in foreign exchange. Each com- mercial bank must maintain the monthly average of its net foreign exchange position within a specified quantitative ceiling. Cross-border trading is permitted among the resi- dents of Barbados, Jamaica, and Trinidad and To- bago in shares of companies listed on the respective stock exchanges; for exchange control purposes, participating residents and companies of the other two countries are designated as residents of Trin- idad and Tobago. Gold Gold is def ined by the Exchange Control Act of 1970 as gold coins and bullion. The regulations stipulate that, except with specific exemptions and permissions granted by the Minister of Fi- nance, (1) one pa r ty to every transaction in gold between residents must be an authorized bank; (2) gold held by residents must be surrendered to an authorized bank; and (3) gold may not be taken or sent out of Trinidad and Tobago. Residents are perm i t ted in appropr ia te cases, however, to pur- chase, hold, or sell gold coins in Trinidad and Tobago for numismatic purposes. Imports and exports of gold are controlled by the Ministry of Industry, Enterprise, and Tourism. Im- ports of gold jewelry are subject to an open general license, but imports of other forms of gold are sub- ject to specific import licenses, which are not nor- mally issued except to the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users. Exports of gold in any form are subject to specific export licenses; licenses for gold other than jewelry are not normally granted except to the monetary authorities. Changes During 1991 Imports and Import Payments January 1. The trade allocation certificate system for merchandise imports was abolished. Quan- titative restrictions representing approx ima te ly 40 percent of non-oil manu fac tu red goods were replaced by equivalent t a r i f fs ranging up to 60 percent and surcharges ranging up to 100 per- cent. The new common external t a r i ff of the CA- RICOM region, ranging f rom 5 percent to 45 per- cent, was in troduced. Capital April 1. Cross-border trading was permitted among the residents of Barbados, Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago in shares of companies listed on the respective stock exchanges; for exchange control purposes, participating residents and com- panies of the other two countries were designated as residents of Trinidad and Tobago. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Tunisia is the Tunisian Dinar, whose exchange value is determined according to a basket of currencies. The buying and selling rates for foreign currencies1 are fixed daily by the Central Bank of Tunisia. On December 31, 1991, the spot buying and selling rates of the dinar were D 0.16582 and D 0.16748 respectively, per F 1, and D 0.8602 and D 0.8688, respectively, per US$1. The buying and selling rates of authorized banks are identical to those of the Central Bank. Forward rates are set and published daily by the Central Bank. For both cash and loan transactions, importers and exporters are permitted to obtain forward exchange cover from the authorized banks as of the date the contract is signed or the date on which the foreign commercial paper is domiciled, depending on the arrangements for the product concerned. Forward cover may be established for a maximum of 12 months for imports and a maximum of 9 months for exports. Persons who provide ser- vices are eligible for exchange cover for up to 12 months, to be provided within 30 days of the date on which the claim originated. Currencies quoted for- ward are Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. Swaps are permitted among foreign currency operators. Trading on 3-, 6-, and 12-month foreign currency options on French francs, deutsche mark, and U.S. dollars is available to resident borrowers of foreign exchange under standard contracts. The Central Bank ex- tends exchange rate guarantees to certain officially guaranteed loans, with risk premiums based on domestic and international interest rates. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank of Tunisia; some authority over payments for imports and invisibles is delegated to the autho- 1 Currencies quoted spot and at bank note rates are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Libyan dinars, Moroccan dirhams, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U .A .E. dirhams, U.S. dollars, and European Currency Units (ECUs). Luxembourg francs, Qatar riyals, and CFA francs are quoted at bank note rates only; Algerian dinars are quoted spot only. rized banks. Foreign trade control is administered by the Ministry of Economy, in consultation with the Central Bank, for products that are subject to import or export prohibition or liberalization as well as for imports that are subject to quotas in accor- dance with the Government's overall program and its trade agreements with foreign countries. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of National Economy, with the endorsement of the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Settlements between Tunisia and foreign coun- tries are made in convertible currencies quoted by the Central Bank (see footnote 1) or in convertible Tunisian dinars through foreign accounts. Settle- ments between Tunisia and Algeria, the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mauritania, and Morocco may be effected through convertible ac- counts in the national currencies concerned at the respective central banks. Payments to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Special accounts in foreign currency or convertible dinars may be opened by (1) natural persons of Tuni- sian nationality changing their normal residence to Tunisia from abroad, natural or juridical persons of Tunisian nationality entitled to the exchange am- nesty provided under Law No. 86/83 of Septem- ber 1, 1986, and any other natural or juridical per- sons of Tunisian nationality for their assets legitimately acquired abroad; (2) natural persons of foreign nationality residing in Tunisia; and (3) for- eign juridical persons for their establishments lo- cated in Tunisia. No formalities are required for the opening of these accounts by foreigners; a declara- tion of holdings, however, is required for Tunisians. Funds legitimately acquired abroad, not from the exportation of goods or services from Tunisia, may be credited to these accounts. They may be debited for (1) foreign exchange surrendered to the Central Bank; (2) foreign exchange remitted to the account holder to undertake foreign travel; (3) amounts credited to another special account in foreign cur- rency or convertible dinars; and (4) any payments abroad (including those for the acquisition of mov- able or immovable tangible property located abroad, of ownership rights abroad, or of foreign claims). 493 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 494 TUNISIA Foreign accounts in convertible dinars and convertible currencies may be opened freely by all nonresidents regardless of nationality. (Residents are also autho- rized to open similar accounts under special regula- tions.) These accounts may be credited freely with (1) receipts in convertible foreign currencies or the dinar proceeds from sales of convertible currencies to the Central Bank of Tunisia; bank notes must be declared to customs; (2) convertible foreign curren- cies remitted to the account holder by a nonresi- dent; (3) foreign currency purchased from the Cen- tral Bank by debit of a foreign account in convertible dinars; (4) authorized payments by residents in favor of the account holder; (5) interest on balances in these accounts and interest payable by the autho- rized intermediaries on foreign exchange deposits in the accounts whenever they can use the funds thus deposited at remunerative rates; (6) transfers from other foreign accounts; and (7) the proceeds from the cashing of checks, traveler's checks, or drafts expressed in convertible currencies and made out by a nonresident to the order of the account holder. All other crediting requires prior authoriza- tion from the Central Bank, either direct or by dele- gation. These accounts may be debited freely for (1) payments of any kind in Tunisia (irrespective of the country of residence of the payer); (2) transfers to other foreign accounts; (3) the purchase of any foreign currency from, or sales of any foreign ex- change to, the Central Bank; and (4) transfers abroad or delivery of foreign currency to the ac- count holder, to any other nonresident beneficiary, or to residents with the status of permanent repre- sentatives or salaried employees of the account holder. Internal nonresident accounts are used by individ- uals of foreign nationality staying temporarily in Tunisia and receiving income in dinars; these ac- counts may be opened freely, but balances may be used only in Tunisia. These accounts may be cred- ited with the nontransferable portion (usually 50 percent) of the income earned in Tunisia. Any residual balance may not be transferred abroad without authorization. Interest is paid at rates com- parable to those applied to resident accounts in dinars. Special dinar accounts can be freely opened by non- resident foreign enterprises holding contracts in Tunisia approved by the Central Bank. Such enter- prises are authorized to open, for each contract, a single special account in dinars for deposit of the portion of the contract price payable in dinars to cover their local expenses. Such accounts may also be credited with funds from a foreign account in convertible dinars, the dinar equivalent of foreign currency drawn on a foreign account in convertible foreign currency, the dinar equivalent of any trans- fer in convertible foreign currency from abroad, and interest accruing on funds deposited in the account. The account may be freely debited for the enter- prise's contract-related expenses in Tunisia. Any transfer operations from such accounts must be authorized by the Central Bank. Interest is paid at rates comparable to those applied to resident accounts in dinars. Suspense accounts may be opened by all nonresi- dents regardless of nationality and may be used for crediting all proceeds accruing to nonresidents and awaiting utilization. These proceeds may, upon gen- eral or specific approval, be used in Tunisia for spe- cific purposes, be transferred abroad, or transferred to other nonresident accounts. Subject to certain conditions, suspense accounts may be debited, without the prior authorization of the Central Bank, for purchases of Tunisian securities, subscriptions to issues of short-term debentures or bonds, port- folio management expenses in respect of certain securities, payments to the Tunisian Government or public institutions, or payments of the expenses of managing securities deposited in a suspense file opened in the name of the account holder. They may also be debited for settlement of living expenses incurred in Tunisia by the account holder or his family up to D 100 a person a week, provided that the total withdrawals in any calendar year from one or more accounts do not exceed D 2,000 a family. In addition, a suspense account holder traveling in Tunisia between November 1 and March 31 may withdraw from the account an amount equal to the foreign exchange imported for the trip and surren- dered to the Central Bank, an authorized intermedi- ary, or a subagency, provided that total withdrawals for the living expenses of the account holder or his family do not exceed D 2,000 a year. Natural persons of foreign nationality may transfer abroad assets that they hold if these did not exceed D 1,000 on De- cember 31, 1973 or D 2,000 on May 31, 1975. Up to D 50 a person a month may be debited to assist the offspring or parents of the resident account holder. Individuals or juridical persons of French or Italian nationality holding suspense accounts may transfer the funds in their accounts regardless of the date of deposit. These accounts do not pay interest. Capital accounts may be opened in the name of a resident of any foreign country. The opening of a capital account by a nonresident of Tunisian na- tionality or his spouse must be authorized by the Central Bank. Foreign banks may hold global capital accounts for their nonresident customers. Subject to certain conditions, capital accounts may be cred- ited, without the prior approval of the Central Bank, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 495 with the proceeds of the sale on the stock exchange, or of the contractual or advance redemption, of Tunisian securities; the sales proceeds of real estate through an attorney at the Supreme Court (Cour de Cassation), or rights to real estate situated in Tunisia; and with funds from another capital ac- count. Irrespective of the account holder's country of residence, capital accounts may be freely debited for the living expenses in Tunisia of the account holder and his family, up to D 100 a person a week, provided that total withdrawals from one or more capital accounts in a calendar year do not exceed D 2,000 a family. In addition, a capital account holder traveling in Tunisia between November 1 and March 31 may withdraw from the account an amount equal to the foreign exchange imported for the trip and surrendered to the Central Bank, an authorized intermediary, or a subagency, provided that total withdrawals for the living expenses of the account holder or his family do not exceed D 2,000 a year. Such accounts may also be debited, subject to certain conditions, for expenses connected with the management of Tunisian securities; for the mainte- nance, repair, and insurance of real estate and all taxes; and for transfer to the credit of another capital account. Balances on capital accounts are freely transferable between nonresidents of foreign na- tionality, with the exception of juridical persons gov- erned by public law. Subject to certain conditions, they may also be debited to assist the account holder's parents and offspring residing in Tunisia, at a maximum rate of D 50 a person a month. These accounts do not pay interest and cannot be over- drawn. Balances held by natural persons of foreign nationality and not exceeding D 1,000 on Decem- ber 31,1973 or D 2,000 on May 31,1975 are transfer- able abroad. Individuals and juridical persons of French or Italian nationality holding capital ac- counts may transfer the funds in their accounts regardless of the date of deposit. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South Africa and im- ports of some items from all sources are prohibited. A system of import controls is applied under which there are d ifferent procedures for different opera- tors (manufacturers, traders, and state monopolies) and special procedures for specified categories of transactions (for example, export firms and imports without payment from official foreign exchange). Imports may be effected freely or upon authoriza- tion. The relevant regime is prescribed by Annex I of the Notice to Importers and Exporters, published in Official Gazette No. 75 of November 27, 1981, as amended subsequently. The importation of liber- alized products is effected by an import certificate, obtained upon presentation of a commercial con- tract, domiciled with an authorized intermediary. The import certificate procedure may be used under certain conditions by industrial enterprises that ex- port 15 percent or more of their output for imports of prohibited products. These include raw materials and semifinished products used in their produc- tion; enterprises exporting less than 15 percent of their output may also use this procedure for imports not exceeding the value of their exports. The import certificate procedure may also be used by invest- ment promoters of authorized or declared invest- ments for normally prohibited imports of capital goods that are required for their projects. These capital goods may be imported by commercial re- presentatives in Tunisia in accordance with the pro- cedures that are applied to suppliers and leasing companies. The importation of authorized goods is effec ted under cover of an import license, annual import authorization, or an import card. Licenses are ap- proved and issued by the Ministry of Economy and endorsed by the Central Bank. Import licenses are usually valid for six months, but extension may be granted in some cases according to import require- ments. Under the licensing system, a system of "traders' quotas" is also applied to certain com- modity groups with special emphasis on consumer durables. Quotas are allocated on the basis of a "point system," with the most important criteria relating to the size of the firm (employment and turnover, which differentiates between sales from imports and those from domestically produced goods). Geographical location, the degree of spe- cialization, and the age of the firm are also consid- ered in the allocation process. Annual import authorizations are issued by the Ministry of National Economy to certain catego- ries of transactions on the basis of an annual im- port program. Import applications under the pro- gram must include a detailed documen t, giving information on expected import requ iremen ts for the following year, on the actual consumption of imported inpu ts in the previous year, and on sales, production, employment, import prices, and the firm's financial position. Annual import authorizations are given for a global limit, ex- pressed in dinars; they are valid for one year with an au toma t ic extension of the portion unused on December 31 of that year for an additional one- year period. W i thout prior authorization, im- por ters may, in certain cases, subs t i tu te the prod- ucts authorized for other produc ts within the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 496 TUNISIA overall limit stipulated in their import authoriza- tions. Dur ing the year, they may also request addi- tional imports by documen t ing the use of the amount allotted them. Import cards are issued to importers in certain sectors. These are available to importers in produc- tive sectors of economic activity (for example, cot- tage craft industry and agriculture) to import goods up to a limit of D 1,000 a year. With prior authoriza- tion, imports of raw materials, semifinished prod- ucts, spare parts, and equipment, paid from sources outside Tunisia, may be effected without foreign trade formalities by enterprises for their own use up to a value of D 100,000. Furthermore, manufacturing industries producing exclusively for exportation and covered by Title 2 of Law No. 87-51 may import freely without foreign trade formalities any goods required for their production process, subject only to customs declaration. State trading organizations are the exclusive im- porters of about 25 percent of the total value of imports, and about 40 percent of these imports con- sist of energy products. Among the important pub- lic trading agencies are the Commerce Office (for sugar, coffee, tea), the Office des cereales (grains), Ellouhoum (meat), and the Office national de 1'huile (vegetable oil). In addition, certain food items, to- bacco, and medical products are imported ex- clusively by other state agencies. The state trading commissions meet periodically to decide on the ap- propriateness and timing of imports of specified products. State trading agencies are required to complete the same foreign trade formalities as those that apply to the private sector. Importers must receive a customs code number before they can obtain an import certificate, an import authorization, an import license, or an import card. All import documents involving payments must be handled by one or more authorized banks. Foreign currency may be purchased from the Central Bank or a delegated commercial bank for all payments that have received general or specific prior authorization. Resident importers are authorized to buy forward foreign currencies required for future settlement of their merchandise imports, for a maximum term of 12 months, at rates established daily by the Central Bank. In addition to customs duties, imports are sub- ject to the value-added tax and, in some cases, to the consumption tax. In specified cases, imports destined for domestic investment projects are eligible for full or partial exemption from import duties. Payments for Invisibles In principle, all payments for invisibles require the approval of the Central Bank, for which proper documentation is required. These transactions in- clude (1) various payments related to international trade (for example, port services, warehousing, commissions, and brokerage); and (2) payments for processing, repair, assembly, royalties, patents and trademarks, fines, and court expenses. The follow- ing transactions have been delegated to authorized intermediaries: (1) payment of interest and amortiz- ation arising from authorized contractual obliga- tions to nonresidents; (2) insurance premiums; (3) subscriptions; (4) dividends and other payments to nonresidents of firms quoted on the stock market or governed by one of the codes that promote in- vestment in Tunisia, or for which exports represent at least 15 percent of turnover in the financial year in which the profits are distributed, or in which at least 50 percent of the capital is held by residents; and (5) school fees and expenses. Approval is granted to freely remit dividends, fees, and remunerations (net of taxes) to nonresi- dents. Interest payments on foreign loans, the con- tracting of which is subject to authorization by the Central Bank, are unrestricted. Exporters may debit their professional accounts (dossiers professionnels) without prior authorization (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below) to effect payments for the activities for which ac- counts have been permitted to be maintained. Resi- dent enterprises producing for export within the framework of Title 2 of Law No. 87-51 may freely make payments abroad for their production ac- tivities, which are not subject to the restrictions that apply to payments for invisibles. The convertible dinar balances in exporting enterprises' business travel accounts and in the professional accounts of exporters, hotels, and providers of services may be transferred up to a ceiling of D 60,000 without re- striction depending on the value of export sales. Amounts not used during a given year may be car- ried forward to the next two years as long as the total of such transfers does not exceed authorized ceil- ings in any one year. Authorized exchange estab- lishments (sons delegataines de change) may open pro- fessional accounts, which may be credited with 4 percent of the proceeds of the transfer to autho- rized intermediaries of the foreign exchange ac- quired from nonresident customers, and they may be debited up to D 2,000 a year to meet business travel expenses. The Central Bank may make a business travel allocation to industrialists and businessmen whose professional activity requires travel abroad and who are unable to open professional or business travel accounts under Law No. 87-51 and to exporters promoting marketing of their exports. The max- imum allocation for exporters is D 3,000 and is made ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 497 only once; the allocation for industrialists and busi- nessmen is determined initially by the Central Bank for each beneficiary at the time of approval, taking into account the applicant's import turnover. There- after, the annual amount of the allocation is deter- mined by the authorized intermediary in which the authorization is domiciled on the basis of the same criteria. Payments for certain other current invisibles are approved up to fixed limits. Residents traveling abroad as tourists are entitled once a year to an exchange allocation equivalent to D 200 a person (D 100 for children under 10 years of age). The allocation may be accumulated for two consecutive years. The annual settlement allowance for students is the equivalent of D 500 for all countries; the monthly foreign exchange allowance for educational expenses abroad is D 400 or D 240 depending on the host country. Contractually employed foreign na- tionals, salaried workers who are nationals of Tunisia, foreign experts employed by the public sec- tor, and technical assistants may transfer their monthly salaries abroad up to the limits specified in their contracts. Regardless of nationality, residents traveling abroad by air or sea, except to the countries of the Arab Maghreb Union, are subject to a travel tax of D 45 a trip. Nonresidents, diplomats, persons trav- eling under the Agence de cooperation technique, emigrant workers, a man or woman residing in Tunisia whose spouse resides abroad, children liv- ing in Tunisia one or both of whose parents reside abroad, students, pilgrims to Mecca, and those traveling for medical reasons are exempted from the tax. The exportation of Tunisian dinar bank notes is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Most exports are liberalized, but certain non-energy exports (amounting to about 10 percent of the total in 1990) require export licenses issued by the Ministry of National Economy. With the excep- tions noted below, all export proceeds must be re- patriated and surrendered, normally within 10 days of the date payment is due. If no credit is extended, payment is due within 30 days of the date of ship- ment. Under certain conditions, central bank ap- proval is not required for the extension of export credits of up to 180 days. Resident exporters may sell forward, for a maximum term of 9 months (12 months for providers of services), foreign curren- cies representing the proceeds from their merchan- dise exports through authorized intermediaries. Any resident individual, Tunisian, or foreign le- gal entity with foreign exchange receipts deriving from professional activity may freely open a profes- sional account in convertible dinars and deposit therein 10 percent of any foreign exchange pro- ceeds; balances on such an account may be used without restriction. The same account may be used for 4 percent of domestic receipts in dinars from sales to resident industrial enterprises producing solely for exportation and to resident international trade firms. Authorized intermediaries may grant any surety or guarantee to resident exporters and providers of services according to standard interna- tional trade practices. Resident manufacturing in- dustries that produce exclusively for exportation and are approved under the terms of Title 2 of Law No. 87-51 may arrange to credit 4 percent of their repatriated convertible currency export proceeds to business travel portfolios in convertible dinars. "Professional accounts'7 in foreign currency may be opened by exporters (excluding those in the chemi- cal or energy sectors) who export 15 percent or more of their output and may be credited with 20 percent of their foreign exchange earnings. Balances on these accounts may be used principally to finance imports of goods and services, repay credits in for- eign exchange, and invest on the foreign exchange market. Professional accounts in convertible dinars may be opened with the Central Bank's authoriza- tion by resident individuals and legal entities with resources in foreign exchange. These accounts may be credited and debited in accordance with terms laid down by the Central Bank in the authorization to open such accounts. Professional accounts for foreign trade in foreign exchange may be opened by resident international trade firms. These accounts are intended to cover the overheads and payments associated with international trade brokerage and foreign investment operations. Under the provisions of Title 2 of Law No. 87-51 and Law No. 88-110, nonresident manufacturing enterprises and nonresident international trading companies (that is, enterprises with at least 66 per- cent capital ownership by nonresidents and fi- nanced through the importation of convertible cur- rencies) and nonresident service companies are exempted from the requirement of repatriation and surrender of export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents must repatriate and surrender all amounts derived from services rendered to persons residing abroad and also all other income or pro- ceeds from invisibles received from foreign coun- tries. However, certain facilities are associated with ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 498 TUNISIA professional accounts and with professional ac- counts in foreign exchange for such proceeds or resources (see sections on Exports and Export Pro- ceeds and Resident and Nonresident Accounts — specifically, professional accounts in convertible dinars or in foreign exchange—above). Foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) may be brought in freely; nonresident travelers wishing to re-export the equivalent of more than D 500 must make a currency declaration upon entry. The recon- version of Tunisian bank notes by nonresident trav- elers is not limited if the stay does not exceed 24 hours and is limited to D 100 if the stay exceeds 24 hours. The importation of Tunisian dinar bank notes and coins is prohibited. Capital Foreign investment in Tunisia may, in accordance with the sector involved, obtain the benefits pro- vided for by the Investment Code (Law No. 69-35); Law No. 85-108 of December 6, 1985, concerning incentives for financial and banking establishments conducting business essentially with nonresidents; Law No. 87-51 of August 2, 1987, establishing the Industrial Investment Code; Law No. 88-110 of Au- gust 18, 1988, providing incentives for international trading companies; Law No. 88-18 of April 2, 1988, promulgating the Investment, Agricultural, and Fisheries Code; Law No. 89-100 of November 17, 1989, establishing investment incentives in the ser- vices area; and Law No. 90-21 of March 19, 1990, providing incentives for investment in tourism. These benefits include a number of tax facilities as well as a guarantee of the right to repatriate invested capital in foreign exchange and the net proceeds from its sale or liquidation, even if these exceed the initial foreign exchange investment, plus the in- come f rom its capital. The transfer of principal is subject to authorization. However, dividends, fees, and remunerations for founders' shares (net of taxes) distributed by companies listed on the stock exchange, companies governed by one of the laws concerning the promotion of investment in Tunisia, companies for which exports represent 15 percent or more of turnover, and companies in which 50 per- cent or more of the capital is held by residents may be freely transferred to nonresident stockholders by an authorized intermediary. Law No. 85-108 of De- cember 6, 1985, concerning incentives for financial and banking establishments conducting business essentially with nonresidents, extended the field of activity of such institutions; and they are authorized to exchange cash and traveler's checks for their non- resident customers and to engage in banking and exchange operations with residents, in particular by providing foreign exchange financing for foreign trade operations, investing their own foreign ex- change resources in equities of resident enterprises, and accepting funds from residents that can be used to finance productive activities in Tunisia. Foreign nationals who have been residents of Tunisia and have left Tunisia permanently are en- titled to transfer the following: 50 percent of their assets (with a minimum of D 1,750 and a maximum of D 3,500) if they left Tunisia before August 20, 1970;2 D 4,000 if they left between August 20, 1970 and December 31,1973; D 5,000 if they left between January 1, 1974 and December 31, 1974; D 10,000 if they left af ter December 31, 1974; D 15,000 if they left Tunisia af ter December 31, 1978, are over 60 years of age, and are Tunisian nationals; and an unlimited amount if they are of French or Italian nationality regardless of their date of departure from Tunisia. All capital transfers by residents, the contracting of foreign loans by residents, and the extension of loans to nonresidents require the approval of the Central Bank, except investment credits granted by resident banks to nonresident enterprises (Title 2 of Law No. 87-51) out of their external resources. Gold Five denominations of commemorative gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may acquire and hold gold in any form in Tunisia. The Central Bank has a monopoly over the importation and exportation of monetary gold. Other imports of gold require joint authorization from the Central Bank and the Ministry of National Economy. Only dentists and specified cooperatives of industrial users are eligible to purchase gold from the Central Bank. The exportation of gold is prohibited. Changes During 1991 Imports and Import Payments January 1. Law 90-111, with the following main provisions, came into effect: (1) introduction of tem- porary compensatory import duties, ranging from 10 percent to 30 percent for a limited range of finished and semifinished products; (2) reduction of the customs duties on raw materials and semi- finished products; and (3) extension of the suspen- sion of and reduction in customs duties on the im- ports of certain raw materials and articles until De- cember 31, 1991. 2Such persons may transfer D 1,750 if the total value of their assets does not exceed D 3,500. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 499 April 30. The conditions and modalities for imple- menting the provisions of Chapter II, Paragraph 7.2 of the preliminary provisions of the import duty tariff structure promulgated by Law No. 89-113 of December 30, 1989 were announced (Decree No. 91-811). June 17. Certain customs duties and taxes on im- ports of raw materials and products intended for the crafts industry were suspended (Decree No. 91-941). August 2. Certain customs duties and taxes on imports of raw materials and products intended for the crafts industry were suspended (Decree No. 91-1164). August 2. Customs duties were reduced, the con- sumption tax was levied, and the value-added tax was suspended on imports of automobiles to be used as taxis or rental vehicles (Decree No. 91-1165). September 9. The value-added tax on the importa- tion and sale of medicines intended for human or veterinary use was suspended (Decree No. 91-1342). Payments for Invisibles January 29. Circular No. 91-02 on the delegation of powers to authorized dealers to grant expense al- locations for mission and training expenses abroad was published. August 9. Circular No. 91-15 on transfers for edu- cational expenses and student installation expenses abroad was published. November 8. The Exchange Notice of the Minister of Finance amending Exchange Notice No. 14 on professional accounts and business travel al- lowances was issued. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Turkey is the Turkish Lira. The Turkish authorities do not observe margins in re- spect of exchange transactions, and Turkey follows a flexible exchange rate policy under which the ex- change rate for the Turkish lira against the U.S. dol- lar is determined in the daily fixing sessions held in the Central Bank. Commercial banks, special fi- nance institutions, authorized institutions, and the Central Bank can participate in the daily fixing ses- sion by giving two-way quotations with spreads between the purchase and sale prices not exceeding 0.25 percent for a sum of $400,000. Once the Turkish lira exchange rate for the U.S. dollar is determined in the fixing session, ex- change rates for other currencies are set on the basis of their cross rate relationship with the U.S. dollar in international markets. These rates then become the official exchange rate of the following day and are used in the Central Bank's transactions and for offi- cial, statistical purposes. Commercial banks, spe- cial financial institutions, and authorized institu- tions are free to set their exchange rates once a day in respect of foreign exchange transactions not exceed- ing $3,000, and are required to inform the Central Bank. In foreign exchange transactions exceeding $3,000, the exchange rate for each transaction is also determined freely between these institutions and the parties concerned. The lowest and highest rates applied in these transactions must be reported daily to the Central Bank. The commercial banks are also free to establish their own buying and selling rates in the interbank market. Foreign exchange transactions between the Central Bank and the commercial banks take place through the interbank market. In order to facilitate quotations of interbank rates during the day, as well as during the week, both one-way and two-way quotations are in operation. On December 31,1991, the Central Bank's official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were LT 5,074.83 and LT 5,085.00, respectively, per US$1. On December 31, 1991, the average rate in the interbank market for the U.S. dollar was LT 5,107.40 per US$1. The commercial banks can deal freely in forward transactions within the predetermined limits im- posed by the Central Bank. Forward exchange rates are freely established between the banks and their customers in accordance with international prac- tices. Banks enter into swap transactions with the Central Bank with terms of quarterly periods up to 12 months. Turkey formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from March 22, 1990. Administration of Control Exchange and trade controls are the responsibil- ity of the Prime Ministry, to which the Under- secretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade is at- tached. Administration of exchange controls has been delegated to the Central Bank, which regu- lates all matters related to foreign exchange opera- tions. All commercial banks have been authorized by the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade to engage in foreign exchange operations on their own account. Export registration is carried out by trade organizations, according to instructions from the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade. The Undersecretariat also issues export li- censes but may delegate this authority to the rele- vant trade organizations. Prescription of Currency Certain commercial transactions with Czechoslo- vakia, Poland, and the former U.S.S.R. are made through special accounts denominated in U.S. dol- lars. Settlements with all other countries are made in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open accounts denominated in foreign exchange and Turkish liras with autho- rized commercial banks. Such accounts are dispos- able at the discretion of the holders. Imports and Import Payments All goods are free ly importable, except for those explicitly prohibited by special laws, such as nar- cotics, stereopter, weapons, foreign coins made of silver and other metals (excluding foreign coins made of gold), and ammun i t ion. Impor ts of these goods are allowed only with a special permit f rom the authorities. Old, used and reconditioned, de- fective, subs tandard, soiled, or poor quality goods may be imported only with special permis- sion f rom the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade; when such goods are needed for a 500 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY 501 pro ject (except wasted and residual goods), per- mission may be given by the State Planning Organization. All commercial imports require import licenses, the valid period of which depends upon the declara- tion of the authorized parties. The validity may be extended according to principles determined by the Central Bank. Import licenses are issued to regis- tered importers, industrialists, state economic en- terprises, and government departments. No special permit is required for any authorized person to ap- ply to any bank for an import license. The import license permits the necessary foreign exchange pay- ments to be made and permits goods to be cleared through customs. Payments for imports may be made against letters of credit, documents, or goods (that is, upon customs clearance), or by way of ac- ceptance credits. Partial prepayments are autho- rized under certain conditions. Since June 1991, importers of capital goods have been allowed to finance their imports directly from their private foreign exchange deposit accounts held with banks. At the same time, exporters and providers of services have been allowed to use freely foreign exchange earned from exports of goods (ex- cluding the portion subject to surrender require- ments) and services for payment of their own imports. Regulations concerning imports without alloca- tion of foreign exchange from the banking system mainly affect imports of goods for personal or pro- fessional use by travelers domiciled in Turkey, and temporary imports by Turkish workers employed abroad and maintaining foreign exchange accounts with the Central Bank. Customs duties are based on the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System. The rates range mostly up to 10 percent on raw mate- rials, between 10 percent and 30 percent on inter- mediate and semifinished produc ts, and between 30 percent and 50 percent on finished goods. Higher rates apply to certain consumer goods considered luxuries. Imported goods are also sub- ject to (1) a municipal tax of 15 percent of the applicable customs duty; (2) a stamp du ty of 10 percent of the declared value; and (3) a trans- portation in f ra s t ruc tu re du ty of 3 percent on the sum of the c . i . f. value, the customs duty, the mu- nicipal tax, the combined costs of transportation by air, railway, and road, and the customs clear- ance expense (the du ty rate is 4 percent if trans- portation is by sea). Certain goods are subject to various ra tes of levy, which are t ran s fe r red to ex- trabudge tary f u n ds ( " funds list"). Payments for Invisibles Residents may freely make payments for invisible transactions relating to all services to nonresidents at home or abroad. All residents traveling abroad may carry foreign currency notes up to the equivalent of $5,000 a person without proof of exchange allocation by commercial banks, and banks are permitted to sell foreign exchange to residents and nonresidents without restriction. Foreign currency notes in ex- cess of $5,000 or its equivalent can be taken out of the country, provided it is documented that they have been purchased from commercial banks. Turk- ish citizens traveling abroad are subject to a tax equivalent to $100, payable in Turkish liras, regard- less of whether there are related purchases of for- eign exchange; the tax is reduced by one half for travelers 18 years or younger. Individuals engaged in border trade with the permission of the governor of the province concerned and immigrants and re- fugees traveling abroad are required to pay the tax in Turkish liras equivalent to $25 and $50, respec- tively. Exempted from payment of this tax are (1) all foreign nationals; (2) first-time pilgrims to Mecca; (3) Turkish workers employed abroad and their fam- ilies; (4) crews of ships and planes and truck drivers; (5) those living in border areas and who may leave the country by administrative permits; (6) those going abroad for medical treatment and their es- corts; (7) private students going abroad for educa- tion purposes; and (8) civil servants (and their fam- ilies) sent abroad on permanent assignment. Travelers are permitted to take out up to the equivalent of $5,000 in foreign currency notes and Turkish lira notes and coins. Turkish workers em- ployed abroad and persons domiciled abroad may freely take abroad with them foreign exchange in excess of $5,000 or its equivalent, provided that they declared such amounts on arrival. Exports and Export Proceeds Commercial exports are classified into the follow- ing categories: (1) free exports (that is, exports not requiring any official permission); (2) exports sub- ject to registration, which covers exports of goods for which payments are made from or premiums are paid to the Support and Price Stabilization Fund, raw materials for textiles, all kinds of textiles and garments, raw and finished leather, leather gar- ments and other leather products, semiproduced steel and iron products, natural gas under agree- ment with the former U.S.S.R., products to which quantitative restrictions are applied, and raw vege- table oils and oil seeds (including olive oil). The ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 502 TURKEY 'Tree Export Declarations'' related to the goods that fall into this category must be registered by the professional institutions, Undersecretariat of the Treasury and Foreign Trade and/or the customs ad- ministration upon the application of the exporter; (3) exports subject to the permission of the Under- secretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade or the professional institutions authorized by the Trea- sury. These include exports on credit, consignment exports and temporary exports, exports to be under- taken by the construction companies that are awarded construction and installation work abroad, or exports intended for participation in international fairs and exhibitions. All companies are allowed to conduct barter trade in accordance with established procedures. There is a surrender requirement for foreign ex- change receipts from merchandise exports, and the maximum period allowed for the surrender is 180 days from the date of shipment. If exchange receipts are surrendered within 90 days of the date of export shipment, exporters are entitled to retain 30 percent of proceeds, which they may deposit in foreign exchange accounts with commercial banks, keep abroad, or dispose of freely. Commercial banks are required to sell to the Central Bank a specified per- centage of all foreign exchange they obtain from exports and invisible transactions within a period agreed with the Central Bank. The ratio has been lowered in steps over the years and has been 20 per- cent since November 1989. The Turkish Eximbank administers subsidized credit programs for certain exporters. The Ex- imbank also promotes exports by providing insur- ance against commercial and political risks on com- mercial terms. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents may accept foreign currency from non- residents for transactions processed in Turkey. For- eign exchange earned by residents in exchange for services they have rendered to nonresidents or on behalf of them in Turkey or abroad (including con- tracting services), as well as foreign exchange corre- sponding to expenses incurred in the name and on behalf of nonresidents, can be disposed of freely. Capital Nonresident individuals and corporations wish- ing to invest in Turkey must import the required capital in kind or in the form of foreign exchange and must obtain a license from the Foreign Capital Department of the State Planning Organization. In establishing partnerships or joint companies in the sectors open to the Turkish private sector, foreign investors must bring in a minimum of $50,000 of capital. Certain investments are allowed under the provisions of the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Investments or the Petroleum Law. Profits and dividends and the proceeds from sales and liquidation of foreign capital may be transferred abroad and must be reported to the Central Bank. Resident individuals or corporations may invest abroad and in the free zones in Turkey up to the equivalent of $5 million in cash or in kind. The exportation of capital in amounts ranging from the equivalent of $5 million to $50 million re- quires the approval of the Undersecretariat of Trea- sury and Foreign Trade. Capital exports of larger amounts must be approved by the Council of Minis- ters. Nonresidents may transfer abroad, without restriction, proceeds from sales of real estate. Pur- chases and sales by nonresidents of Turkish se- curities, including mutual funds, quoted in the stock exchange or issued with the permission of the Capital Market Board and all securities issued by public institutions through the intermediary in- stitutions operating in Turkey under the Capital Market Law including banks, may be made freely. The transfer of the income from such securities and the proceeds from their sale are free through banks and special finance institutions. Purchases and sales by residents of foreign securities quoted on foreign stock exchanges and of treasury bills and government bonds that are denominated in ap- proved currencies are also free, provided that the transactions are carried out by banks and special finance institutions. Residents may also issue and sell securities in the financial markets abroad. Commercial banks may open foreign exchange accounts for residents or nonresidents. Funds in such accounts may be freely disposed of by the holders, and interest rates and other conditions on the above accounts are freely negotiable between the parties. Commercial banks are free to conduct foreign exchange transactions according to their needs. In addition, banks are free to operate within the margins of certain ratios set by the Central Bank. The liquidity ratio, under which banks hold foreign exchange assets against foreign exchange liabilities, may not be less than 20 percent. The ratio of all foreign-currency-denominated assets to the sum of foreign currency deposits plus foreign exchange overdrafts and foreign exchange loans received from abroad is subject to an exchange rate risk ratio requirement. This ratio is calculated on the basis of three categories: the U.S. dollar, the deutsche mark, and the U.S. dollar equivalent of other convertible currencies. The exchange rate risk used in relation ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY 503 to foreign exchange position management is 80 per- cent (minimum) and 120 percent (maximum) for each category and 85 percent (minimum) and 115 percent (maximum) for the U.S. dollar equiv- alent of the total amount concerned.1 Gold The Central Bank of Turkey is authorized to im- port gold into Turkey and to conduct purchase and sale transactions with the public without restriction. A gold market is established in the Central Bank, in which gold conforming to international standards is sold to the banks and authorized institutions in ex- change for foreign currency. Banks and authorized institutions, in turn, sell gold to the public in ex- change for Turkish liras. Since June 1991, the expor- tation and importation of gold (except for un- wrought gold) have been allowed within a framework established in the export and import regimes. The importation of unwrought gold is sub- ject to provisions specified by the Central Bank. The importation and exportation of processed precious metals, stones, and goods for commercial purposes are not restricted. Travelers may bring into or take out of Turkey precious metals or stones in their personal possession with a value up to $15,000. Exports or imports of metals or stones exceeding this value are subject to declaration. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement June 20. Nonresidents were allowed to purchase foreign exchange from banks and other authorized dealers in Turkey and transfer it abroad without limitation. Nonresidents were also allowed to trans- fer Turkish liras abroad through banks and autho- rized institutions without limitation. June 20. The Postal, Telephone, and Telegram Ad- ministration (PTT) was authorized to conduct for- eign exchange transactions. Imports and Import Payments January 1. The rates of customs duty and Mass Housing Fund levies were consolidated into a single tariff rate. Certain changes were made in levies for the extrabudgetary funds, including the Support and Price Stabilization Fund. !With e f fect from April 1, 1992, the ratio has been 75 percent (minimum) and 115 percent (maximum) for each category and 80 percent (minimum) and 110 percent (maximum) for the U.S. dollar equivalent of the total amoun t. June 20. Banks were permitted to extend foreign exchange credits to residents in Turkey for the fi- nancing of capital goods imports; they were also permitted to extend such credits for working capital purposes, provided that up to one third of the credit they extend would be used for the financing of capital goods imports. Importers of capital goods were allowed to fi- nance their imports directly from their private for- eign exchange deposit accounts held with banks. Exporters, tourism enterprises, international transporters, and contractors were allowed to pay for imports from foreign exchange earned from their activities. December 12. Turkey and EFTA countries signed a free trade and cooperation agreement under which Turkey would apply to industrial imports from EFTA countries the customs reductions it has pledged to apply to similar imports from EC countries. December 21. The levy on imports of petroleum products for the Support and Price Stabilization Fund was reduced to 15 percent from 20 percent, and the levy on imports of petroleum was fixed at between 20 percent and 40 percent. Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. The tax deducibility of export earnings was reduced to 16 percent from 18 percent. February 5. The incentive scheme for free trade zones and the tourism sector was amended to en- courage investment. June 20. The requirement that the exchange rate to be applied to export proceeds surrendered af ter the expiry of the 180-day period must be the rate of the date of expiry of the 180-day period was relaxed for cases where force majeure conditions caused the de- lay, and in such cases the rate on the date of sur- render may be used. August 16. An announcement was made that the corporate tax exemption on export earnings would be reduced on a retroactive basis from January 1, 1991, with effect from October 31, 1991. August 20. The number of products eligible to receive premium payments from the Support and Price Stabilization Fund was increased. Direct mon- etary payments, including the Support and Price Stabilization Fund premiums were eliminated, and financing by the Support and Price Stabilization Fund through the Turkish Eximbank was introduced. December 12. Turkey and EFTA countries signed a free trade and cooperation agreement under which EFTA countries undertook to remove customs du- ties and other charges on industrial imports from ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 504 TURKEY Turkey, except for textiles and ready-made gar- ments. The import duties on textiles and ready- made garments would be reduced gradually and eliminated by 1996. Capital June 20. Residents in Turkey were permitted to sell freely abroad securities issued by companies in Turkey; banks were allowed to extend foreign ex- change credits to other banks without maturity re- striction; residents in Turkey were allowed to issue sureties and guarantees in foreign currency; the minimum capital requirement for companies autho- rized to conduct foreign exchange transactions was raised to LT 2 billion; and banks and foreign ex- change dealers were required to notify the au- thorities within 30 days of any transfers in excess of $50,000 or its equivalent that are unrelated to for- eign trade or invisible transactions. Gold June 20. The exportation and importation of gold (except for unwrought gold) were permitted within the framework established in the export and import regimes, and the importation of unwrought gold was subject to provisions specified by the Central Bank. Exporters of unwrought gold were not required to repatriate foreign exchange proceeds to Turkey. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement1 The currency of Uganda is the Uganda Shilling. There are two exchange markets: the official and the foreign exchange bureau markets. The external value of the official rate is determined on the basis of a trade-weighted basket of currencies. The ex- change rate in the foreign exchange bureau market is determined by supply and demand conditions. On December 31, 1991, the official buying and sell- ing rates were U Sh 900.86 and U Sh 936.96, respec- tively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the cross rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in the international market. In its foreign exchange dealings, the Bank of Uganda charges a commission of 1.4 percent buying and 2.6 percent selling. Authorized commercial banks in Uganda deal in all specified currencies at rates quoted by the Bank of Uganda or, for a currency not quoted, at rates calculated according to prevailing cross rates.2 Authorized foreign exchange bureaus are permitted to buy and sell foreign exchange at market- determined rates. At present, the official rate is applied to all government imports, debt-service payments, imports of oil, and imports financed by official foreign exchange supplied by donors under the open general license (OGL) system, and the special import program (SIP). Proceeds from coffee exports and official loans and grants are channeled through the official market. All other transactions can take place at the bureau rate. Authorized banks may, subject to exchange control approval, deal for- ward with customers in pounds sterling, U.S. dol- lars, and certain other convertible currencies, pro- vided that there is an underlying approved import or export contract. Authorized foreign exchange dealers impose a service charge of not more than 1.5 percent. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no aOn January 31, 1992, the authorities replaced the official exchange rate system with an auction system under which exter- nal aid funds for imports are allocated through a Dutch auction procedure. With the introduction of the Dutch auction system, the allocation of all foreign exchange is now market based. 2Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish and Faeroese kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por- tuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and all currencies of the former Sterling Area other than the Uganda shilling. arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official sector. Administration of Control The Bank of Uganda administers exchange con- trol on behalf of the Minister of Finance. Import and export control is administered by the Ministry of Commerce. The Minister of Commerce has powers to prohibit imports and exports. Arrears are main- tained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency The Bank of Uganda holds reciprocal accounts with the central banks of Kenya and Tanzania, which are settled in U.S. dollars. Authorized pay- ments, including payments for imports, by resi- dents of Uganda to residents of foreign countries, other than Israel and South Africa, may be made in Uganda shillings to the credit of an external account in Uganda, or in any other currency that is appro- priate to the country of residence of the payee. Receipts from such countries may be obtained in Uganda shillings from an external account in Uganda or in any convertible currency. Payments to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Certain set- tlements with Burundi, Rwanda, and Zaire are channeled through reciprocal accounts. Uganda maintains bilateral trade and payments agreements with Algeria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, Ger- many, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and Yugoslavia. External Accounts Accounts in foreign exchange held by residents of foreign countries who are living in Uganda are desig- nated external accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments by residents of Uganda, with transfers from other external accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any foreign exchange cur- rency and gold by nonresidents of Uganda to autho- rized dealers. They may be debited freely for pay- ments to nonresidents, for transfers to other external accounts in Uganda, and for purchases of foreign currencies from authorized dealers. Nontransferable funds of persons not resident in Uganda are credited to blocked accounts main- tained with commercial banks. Subject to prior ap- proval, balances on blocked accounts may be used 505 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 506 UGANDA for the purchase in Uganda of specified bonds and shares issued in Uganda; the redemption proceeds of government bonds so acquired are transferable beginning five years from the date of purchase. Subject to individual permission, such balances may also be used for payments to residents not related to export transactions. Convertible Currency Accounts Private Ugandan residents, who are exporters of items other than coffee and who are earning com- missions, consulting fees, rent, and other incomes in foreign exchange, may operate foreign exchange accounts with commercial banks in Uganda. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Most imports are controlled through the import-licensing system. Foreign exchange alloca- tions to various ministries and departments must be backed by documents showing the approval of the Central Tender Board. Under the OGL system, which was introduced in May 1987, foreign exchange is made freely available for imports of inputs by specific enterprises in ten key industries (soap, tobacco, beverages, textiles, cement, mattresses, pharmaceuticals, aluminum, nails, and sugar). In practice, because the demand for imports under the OGL system exceeds the for- eign exchange made available for this purpose, eli- gible firms are granted approval only for a specific total value of imports required during a period of one year. The Central Bank may object to the grant- ing of foreign exchange for such imports either be- cause the quoted import price or the import volume is considered excessive. Foreign exchange for OGL imports is obtained from import support funds pro- vided by the World Bank, the European Com- munity, and bilateral donors. Under the SIP, introduced in December 1988, allocations of foreign exchange are made to eligible categories of imports on a first-come first-served basis. The SIP was liberalized in June 1989, permit- ting additional imports and some service payments. The SIP system was revised again in February 1990, and eligibility was changed to be based on a revised negative list of goods as determined in part by the Ministry of Commerce. In order to receive exchange allocations for government imports, OGL, and SIP, an advance deposit of 100 percent is required. The Ministry of Commerce issues import licenses and levies a commission of 1.0 percent of the license value. It also issues licenses for private sector im- ports financed from the importer's own foreign ex- change resources without an official allocation. In these cases, the Ministry examines the application to ensure that price and quantity are reasonable. Import shipments are subject to inspection by inter- national agencies to ensure that quality and quan- tity are as stated in the contract and that the invoice price corresponds to the actual value. Anyone wishing to import goods valued in excess of $20,000 is required to submit pro forma invoices from three different suppliers, except in the case of repeater and proprietary imports. Normally, im- ports must be purchased directly from the country of origin. Documentary evidence showing that the goods have been imported into Uganda must be forwarded to the exchange control authorities within six months of the date of payment. The firm-specific OGL system was phased out in September 1991, while the SIP system was replaced with a more broadly based import system on De- cember 15, 1991. Under the new system, importers are provided with a renewable certificate that per- mits them to import a broad range of goods not on the negative list during a six-month period. The import certificate does not prescribe the importation of a specific good. The negative list consists of the following items: (1) firearms; (2) communication equipment (as per the Uganda Post Office and Tele- communications Act of 1983); (3) specialized elec- tricity equipment; (4) pornographic materials; (5) beer; (6) soda; (7) cigarettes; (8) motor vehicle batteries; (9) foam mattresses; (10) used motor vehi- cles; and (11) used motor vehicle tires. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are made in the context of the monthly foreign exchange budget. Payments to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Facilities exist whereby salaried foreign nationals may remit to their country of origin up to one third of their gross monthly earnings to cover family mainte- nance, savings, etc., provided that they are on a contract of employment that includes a firm com- mitment to leave Uganda upon expiry of the con- tract. Remittance of profits, dividends, and interest payments is allowed subject to the availability of foreign exchange. The following limits apply to for- eign exchange that may be purchased in the foreign exchange bureaus: (1) for travel, $3,000 a trip, (2) medical treatment, $20,000 to be transferred through a bank with supporting documents, and (3) $15,000 for education. Payments by the private nonbank sector for all other invisible transactions and for certain capital transfers are subject to a combined limit (see section on Capital, below). The exportation of Uganda bank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA 507 notes and coins by travelers is prohibited, except that Ugandan travelers returning to Uganda may take out U Sh 2,500. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. All exports require certificates from the Ministry of Commerce and may be restricted to ensure suff i- cient supplies for consumption in Uganda. Paras ta- tal organizations and the private sector are involved in the exportation of nontraditional commodities, including maize, beans, soybeans, sesame seeds, peanuts, hides and skins, fish, fru it and vegetables, and timber. Export certificates for these products are granted subject to determination by the relevant authorities that price and quality are reasonable and domestic supplies are adequate. Exporters may re- tain proceeds from exports other than coffee and sell them in the recently established (July 1990) for- eign exchange bureau market. One hundred per- cent of coffee export receipts are still required to be surrendered to the Bank of Uganda. Coffee is sub- ject to an export duty. Effective March 31,1991, an export certificate sys- tem was implemented. The system has streamlined the process (estimated to require only three days to complete) and applies to all but military goods. Exporters are now required to complete an "Ap- plication for Export Certificate/' which calls for a simple profile of the applicant's business, the goods to be exported, and the expected destination of the goods. Certificates are valid for six months and are renewable. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 2) must be sold to an authorized dealer within 48 hours. The importation of Uganda bank notes and coins by travelers is prohibited, except that returning residents may bring in U Sh 2,500 a person. Travelers may freely bring in bank notes denominated in specified currencies and foreign currency traveler's checks. Capital Capital transfers to all countries require individ- ual exchange control approval, and those to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Foreign assets must be deposited with an authorized depository, except that residents of Uganda may be granted an exemption in respect of specified former Sterling Area assets held before June 11, 1965. Residents of Uganda leaving permanently may normally trans- fer their assets up to the equivalent of $10,000 for each family unit from their declared assets. Amounts in excess of this are placed in a blocked account and invested in Government of Uganda securities. The principal is transferred yearly, and the accrued interest is also released. Principal payments on nonguaranteed overseas borrowing by resident companies or individuals are transferable. There are no restrictions on non- guaranteed overseas borrowing by resident com- panies or individuals. Foreign investment in Uganda is permitted with or without government participation. Certain industries, such as public utilities and telecommunications, are wholly re- served for government ownership. In other key in- dustries, such as textiles, brewing, animal feed manufacture, the dairy industry, and tourism, the Government may acquire a certain percentage of the ownership but does accept private investment from either domestic or foreign sources. To secure a guar- antee of repatriation, it is necessary to obtain "ap- proved status" for the investment in terms of the Investment Code, 1991. In normal circumstances, approved status is given freely. Foreign and domes- tic investment in specified types of production re- quire approval under the Industrial Licensing Act. All imports and exports of securities require ap- proval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase by nonresidents of Ugandan securities, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remittable, as are the proceeds on resale in most cases. Prior exchange control approval is required for loans or overdraft facilities granted to nonresidents or to corporate bodies resident in Uganda that are controlled, di- rectly or indirectly, by persons resident outside Uganda. Gold A commemorative gold coin with a face value of U Sh 5 and redeemable by the Bank of Uganda was issued in 1969 but, in practice, does not circulate. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Uganda for numismatic purposes. Only monetary authorities and authorized industrial and profes- sional users are allowed to hold or acquire gold in Uganda in any form other than jewelry. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance. Export certificates are not normally granted except for ex- ports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. The importation of the follow- ing from all sources is subject to individual licens- ing: jewelry of gold, silver, or platinum; goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares, including set gems; bullion ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 508 UGANDA in the form of ingots, bars, or sheets; and gold coins. Import licenses for gold bullion, gold jewelry, and gold coins are issued restrictively and only to goldsmiths. Changes During 1991 Imports and Import Payments September 1. The authorities phased out the firm- specific OGL system, under which foreign ex- change for imports was allocated to specific enter- prises in ten key industries. December 15. The authorities replaced the SIP sys- tem with a more broadly based import system. Un- der the new system, importers are provided with a renewable certificate that permits them to import a broad range of goods not on the negative list during a six-month period. The import certificate does not prescribe the importation of a specific good. The negative list consists of the following items: (1) firearms; (2) communication equipment (as per the Uganda Post Office and Telecommunications Act of 1983); (3) specialized electricity equipment; (4) pornographic materials; (5) beer; (6) soda; (7) cigarettes; (8) motor vehicle batteries; (9) foam mattresses; (10) used motor vehicles; and (11) used motor vehicle tires. Exports and Export Proceeds March 31. An export certificate system streamlin- ing the process was introduced (the process is ex- pected to require only three days to complete). Based on this system, which applies to all but mili- tary goods, exporters are required to complete an "Application for Export Certificate," which calls for a simple profile of the applicant's business, the goods to be exported, and the expected destination of the goods. Certificates are valid for six months and are renewable. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES1 (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of the United Arab Emirates is the U .A .E. Dirham, which is pegged to the SDR at Dh 4.76190 per SDR 1. The United Arab Emirates has established margins of 7.25 percent around the official rate; since November 1980, the U .A .E. dir- ham has maintained an unchanged relationship with the U.S. dollar. The U.S. dollar is the interven- tion currency, and the Central Bank publishes buy- ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar only. On De- cember 31,1991, the official buying and selling rates were Dh 3.6690 and Dh 3.6730, respectively, per US$1. The Central Bank sets no limits on the amount of U.S. dollars that it is prepared to buy from or sell to any commercial bank. Commercial banks are free to enter into foreign exchange trans- actions, including forward contracts related to com- mercial and financial transactions, at rates of their own choosing; the rates quoted by commercial banks for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are determined on the basis of international quotations. There is a swap facility at the Central Bank, which the commercial banks may use to purchase dirhams spot and sell dirhams forward for periods of one week, one month, and three months. For each bank, maximum limits of $20 million outstanding for one- month and three-month swaps and $10 million out- standing for one-week swaps are in e f fec t. There is also a limit of $3 million a day in purchases for each bank for one-month and three-month swaps. Swap facilities are not available to banks having a short position in dirhams, except for the covering of for- ward transactions for commercial purposes. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The United Arab Emirates formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on February 13, 1974. Administration of Control There is neither exchange control legislation nor an exchange control authority in the United Arab Emirates, and there are no registration re- quirements for inward or outward transfers. There is no regime of export and import licensing. i rThe seven federated states of the United Arab Emirates are Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Sharjah, A jman, Umm al Qaiwain, Ras al Khaimah, and Fu ja irah. All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. No other prescription of currency re- quirements are in force. Nonresident Accounts Distinction is drawn between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Nonresi- dent accounts consist of those held with commercial banks on behalf of U .A .E. citizens working abroad; all foreigners working in the United Arab Emirates but who do not have residency; all embassies and diplomatic agencies in the country; all trade and financial companies, banks, and industrial com- panies incorporated outside the U .A .E. that have no local branches; and branches of local institutions in foreign countries. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa and Israel are pro- hibited, as are imports of products manufac tured by foreign companies blacklisted by the Arab League. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for health or security reasons. Virtually all other commodities may be freely imported with- out an individual import permit, but only licensed parties can enter the import trade, and an importer can import only the commodities specified in his license. There are no restrictions on the availability of foreign exchange for payments in respect of per- mitted imports. With the exception of specified items, imports into the United Arab Emirates are subject to a customs duty of 4 percent of the c . i . f. value. Imports originating from member states of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC) are not subject to any customs duty. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports to South Africa and Israel are prohibited. Virtually all commodities may be exported or re-exported freely and without an ex- port license to any destination other than South Africa and Israel. Each Emirate establishes its own export regula- tions. The proceeds from exports need not be re- patriated or surrendered and may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. 509 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 510 UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All payments for current invisibles may be made freely, with the exception of payments to South Africa and Israel, which are prohibited. There are no requirements governing receipts. Travelers may take out and bring in any amount in foreign or domestic bank notes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents. Commercial banks operating in the United Arab Emirates are prohibited from engaging in nonbanking operations (as specified in Article 90 of the Central Bank Act of 1980) and from owning real estate except for the purpose of carrying on business and for accommodation. Under the United Arab Emirates Company Law (Law No. 8, 1984), at least 51 percent of the equity of companies, other than branches of foreign companies, must be held by nationals of the United Arab Emirates. Nationals of the member countries of the GCC are permitted to hold (1) up to 75 percent of the equity of com- panies in the industrial, agricultural, fisheries, and construction sectors, and in the consultancy areas (Law No. 2, 1984); and (2) up to 100 percent of the equity of companies in the hotel industry. Further- more, nationals of the member countries of the GCC are permitted to engage in wholesale and retail trade activities, except in the form of companies, in which case they are subject to the Company Law of 1984. Profits on foreign capital invested in the United Arab Emirates may be remitted freely. Banks operating in the United Arab Emirates are required to maintain special deposits with the Central Bank equal to 30 percent of their placements with, or lending to, nonresident banks in dirhams with a remaining life of one year or less. The profits of certain banks are subject to a fee levied by local authorities at an annual rate of 20 percent. Gold Residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, without a permit, import and export gold in any form, but the importation of gold for trade purposes is undertaken only by licensed par- ties. Gold bullion is exempt from import duty, but jewelry is not. Changes During 1991 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Un i ted Kingdom is the Pound Sterling. The United Kingdom par t ic ipa tes with Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Ire- land, Italy, Luxembourg, the Ne ther lands, Portu- gal, and Spain in the exchange rate and interven- tion mechanism (ERM) of the Eu ropean Monetary System (EMS).1 In accordance with this agree- ment, the United Kingdom undertakes to main- tain the spot exchange rates between the pound sterling and the currencies of the other partici- pan ts within margins of approx ima te ly 6 percent above or below the cross ra tes based on the central exchange rate expressed in European Currency Un i ts (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Bank of England stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of other participating countries in unlimited amounts at the specified intervention rates. On December 31,1991, these rates were as follows: Banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currency, and they may deal among themselves and with residents and nonresidents in foreign notes and coins at free mar- ket rates of exchange. The United Kingdom formally accepted the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control There are no exchange controls. The licensing of imports and exports is handled mostly by the De- partment of Trade and Industry, but other depart- ments also issue licenses in specialized fields. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Pounds Sterling Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports may be made freely. For import-licensing purposes, countries are divided into ten groups: the ACP Area;2 the CEFTA Area;3 the Community Area;4 the Dollar Area;5 the Far Eastern and Western Area;6 the Mediterranean Area;7 the 2The ACP Area comprises Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Benin, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Bu- rundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Djibouti, Dominica, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Jamaica, Kenya, Kiribati, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mozambique, Niger, Nigeria, Papua New Guinea, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands, Somalia, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tuvalu, Uganda, Vanuatu, Western Samoa, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. 3The CEFTA Area comprises Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Fin- land, France, Germany, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. 4The Community Area comprises all EC member states. 5The Dollar Area comprises Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Liberia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Pan- ama, the Philippines, the United States, and Venezuela. 6The Far Eastern and Western Area comprises Australia, Can- ada, Japan, New Zealand, and the United States. 7The Mediterranean Area comprises Cyprus, Egypt, Israel, Lebanon, Malta, Morocco, Tunisia, Turkey, and Yugoslavia. Specified Intervention Rates per: 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 deutsche mark 100 French francs 1 Irish pound 1,000 Italian lire 100 Netherlands guilders 1,000 Portuguese escudos1 100 Spanish pesetas Effective April 6, 1992. Upper limit Lower limit 1.7451 9.4361 35.9970 10.7320 0.96424 0.48105 31.9450 4.1400 0.55374 1.5479 8.3697 31.9280 9.5190 0.8552 0.42669 28.3340 3.6722 0.49116 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits; however, they may intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the inter- vention currencies being each other's, the ECU, and the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1991, the closing buying and selling rates for the pound sterling against the U.S. dollar in foreign exchange markets in London as observed by the Bank of England were US$1.8673 and US$1.8683, respectively, per £1. JW i th e f fect f rom April 6, 1992, Portugal participates in the ERM of the EMS. 511 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 512 UNITED KINGDOM OCT Area;8 the State Trading Area;9 the Residual Textile Area;10 and all other countries. Most imports are admitted under an open general import license without restriction, with the excep- tion of certain textile goods,11 and the following exceptions at the end of 1990: (1) from all countries, two commodities or groups of commodities;12 (2) from the Dollar Area only, one group of com- modities; (3) from the former U.S.S.R., one group of commodities; (4) from the State Trading Area only, eight commodities or groups of commodities; and (5) from South Africa only, two commodities or groups of commodities. Individual import licenses are required for goods that cannot be imported un- der the authority of the open general import license; some items are subject to surveillance licensing, under which import licenses are issued freely on demand to applicants providing certain informa- tion. Most articles subject to specific import licens- ing can be imported in limited quantities under bilateral or global quotas. A few articles may be imported under open individual licenses, that is, without limit as to quantity or value. Imports of automobiles from Japan are subject to voluntary export restraints of the respective supplying com- panies. Imports of cereals and cereal products, beef and veal, mutton and lamb, poultry meat, and dairy products other than butter and cheese are sub- 8The OCT Area comprises British Antarctic Territory, British Indian Ocean Territory, British Virgin Islands, the Cayman Is- lands, the Falkland Islands and Dependencies, French Poly- nesia, French Southern and Antarctic Territories, Greenland, Mayotte, Montserrat, Netherlands Antilles (Aruba, Bonaire, Cu- rac,ao, St. Eustatius, St. Maarten (South), and Saba), New Cal- edonia and Dependencies, Pitcairn, St. Helena and Dependen- cies, St. Pierre and Miquelon, Turks and Caicos Islands, Wallis and Futuna Islands, and West Indies Associated States. 9The State Trading Area comprises Albania, Bulgaria, Cam- bodia, China, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, the Democratic Peo- ple's Republic of Korea, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the countries and republics com- prising the former U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. 10The Residual Textile Area comprises all countries and territo- ries other than Algeria, Argentina, Bangladesh, Bolivia, Brazil, Brunei Darussalem, Colombia, Costa Rica, the Dominican Re- public, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Hong Kong, India, Indo- nesia, Islamic Republic of Iran, Jordan, the Republic of Korea, Macao, Malaysia, Maldives, Mexico, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Pan- ama, Paraguay, Peru, the Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, the Syrian Arab Republic, Taiwan Province of China, Thailand, Uru- guay and those comprising the ACP Area, the CEFTA Area, the Far Eastern and Western Area, the Mediterranean Area, the OCT Area, and the State Trading Area. 11 The restrictions on textiles do not apply to countries in the Community Area, Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, and the United States. 12The skins of certain rare animals, most primary whale prod- ucts, and a number of other wildlife products, including raw ivory, tortoiseshell, and plumage, cannot be imported w i thout an import license issued by the appropriate department. Cocoa and cocoa products may be imported according to the Interna- tional Cocoa Agreement of 1986. ject to minimum import prices enforced through autonomously imposed variable import levies. Im- ports of many other agricultural, horticultural, and livestock products are subject to European Com- munity (EC) regulations. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports are free of export control, and there are no requirements affecting export proceeds.13 Under the Tender to Contract Facility of the Export Credits Guarantee Department, exporters bidding for major capital projects in Canadian dollars, deut- sche mark, Japanese yen, Swiss francs, or U.S. dol- lars when the U .K. element of the contract is for the equivalent of at least £10 million may obtain cover against exchange rate fluctuations between the sub- mission of their bid and the awarding of the contract. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for and proceeds from invisibles. Travelers may import or export any amount of domestic and foreign bank notes or any other means of payment. Capital There are no restrictions or exchange control re- quirements on capital transfers by residents or non- residents. Residents and nonresidents may freely transfer assets to and from the United Kingdom. Investments, whether direct or portfolio, may be freely made by nonresidents in the United King- dom or by residents abroad. However, investments involving the takeover of existing U .K. companies that are considered a vital part of U .K. industry may be subject to the provisions of the Fair Trading Act of 1973. The Government also has powers under the Industry Act of 1975 to prevent or undo undesirable foreign takeovers of important manufacturing undertakings. There are no restrictions or formalities on transac- tions in sterling or foreign currency securities. Banks may freely accept foreign currency deposits and employ them in their foreign currency business or convert them to sterling, subject to prudential guidelines issued by the Bank of England concern- ing the limitation of risks arising from their foreign exchange exposure. Net spot liabilities in foreign currencies (that is, the net amount of foreign cur- rency resources fund ing sterling assets) form part of 13 Exports of certain products are controlled for reasons of national security, animal welfare, national heritage, and in accor- dance with international agreements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM 513 a bank's eligible liabilities that are sub ject to a 0.40 percent14 non-interest-bearing deposit re- qu irement with the Bank of England and may also be subject to calls for special deposits to be placed w i th the Bank. There is currently no special de- posit call. Gold Gold bullion and gold coins are not subject to control in the United Kingdom, other than imports of gold coins minted in or af ter 1961 and originating in South Africa. Gold sovereigns and Britannias, a new gold coin introduced in October 1987, are legal tender but do not circulate. Gold coins have also been issued in Jersey and the Isle of Man and are 14The percentage was lowered to 0.35 percent on January 31, 1992. legal tender there. Except under license granted by the Treasury, it is an offense to melt down or break up any metal coin that is for the time being current in the United Kingdom or that, having been current there, has at any time after May 16, 1969 ceased to be so. The exportation of gold in manufactured form over f i f ty years old and valued at £8,000 and over for each item or matching set of items also requires a license from the Department of Trade and Industry. There is a free gold market in London in which gold bars are freely traded. Changes During 1991 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EC-wide basis during 1991, page 557.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the United States is the U.S. Dollar. The U.S. authorities do not maintain mar- gins in respect of exchange transactions, and spot and forward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the ex- change markets. However, the authorities intervene when necessary to counter disorderly conditions in the exchange markets or when otherwise deemed appropriate. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. The United States formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from December 10, 1946. Administration of Control The Department of the Treasury administers eco- nomic sanction programs involving direct or indi- rect financial or commercial transactions with Cuba, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet Nam, as well as Haiti, Iraq, and Libya, as specified under the Cuban Assets Control Regulations, the Foreign Assets Control Regulations, the Libyan Sanctions Regulations, the Iraqi Sanctions Regula- tions, and the Haitian Transactions Regulators. It also has administrative responsibility for blocked accounts of the above countries, for Cambodian ac- counts blocked as of January 2,1992, and for blocked accounts under the Foreign Funds Control Regula- tions. The Department of the Treasury regulates the importation into the United States of goods and services originating from the Islamic Republic of Iran under the Iranian Transactions Regulations. The Customs Service of the Treasury Department administers import quotas; such quotas, however, are frequently established or allocated by other agencies. The Committee for the Implementation of Textile Agreements, chaired by the Department of Commerce, with representatives from other agen- cies, decides when to request consultation with ex- porting countries to limit imports on the basis of the guidelines of the Multifiber Arrangement (MFA) and bilateral restraint agreements. Import quotas on specified dairy products are administered by the Department of Agriculture through the issuance of import licenses. For items subject to export control —other than munitions items —the Depart- ment of Commerce is, in general, the responsible authority. There are no restrictions on foreign payments, except those imposed under Treasury Department regulations on transactions involving the govern- ments or nationals of Cuba, Haiti, Iraq, the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea, Libya, and Viet Nam, and those on imports from and certain assets of the Islamic Republic of Iran. Certain payments to Cuba, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet Nam related to authorized travel are per- mitted, as are certain payments in connection with travel to and in the United States by nationals of these countries. Limited remittances to the remit- ter's close relatives in Cambodia, Cuba, and Viet Nam are also permitted. Imports and Import Payments Importation of goods and services originating in or representing a property interest of Cuba, Haiti, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Libya, and Viet Nam are prohibited under treasury regulations, unless spe- cifically authorized. Import quotas are in effect for certain products, including cotton, certain cotton waste and prod- ucts, many dairy products, peanuts, and certain products containing sugar. Quotas may be imposed by the president under specified conditions on cer- tain types of meat. All quantitative import quotas, except those for peanuts, certain cotton products, butter, butter oil, certain other dairy products, and certain products containing sugar, are on a country- of-production basis. Certain dairy products that are subject to quotas are also subject to import licensing. The United States is a party to the MFA negoti- ated within the framework of the General Agree- ment on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). It maintains nearly thirty bilateral textile agreements negotiated in accordance with the MFA's provisions, and eight agreements with nonsignatories of the MFA. These agreements control trading partners' exports of tex- tiles and apparel to the United States in specific product categories and provide for the orderly ex- pansion of trade while minimizing the disruption of the U.S. market for these products. Imports from both agreement and nonagreement countries are monitored along with domestic industry perfor- mance to determine whether market disruption ex- ists or is threatened. When necessary, consultations 514 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES 515 with exporting countries are requested to establish limitations. Imports of a limited number of manufactured products (that is, steel, machine tools, and shakes and shingles) are also effectively restricted by bilat- eral agreements or by the multilateral procedures of GATT Article XIX designed to provide temporary relief to certain distressed industries. Free trade area agreements are in force with Israel and with Canada. The Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) for developing countries has been in operation in the United States since January 1976 and is scheduled to continue through July 4,1993. Under a procedure referred to as "product graduation/' eligibility for duty-free treatment can be withdrawn for a particu- lar product in which a beneficiary country has be- come competitive. Cumulative treatment under the GSP scheme is extended to beneficiary members of the Andean Group, the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN), and the Caribbean Com- mon Market (CARICOM); cumulation allows two or more member countries of an eligible association to contribute jointly to the requirement that at least 35 percent of the direct cost of producing a given product should originate in the beneficiary country. Exempt from competitive needs limits is a category of countries designated as "least developed" benefi- ciaries; currently, 37 countries are thus designated.1 Under the Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Act, 24 countries and entities2 have been designated to receive preferential tariff treatment on specified im- ports. The program was originally designed to ex- pire on September 30, 1995, but was made perma- nent in 1990. Exports and Export Proceeds Ammunition may be exported only under license issued by the Office of Defense Trade Controls in the Department of State. The Department of Com- merce administers controls directly on exports of crime control and detection equipment, as well as instruments and related technical data, to all coun- 1 Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Bu- rundi, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Djibouti, Equatorial Guinea, The Gambia, Guinea, Guinea- Bissau, Haiti, Kiribati, Lesotho, Malawi, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mozambique, Nepal, Niger, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Tanzania, Togo, Tuvalu, Uganda, Vanuatu, Western Samoa, and Yemen Arab Republic. 2Antigua and Barbuda, Aruba, The Bahamas, Barbados, Be- lize, British Virgin Islands, Costa Rica, Dominica, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Grenada, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Hon- duras, Jamaica, Montserrat, Netherlands Antilles, Nicaragua, Panama, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. tries except other members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), Australia, Japan, and New Zealand. The Department of Commerce ad- ministers controls directly on exports of other goods from the United States and on re-exports of goods of U.S. origin from any area. (The Treasury Depart- ment administers controls on exports to Cuba, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet Nam of goods of foreign origin by U.S. nationals or by foreign firms that are owned or controlled by U.S. nationals.) All exports from the United States to Cuba, Haiti, Iraq, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Libya, and Viet Nam (with the exception of publica- tions and other information materials, personal bag- gage, and similar items) are prohibited unless li- censed by the Department of Commerce and/or the Department of the Treasury. Certain export restric- tions affecting military and police entities in South Africa remain in effect along with a munitions em- bargo. Exports to all other countries, except Can- ada, of designated strategic materials and equip- ment require validated licenses from the Department of Commerce. Persons subject to U .S. jurisdiction require a Treasury Depar tment license to participate in transactions in strategic goods involving certain countries regardless of origin, unless the transac- tion is licensed by another member of the Coordi- na t ing Committee for Mu l t i la te ral Export Con- trols (COCOM). This program is administered pu rsuant to the Transaction Control Regulations. For many commodities, when exported to coun- tries other than Afghan is tan, fo rmer member countries of the Council for Mu tual Economic As- sistance (CMEA), Cuba, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Libya, and Viet Nam, distribution li- censes may be obtained to cover multiple ship- ments. The licensing requirements that apply to Yugoslavia are less restrictive than those that ap- ply to other Eastern European countries. Under the Export Administration Act of 1979, which was amended in 1985, the president can sus- pend the exportation of nonagricultural goods for reasons of national security, foreign policy, or short supply in the domestic economy, although efforts are made to minimize the use of such authority. Export suspension of agricultural commodities may not be imposed for reasons of short supply, foreign policy, or national security unless a direct security threat exists. For agricultural commodities, such as wheat, flour, corn, sorghum, rice, soybeans and soybean products, and cotton, exporting com- panies are required to participate in a reporting ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 516 UNITED STATES system that is designed to improve market informa- tion and allow for more orderly exporting. The pro- ceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely, except for payments to or for the account of the gov- ernments or nationals of Cuba, Haiti, Iraq, the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea, Viet Nam, most payments to Libya, and certain payments relating to the Islamic Republic of Iran.3 Effective December 19, 1991, Libya is no longer permitted to clear and ex- change funds in third countries through U.S. banks. Residents of the United States are allowed to remit up to $300 a quarter to close relatives in Cuba and $300 a quarter to close relatives in Viet Nam. In addition, remittances of up to $500 to Cuba and $750 to Viet Nam are allowed to aid in a relative's emigration from those countries. Receipts of funds from Cuba, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet Nam are subject to blocking, as are payments involving a governmental interest from Iraq and Libya. Individ- uals leaving or entering the United States with more than $10,000 in domestic or foreign currency, trav- eler's checks, money orders, or bearer-form negotia- ble securities must declare these to customs at the point of exit or entry. Capital Incoming or outgoing capital payments by resi- dents or nonresidents are not subject to exchange control. In addition, inward and outward direct or portfolio investment is generally free of any other form of approval requirement. The 1988 Omnibus Trade Act contained provisions authorizing the presi- dent to review and suspend or prohibit foreign ac- quisitions, mergers, and takeovers in the United States (the "Exon-Florio amendment7') if he deter- mines that the foreign investor might take action that would threaten to impair national security and if exist- ing laws, except the International Economic Emer- gency Act, are not, in the president's judgment, ade- quate or appropriate to protect the national security. In 1991, the Exon-Florio provision was made perma- nent. Investments involving ownership interest in banks are subject to federal and state banking regula- tions. However, as noted above, there are restrictions on certain transactions with, or involving, Cuba, Haiti, Iraq, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Libya, and Viet Nam. 3Certain payments and transfers to the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran, its instrumentalities, and controlled entities involving obligations contracted before January 19, 1981 are subject to restrictions, as are payments for goods or services imported from the Islamic Republic of Iran. The Johnson Act, 18 U.S.C. 955, prohibits, with certain exceptions, persons within the United States from dealing in financial obligations or extending loans to foreign governments that have defaulted on payments of their obligations to the United States Government. The act does not apply to those for- eign governments that are members of both the IMF and the World Bank. In addition, there is no restric- tion on the amount of cash or negotiable instru- ments that may be brought into or taken out of the United States; however, there are certain reporting requirements for travelers entering or leaving the United States when they are carrying more than $10,000 in cash or negotiable instruments (as well as corresponding reporting requirements for ship- ment of currency or bearer assets through the mails). In addition, ownership of U.S. agricultural land by foreign nationals or by U.S. corporations in which foreign owners have a significant interest (at least 10 percent) or substantial control must be re- ported to the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Cer- tain states in the United States impose varying re- strictions on purchases of land within their borders by foreign nationals. The foreign currency positions of banks, whether overall or with respect to individual currencies, are not subject to limitations of a quantitative nature, but banks are expected to follow normal banking practices and maintain prudent positions. U.S. agencies and branches of foreign banks, as well as domestic banks, are subject to reserve requirements by the Federal Reserve system. Beginning December 3, 1981, U.S. chartered de- pository institutions, U.S. offices of Edge Act and Agreement Corporations,4 and U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks have been allowed to es- tablish international banking facilities (IBFs) in the United States. IBFs may accept deposits only from foreign residents (including foreign offices of do- mestic banks), from other IBFs, or from the institu- tion establishing the IBF. Such funds are exempted from reserve requirements of Regulation D. For nonbank foreign residents, the minimum maturity or notice requirement is two business days, and the minimum transaction amount is $100,000. Funds raised by an IBF may be used only to extend credit to foreign residents (including foreign offices of do- mestic banks), to other IBFs, or to the entity estab- lishing the IBF. Credit may be extended to nonbank foreign residents only if the proceeds are used to finance operations of the borrower or its affiliates outside the United States. Advances from an IBF to 4These are defined as domestically chartered corporations au- thorized to engage in international banking and financial operations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES 517 its establishing entity in the United States are sub- ject to Eurocurrency reserve requirements in the same manner as advances to the establishing entity from the entity's foreign offices. A number of indi- vidual states (but not the Federal Government) have granted favorable tax treatment under state or local law to IBF operations. In addition, federal legislation was enacted to exempt deposits at IBFs from Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance coverage and assessments. Effective December 31,1988, U.S. banks have been permitted to accept foreign cur- rency deposits. Gold U.S. citizens and residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad, except for certain gold transactions (for example, imports or exports) involving Cuba, Haiti, Iraq, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Libya, and Viet Nam. Commercial banks may deal in gold bul- lion and gold coins, with the same exceptions. Trea- sury licensing for importers, exporters, producers, refiners, and processors of gold is not required, with the same country exceptions. Producers of gold may sell their output in the free market, with the same country exceptions. Gold, but not counter- feit gold coins, may be freely imported, except from the countries mentioned above. U.S. gold coins are legal tender at their face value. Commercial imports of gold jewelry are free of quantitative restrictions but are subject to import duty at a rate of approximately 12 percent. There is no duty on gold ore, bullion, or coins. All forms of gold must be declared at the point of entry into the United States. Changes During 1991 Administration of Control During 1991, the United States concluded trade agreements with a number of countries. The most significant ones were the following: January 23. The United States and Mongolia signed a bilateral trade agreement providing the basis for improved economic and business ties be- tween the two countries, including reciprocal most- favored-nation (MFN) trade status. March 30. A Trade Enhancement Initiative (TEI) for Central and Eastern Europe, which would ex- pand duty-free access to the U.S. market for these countries for imports up to $182 million, was an- nounced. Also, under the TEI, the United States renegotiated bilateral textile agreements, signifi- cantly increasing the regions' access to the U.S. textile market. U.S. quotas on steel were adjusted to accommodate the export potential of Central and Eastern Europe. Another program would promote U.S. investments in Central and Eastern Europe, particularly in infrastructure, and would increase the involvement of small and medium-size firms in bilateral trade with Central and Eastern Europe. April 8. The United States and Venezuela signed a f ramewo rk agreement establishing a Trade and Investment Council, whose major objectives are monitoring trade and investment relations, pur- suing the goal of open markets between both countries, and, where appropriate, negotiating agreements. April 22. The United States and Bulgaria signed a bilateral trade agreement, concluded in Octo- ber 1990. It provides reciprocal MFN tariff treat- ment, guarantees nondiscriminatory treatment for U.S. firms renting office space and opening bank accounts, commits Bulgaria to stronger intellectual property protection, and allows hard-currency earnings from trade to be repatriated immediately. May 13. The United States and El Salvador signed an agreement to establish a Trade and Investment Council, whose major objectives are monitoring trade and investment relations, pursuing the goal of open markets between both countries, and, where appropriate, negotiating agreements. May 16. The United States and Peru signed a f ramewo rk agreement to establish a Council on Trade and Investment, whose ma jor objectives are monitoring trade and investment relations, pur- suing the goal of open markets between both countries, and, where appropriate, negotiating agreements. May 24. The United States Congress passed "fast- track" presidential trade-negotiating authority for two years, whereby any trade agreement submitted to Congress would not be subject to amendment. Agreements are to be approved or disapproved in their entirety. The negotiating authority would be used for the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations and an anticipated North American Free Trade Agreement with Mexico and Canada. June 12. Negotiations began between the United States, Canada, and Mexico on the establishment of a North American Free Trade Agreement aimed at the elimination of trade barriers in goods and ser- vices. Among the issues to be negotiated are market access, dispute settlement, services, investment, and intellectual property rights. June 19. The United States signed a multilateral framework agreement on trade and investment with the Southern Cone countries —Argentina, Bra- zil, Paraguay, and Uruguay. The agreement estab- lished a council on trade and investment to monitor ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 518 UNITED STATES developments and pursue liberalization oppor- tunities. June 27. The United States signed separate framework agreements on trade and investment with Nicaragua and Panama. The agreements set up councils to monitor trade and investment rela- tions, pursue the goal of open markets, and, where appropriate, negotiate agreements. July 22. The United States, citing drug traffic, imposed new trade sanctions against Myanmar and refused to renew the bilateral textile agreement, which expired in December 1990. July 22. The United States signed a framework agreement with the 13-nation Caribbean Com- munity establishing a trade and investment council, whose major objectives are monitoring trade and investment relations, pursuing the goal of open markets, and, where appropriate, negotiating agreements. September 20. The United States and Sri Lanka signed a bilateral investment treaty. September 20. The United States and Argentina signed a bilateral export subsidies agreement, pav- ing the way for Argentina to join the GATT Sub- sidies Code and thereafter for the United States to apply an injury test in countervailing duty inves- tigations against Argentina. October 2. The United States and Guatemala signed a framework agreement on trade invest- ment. The agreement set up a council to monitor trade and investment relations and pursue liberal- ization opportunities. October 11. The United States and Singapore con- cluded a Trade and Investment Facilitations Agree- ment to monitor trade and investment flows, to remove impediments to such flows, and to negoti- ate agreements where appropriate. October 22. The United States and Czechoslovakia reached agreement on a bilateral investment treaty. Once entered into force, it would provide U.S. in- vestors in Czechoslovakia with nondiscriminatory treatment. November 14. The United States and Argentina signed a bilateral investment treaty providing free transferability of capital and repatriation of factor income while also providing for international ar- bitration of disputes under the agreement. November 22. The United States and Bulgaria brought into force a bilateral trade agreement providing for reciprocal MFN treatment. Bulgaria also committed itself to stronger protection of intel- lectual property rights. November 27. A trade agreement between the United States and Mongolia was concluded. The agreement provides for reciprocal MFN treatment and commits Mongolia to stronger protection of in- tellectual property. December 13. The United States and the Domini- can Republic signed a framework agreement on trade and investment. The agreement set up a coun- cil to monitor trade and investment relations and pursue liberalization opportunities. Imports and Import Payments January 1. Under the MFA, the United States and Macau modified their bilateral agreement, reducing certain limits on imports from Macau for 1991 to deal with circumvention problems. January 1. The United States extended the bilat- eral agreement restricting imports of textiles and apparel from Romania. Singapore also agreed to extend its bilateral textile agreement with the United States, restricting exports of cotton, wool, and man-made fiber textiles and products. January 1. The United States and Thailand final- ized a three-year bilateral textile agreement cover- ing 78 percent of U.S. imports from Thailand. January 3. The tariff rate quota for sugars, syrups, and molasses for October 1, 1990 through Septem- ber 30, 1991 was increased to 2,100,000 from 1,725,000 metric tons. The base quota is 2,031,000 tons with 1,815 tons reserved for specialty sugars and 4,877 reserved as a quota adjustment. January 17. The Department of Agriculture (USDA) ruled that sandpears may be imported from Chile after finding that certain provinces in Chile were free from Medfly. February 1. Bangladesh and the United States agreed to amend a multifiber agreement so as to include restrictions on exports of cotton shop towels from Bangladesh. February 6. Chile, Paraguay, and the Central Afri- can Republic were reinstated for duty-free benefits under the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP). They had been suspended for their failure to provide internationally recognized worker rights as required by GSP. February 6. Namibia was designated as eligible for duty-free benefits under the GSP for the first time. February 6. The USDA ordered a ban on imports of seed potatoes from the Canadian provinces of Prince Edward Island and New Brunswick after the potatoes were found to carry a virus potentially harmful to tobacco crops. February 13. Antidumping duties were imposed on imports of benzyl paraben from Japan at a weighted-average rate of 126 percent. February 19. Antidumping duties were imposed on imports of heavy forged hand tools from China at rates ranging from 15.02 percent to 50.81 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES 519 February 19. Antidumping duties were imposed on imports of sodium thiosulfate from China, Ger- many, and the United Kingdom at weighted aver- age rates of 27.57, 100.40, and 50.13 percent, respectively. March 15. The Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control issued regulations govern- ing the importation of Iranian crude oil. Payments for oil would be used to replenish an escrow account that has provided funds to satisfy U.S. claims against Iran since 1979. March 20. An agreement was reached between the United States and Canada on accelerated tariff reductions affecting $2 billion of bilateral trade in over 250 tariff items. It was the second round of accelerated tariff reductions under the United States-Canada Free Trade Agreement. April 12. Antidumping and countervailing duties were imposed on imports of salmon from Norway at rates of 15.65-31.81 percent and 0.71 NKr per kilogram. April 25. The United States suspended indefi- nitely Sudan's benefits under the GSP because of its worker rights record, effective July 1. April 29. GSP benefits were extended Czechoslovakia. May 1. A pesticide residue limit for procymidone, a fungicide widely used on European wine grapes and detected in imported wines, was set by the Environmental Protection Agency at seven parts per million. This ended a year-long embargo on some wines from the European Community. May 1. Czechoslovakia became eligible for bene- fits under the GSP. The Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR), announcing results of its 1990 annual review, noted that more than half of new GSP benefits will go to Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, and Yugoslavia. May 10. Antidumping duties were imposed on imports of gray portland cement and clinker from Japan at margins ranging from 47.79 percent to 84.7 percent. May 29. The United States renewed MFN trade status for China. June 5. Antidumping duties were imposed on imports of polyethylene terephthalate film sheet from Japan and the Republic of Korea, at rates of 3.03-14 percent and 3.75-5.35 percent, respectively. June 10. Antidumping duties were imposed on silicon metal from China at a weighted average rate of 139.49 percent. June 14. An extraordinary challenge committee established under the United States-Canada Free Trade Agreement ruled that the United States was required to lift its countervailing duties on imports to of fresh, chilled, and frozen pork from Canada. The committee affirmed a January 22,1991 decision by a binational panel formed under the trade agreement, which found that the United States International Trade Commission did not act properly in finding a threat of material injury to the U.S. domestic industry. June 18. Antidumping duties were imposed on imports of sparklers from Japan at margins ranging from 2 percent to 43.54 percent. June 26. Twenty-nine of 34 import limits on GSP- eligible goods from Mexico, including those for pe- cans, refrigerators, unwrought zinc, and car seat parts with a 1990 import value of nearly $2.4 billion, were waived. Import limits were also waived for $110 million of imports of ignition wires from the Philippines. July 1. Uruguay and the United States agreed to extend restrictions on Uruguay's exports of textiles and apparel to the United States under the MFA. July 5. Import restrictions on peanuts were tem- porarily relaxed; the peanut import quota was in- creased to 100 million pounds for the year ending July 31, 1991 because of drought in major U.S. pro- ducing areas. July 10. Trade and financial restrictions against South Africa imposed under the comprehensive Anti-Apartheid Act of 1986 were lifted. July 23. The U.S. Animal and Plant Health Inspec- tion Service removed citrus canker regulations on imports of citrus fruits from Mexico after it was determined that the disease no longer occurs in Mexico. August 1. Asa result of the semiconductor agree- ment with Japan, the United States suspended 100 percent ad valorem duties on imports of high- performance portable and desktop computers, as well as electropneumatic hammers. August 16. A GATT panel ruled against a U.S. import ban on yellowfin tuna from Mexico. Venezu- ela is subject to this same embargo. The ban was held to be in violation of GATT disciplines on quan- titative restrictions and, in the panel's view, did not come within any of the Article XX exceptions. The United States had imposed the embargo under the U.S. Marine Mammal Protection Act in Septem- ber 1990 on imports from countries whose inciden- tal mortality of dolphins exceeded U.S. standards for dolphins taken in the course of purse seine fish- ing for tuna in the eastern tropical Pacific Ocean. August 28. Antidumping duties were imposed on personal word processors from Japan at a margin of 58.71 percent. September 4. Antidumping duties were imposed on imports of high-information flat panel displays ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 520 UNITED STATES from Japan at margins ranging from 7.02 percent for electroluminescent technology to 62.67 percent for active-matrix liquid crystal technology. September 17. The United States and Czechoslovakia signed a memorandum of understanding extending a bilateral textile trade agreement for one year. September 20. Antidumping duties were imposed on imports of chrome-plated lug nuts from China and Taiwan Province of China at a margin of 4.24 percent and 4.7-10.65 percent, respectively. September 26. Antidumping duties were imposed on imports of silicon metal from Argentina at a margin of 8.65 percent. September 26. The United States and Poland signed a memorandum of understanding extending a bilateral textile trade agreement for two years. September 30. An orderly marketing agreement with China on ammonia paratungstate expired. October 11. The United States and Hungary signed a memorandum of understanding extending a bilateral textile trade agreement for two years. October 15. The United States and Uruguay amended their agreement under the MFA. The amendments increased coverage by one cotton cate- gory and extended limits on a wool category set to expire. Base levels were increased, and growth rates were set at 6 percent for cotton and 1 percent for wool. October 28. The president issued an Executive Order prohibiting importation into the United States of any goods of Haitian origin or of services performed in Haiti. Informational materials and do- nations of articles intended to relieve human suffer- ing (such as food, clothing, medicine, and medical supplies), rice, beans, sugar, wheat flour, and cook- ing oil were exempted. Parts or materials may be specifically licensed by the U.S. Treas Depart- ment for assembly or processing Jitc ^uoJs for re- turn to the United States. Assets of the Government of Haiti were frozen effective October 4. November 19. Antidumping duties were imposed on imports of tungsten ore from China at a margin of 151 percent. November 22. The United States granted MFN trade status to Bulgaria and Mongolia. December 4. The United States granted MFN trade status to Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania. Authority was given to the president to make MFN status for Czechoslovakia and Hungary permanent. The stat- utory ban on imports of gold coins from the former Soviet Union was also removed. December 6. The eligibility of Yugoslavia under the GSP was suspended. The bilateral textile agreement with Yugoslavia was terminated. December 9. Voluntary restraint agreements with Australia and New Zealand were put into effect on exports of bovine meat, goat and sheep meat, and processed beef and veal to the United States for 1991. December 9. The United States imposed anti- dumping duties on imports of oscillating ceiling fans from China at a margin of 0-2.47 percent. December 20. GSP benefits were extended to Bulgaria. Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. A long-term grain agreement between the United States and the former Soviet Union came into effec t. It required the former Soviet Union to purchase a minimum of 10 million metric tons of grain, including 4 million metric tons of wheat, and 4 million metric tons of feed grains, each year over five years, with the remaining 2 million metric tons purchased from feed grains, wheat, soybeans, and/ or soybean meal. January 24. The Department of Commerce ex- panded controls on chemicals used in producing chemical weapons. Validated licenses are required for exports of these chemicals to all destinations except NATO members, Australia, Austria, Ireland, Japan, New Zealand, and Switzerland. February 4. The Department of Commerce elimi- nated certain export documentation requirements for export licenses, re-export authorization, and amendment, except for exports of supercomputers, to certain countries. February 12. The Department of Commerce is- sued an interim rule whereby exports of certain dynamic random access memory chips to certain countries would not require export licenses. March 20. The Department of Commerce issued an interim rule whereby exports of gallium arsenide to certain countries, except Afghanistan and China, would not require export licenses. The rule was made retroactive to February 19, 1991. April 1. The Department of Commerce an- nounced that Ireland would receive new benefits under the Export Administration Act in return for stricter controls on high-technology exports to cer- tain countries. The new benefits would ease control on exports to Ireland, accelerate export-licensing procedures, and relax controls on re-exports. April 25. Export controls against Czechoslovakia, Hungary, and Poland were relaxed in response to new policy safeguard systems put in place by these countries to prevent diversion of U.S. exports to proscribed countries. May 22. The United States and the Australian Group agreed to strict limits on exports of chemicals and equipment for use in manufacturing chemical weapons. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES 521 May 24. The United States and the Australian Group agreed to restrict high-technology exports to Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union and to shorten the "core list" of goods and technologies subject to control under COCOM. May 27. A ban was imposed on exports of high- speed computers and satellite-related equipment to China. June 7. The United States and Japan agreed to control exports of supercomputers to developing countries while easing restrictions on exports to countries in Western Europe and the Pacific Rim. June 8. The United States and Japan signed a new Semiconductor Arrangement to replace the 1986 Semiconductor Arrangement; the agreement came into effect on August 1,1991. The agreement would increase market access of foreign firms to the Jap- anese semiconductor market. July 31. The United States and Japan signed a new Major Projects Arrangement; the arrangement came into effect on August 1, 1991. It would in- crease access of U.S. firms to public construction projects in Japan over the next 15 years. September 1. The Department of Commerce began to implement new and less restrictive COCOM rules governing high-technology exports to Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union. Controls were relaxed on exports of electronics, advanced mate- rials and processing, telecommunications, avionics, navigation, aircraft technology, marine technology, computers, and propulsion systems. October 28. The president issued an Executive Order prohibiting goods, services, or technology from being exported to Haiti, directly or indirectly. Informational materials are exempted, as are dona- tions of articles intended to relieve human suffering (such as food, clothing, medicine, and medical sup- plies), rice, beans, sugar, wheat flour, and cooking oil. Parts or materials may be specifically licensed by the U.S. Treasury Department for assembly or pro- cessing into goods for return to the United States. Assets of the Government of Haiti were frozen effective October 4. December 19. Under Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974, the USTR determined that certain copyright enforcement practices in Thailand are unreasonable and constitute a burden or restriction on commerce and decided to continue to monitor actions taken by Thailand to improve enforcement. Capital August 17. The Congress enacted legislation to make permanent the Exon-Florio provision of the Omnibus Trade Act. It authorizes the president to investigate and block foreign acquisitions of U.S. firms for national security reasons. December 19. The Libyan Sanctions Regulations were modified to prohibit Libya from clearing or exchanging funds in third countries through U.S. banks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Uruguay is the Uruguayan New Peso. The exchange rate system is operated as a managed float. The Central Bank buys and sells only at the higher and lower limits of a 4 percent band and allows the rate to float freely within these limits. On December 31, 1991, the buying and sell- ing interbank rates for the U.S. dollar, the interven- tion currency, were NUr$2,488.0 and NUr$2,489.0, respectively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies are based on U.S. dollar rates in exchange markets abroad. A tax of 0.05 percent is levied on sales of foreign exchange for interbank transactions settled in Uru- guayan new pesos; the tax is 2.0 percent for sales of foreign exchange if a transaction involves any in- stitution or agent outside the financial system. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. There are no limits on the amount of foreign exchange that the Central Bank may sell to or buy from the (state-owned) Bank of the Republic, and the Mortgage Bank, private commercial banks, and financial and exchange houses. Uruguay formally accepted the obligations of Ar- ticle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 2, 1980. Administration of Control Exchange transactions are carried out through authorized banks, financial houses, exchange houses, and the Bank of the Republic. Any person or firm may conduct exchange transactions in the market, provided this does not become a customary business. Exchange houses must also be authorized by the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Payments between Uruguay and the countries with which Uruguay has concluded reciprocal credit agreements may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the central banks, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Associa- tion (LAIA); these countries are Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, and Venezuela. There are separate arrangements for trade in spec- ified goods with Argentina, Brazil, and Mexico, among other countries. There is a similar arrange- ment with Cuba, but settlements are effected in a currency other than the U.S. dollar. All settlements of balances under the multilateral clearing system are made in U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to registration. The regis- trations are generally valid for 180 days, within which period goods must be cleared through customs. Most imports are subject to import surcharges. The surcharge rates are within a range of 10-30 per- cent and are payable to the Bank of the Republic at the time of registration. Full or partial exemption from these surcharges is granted for imports from member countries of the LAIA, imports of agri- cultural inputs, imports by the public sector, im- ports of machinery, equipment, tools, and spare parts for certain priority industries, and imports under the temporary admission scheme. Most imports are also subject to a customs tariff (impuesto aduanero unico, IMADUNI) collected by the customs office. Tariff rates vary between zero and 16 percent. There are exemptions to IMADUNI. The combined tariff rate (tasa global arancelaria, (TGA)), which includes surcharges and customs tariffs, is limited to a maximum of 40 percent, and there are three rate categories: 10, 20, and 30 percent. With effect from April 18, 1990, each of the three lower rate categories was raised, as a temporary revenue- raising measure, by 5 percentage points until Sep- tember 1, 1991. Some items have officially assessed prices, which may be either reference prices (precios de referenda) or minimum export prices (precios minimos de expor- tation). In both cases, the TGA is calculated on the assessed price or on the actual c . i . f. price, which- ever is higher. In the latter case, there is an addi- tional surcharge (recargo movil) equal to the dif- ference between the minimum export price and the c . i . f. price. In all other cases, the TGA is calculated on the c . i . f. price. Payments for Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for invis- ibles or the exportation of foreign or domestic bank notes. 522 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY 523 Exports and Export Proceeds From time to time, and for special reasons (for example, stock position, protection, or sanitary con- siderations), certain exports are prohibited or are subject to special conditions. Some traditional exports, such as meat (mutton, beef, and horse), greasy wool (scoured and semi- scoured), dry, salted, and pickled hides, and live- stock on the hoof (except pedigree or pure crossbred), are subject to an export tax at the rate of 5 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no surrender requirements on the pro- ceeds from invisibles, and there are no limitations on the importation of foreign or domestic bank notes. Capital Inward and outward private capital transfers by either residents or nonresidents may be made freely, with the exception of certain inward and outward transfers relating to investments regis- tered under the Foreign Investment Law. (In prac- tice, this exception is not enforced.) The amortiza- tion or liquidation proceeds of foreign capital registered under this law cannot normally be trans- ferred abroad until three years af ter the date on which the investment was approved. Gold Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement December 1. The margin within which the ex- change rate is allowed to float freely was widened to 4 percent from 2 percent. Administration of Control March 26. Uruguay signed a t rea ty with Argen- tina, Brazil, and Paraguay to fo rm a common mar- ket (MERCOSUR). The agreement, which will take e f f e ct on Janua ry 1, 1995, provided for f ree move- ments of goods, capital, and labor between the member countries. Internal t a r i f fs will be re- moved, and a common external ta r i ff will be estab- lished. In the period leading up to 1995, internal t a r i f fs are to be reduced gradually and re- ciprocally. Safeguards will be allowed for indus- tries specifically exempted in each country dur ing an interim period, and reference prices are to be enforced to prevent dump ing. Imports and Import Payments May 1. The import reference prices for 38 prod- ucts were eliminated and those for 81 products were lowered; reference prices for 47 products thus re- mained unchanged. September 1. The tariff regime was modified to three rates from four, with a reduction in the max- imum tariff to 30 percent from 40 percent. Residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, and sell financial gold with a fineness of not less than 0.9 in Uruguay or abroad. Gold for indus- trial purposes is subject to the general policy gov- erning the exportation, importation, and trading of goods. Exports and Export Proceeds May 1. Minimum export prices for 6 products were eliminated, those for 12 were lowered, and those for 8 products were transferred to the refer- ence price system; minimum export prices for 29 products thus remained unchanged. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VANUATU (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Vanuatu is the Vatu, the external value of which is determined on the basis of an undisclosed transactions-weighted basket of cur- rencies. The Reserve Bank of Vanuatu buys and sells foreign exchange daily, and buying and selling rates of the vatu against major currencies (Aus- tralian dollars, French francs, deutsche mark, Jap- anese yen, and New Zealand dollars) are quoted within margins of 0.25 percent around the middle rate. The Reserve Bank deals with the commercial banks only in U.S. dollars on a spot basis, and buys and sells foreign exchange only in transactions with the commercial banks for account of the Govern- ment or for commercial banks' operations. On De- cember 31,1991, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar (for telegraphic transfers) were VT 110.56 and VT 111.07 per US$1, respectively. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward exchange rate cover facilities operating in the official sector. As a rule, the commercial banks also do not provide forward exchange rate cover facilities. Vanuatu formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from December 1, 1982. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts of resi- dents and nonresidents. Debits and credits to all accounts may be made freely. Imports and Import Payments All items may be freely imported with the excep- tion of the following: any goods that are controlled under internal legislation in the interest of national health and well-being, such as arms and ammuni- tion, explosives, and dangerous drugs; and certain plants, foodstuffs, and animals, which are also re- stricted and subject to authorization. The importa- tion of chicken pieces, canned soft drinks, and T-shirts bearing a Vanuatu motif is restricted through import-licensing arrangements. A similar restriction is applied to the importation of five basic products —rice, sugar, flour, canned fish, and to- bacco products —under a scheme designed to provide funds for the National Cooperative Federa- tion. Three importers pay a commission fee to the Cooperative for the right to import these five products. Customs duties are levied mainly on an ad va- lorem basis on the c .i .f. value of imports. Certain goods, including spirits, wine, beer, tobacco prod- ucts, and petroleum products, are subject to specific rates of import duty. Imported goods that compete with locally produced equivalents are generally lia- ble to high duty rates. A customs service tax of 5 percent is applied to most imports based on the duty-inclusive import value. Goods imported for a specified end use may be exempt from import duties. These include goods imported by or on behalf of the Government that are funded by external aid, goods imported for sale to and exported by tourists, ships' stores (including fuels), goods imported for processing and re- exportation, and goods imported for investment projects. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisibles. Exports and Export Proceeds With a few exceptions, no restrictions are applied on exports. The exportation of logs has been banned for environmental reasons since 1990. Exports of trochus, green snails, beches-de-mer, and crusta- ceans1 are subject to authorization from the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries, and Forestry. Copra and cocoa exports are channeled through the Vanuatu Commodities Marketing Board (VCMB), and ex- ports of coffee are subject to authorization from the VCMB. Artifacts that are five years old or more are subject to authorization from the Cultural Center. Most exports are subject to export duties, mainly on an ad valorem basis (f .o .b .); specific duties are levied on some minor exports, including scrap metal. There are no surrender requirements for ex- port proceeds. including coconut crabs for conservation purposes. 524 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VANUATU 525 Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered. Gold There are no restrictions on gold transactions, Capital All inward and outward movements of capital are unrestricted. Changes During 1991 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Venezuela is the Venezuelan Bolivar. Venezuela maintains a unified, interbank exchange system under which the currency is al- lowed to float in response to market forces. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency. The Central Bank of Venezuela participates in the interbank market at the prevailing market-determined ex- change rate; its foreign exchange sales are con- ducted so as to maintain both an orderly develop- ment in the interbank market and its net international reserve targets. The Central Bank quotes daily reference exchange rates for the bolivar in terms of the U.S. dollar, which are the modes of the buying and selling rates at the closing of the interbank market. The country's largest exporter, the state-owned Petroleum Corporation (PDVSA) and its affiliates, is obliged to sell to the Central Bank its foreign exchange earnings, except for those needed to maintain working balances at a level pre- approved by the Central Bank Directorate. The Cen- tral Bank enters into agreement with PDVSA on the amount to be bought at the average interbank sell- ing rate minus 10 centavos. The Central Bank's ref- erence exchange rate applies to official foreign ex- change transactions, other than with PDVSA, that must be effected through the Central Bank, which mainly include disbursements and debt-service payments associated with public and publicly guar- anteed external debt and imports of goods and ser- vices by the Central Government. The reference rate of the Central Bank on December 31, 1991 was Bs 61.55 per US$1. All other current and capital transactions are effec ted through the interbank for- eign exchange market at the unified, market- determined rate. Resident commercial banks and exchange houses are designated as authorized foreign exchange dealers. Exchange houses are allowed to deal only in narrowly defined cash (currency notes, coins, and traveler's checks) and are not authorized to hold or trade in foreign currency deposits. Resident com- mercial banks are allowed to hold foreign exchange deposits, sell such deposits to, and buy them from, other commercial banks, and purchase foreign cur- rency personal checks. Sales of foreign exchange by authorized dealers to nonresident corporations, ex- cept to correspondent banks, are prohibited. Tour- ism establishments are allowed to o f fer their clients foreign exchange services in the form of purchases and sales of foreign currency notes, coins, and trav- eler's checks. Cover against exchange risk is provided through forward foreign exchange contracts negotiated freely between participants in the interbank market without the intervention of the Central Bank. How- ever, as of the end of 1991, the forward foreign exchange market remained underdeveloped mainly as a result of limitations affecting the domestic fi- nancial markets. Venezuela formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment on July 1, 1976. Administration of Control Foreign exchange policies are established by the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank. Within the guidelines prescribed by the Ministry of Fi- nance, the Central Bank Directorate regulates and supervises the foreign exchange activities of autho- rized dealers. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, the Ministry of Development, the Ministry of Defense, or the Ministry of Foreign Rela- tions, depending on the product. The Superintendency of Foreign Investment (SIEX), attached to the Ministry of Finance, over- sees the registration of foreign direct investments, contracts involving technology transfers, and the use of foreign patents and trademarks. Venezuela has concluded a trade agreement with the Cartagena Agreement countries, under which all customs duties and other trade barriers affecting trade with Bolivia, Colombia, and Venezuela will be eliminated effective January 1, 1992 and those af- fecting trade with the rest of the member countries (Ecuador and Peru) will be eliminated effective July 1, 1992. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Payments between Venezuela and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, the Domini- can Republic, Ecuador, Jamaica, Mexico, Peru, and Uruguay may be settled through accounts main- tained with each other by the Central Bank of Vene- zuela and the central banks of the countries concerned. 526 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA 527 Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. Arms and ammunition may be imported only by the Gov- ernment. Some imports, irrespective of country of origin, are subject to licensing control for environ- mental, health, or security reasons. At the end of 1991, import licenses aimed at protecting domestic industries covered 320 manufactured import items (or 5 percent of all manufactured import items in the Tariff Code), including 120 luxury goods and 200 agro-industrial products; however, it was estimated that less than 5 percent of manufacturing produc- tion was protected. Quantitative restrictions also apply to a number of agricultural imports. Pay- ments for imports can be effected freely through the interbank market. Imports are normally financed with 90-day letters of credit opened at a domestic commercial bank or with suppliers' credits. Customs tariffs on manufactured goods are mostly on an ad valorem basis; there are four basic rates (5,10,15, and 25 percent). The maximum rate of 25 percent applies only to automobiles. Specific tariffs apply to agricultural products and to certain products included in Chapter 27 of the Tariff Code (for example, mineral fuels, oil, mineral wax, dis- tilled products, and bituminous substances). Ex- emptions from customs tar iffs are granted only to the products in the "basic basket" consisting of the following products: precooked maize, flour, canned sardines, special powdered milk, mixed vegetable oil, sugar, pasteurized white cheese, pulses, essen- tial medicines, fertilizers, and urban and intercity passenger transportation vehicles. In addition to customs tar iffs, all imports are sub- ject to customs service charges assessed on an ad valorem basis. These charges are 5 percent for arti- cles imported by air, land, and sea, and 2 percent for articles imported in postal packages. Storage charges apply to imports that remain in customs warehouses for more than 12 days. The industrial free zone of Paraguana and the Free Port of Mar- garita Island enjoy a special customs regime that includes exemptions from customs tar iffs. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely through the interbank market without limit, except that an annual ceiling applies to dividend remit- tances on direct foreign investment in priority areas associated with debt-to-equity conversion schemes (see section on Capital, below). A fee of Bs 900 is charged to travelers leaving Venezuela for business purposes; the fee for tourists and children under the age of 12 is Bs 505. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. There are no other controls or restrictions on exports, except for products included in the basic basket and certain goods specified by the Government for reasons of public interest.1 With the exception of the export earnings of PDVSA and its affiliates, export pro- ceeds are not subject to surrender requirements and may be sold freely in the interbank market. Exports of agricultural commodities are entitled to a fiscal credit at the rate of 10 percent of the f .o.b. value in the form of a negotiable bond, which is issued by the Ministry of Finance. These bonds may be used for tax payments. Fiscal credits for man- ufactured exports have been replaced by a system of drawback of customs duties that are paid on im- ported inputs used in export production. Draw- backs take the form of tax reimbursement certifi- cates issued by the Ministry of Finance. The rate of drawbacks is 2 percent of the f .o.b. value for exports incorporating goods imported under the import ar- rangements for inward processing and 5 percent for other exports. Drawbacks are not granted to exports that exceeded $60 million in 1990. PDVSA and Ferrominera Orinoco have the mo- nopoly on the exportation of hydrocarbons and iron ore, respectively. The National Funds for Coffee and Cocoa, which are autonomous institutions attached to the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, have the monopoly on the exportation of coffee and co- coa, respectively. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are not subject to sur- render requirements. Travelers may freely import domestic and foreign currency, except that foreign coins other than gold coins may not be imported for commercial purposes. Capital Direct foreign investments in the petroleum and iron ore sectors are prohibited. Mass media, com- munications, Spanish printing presses, and se- curity services are reserved for national ownership. New investments do not require prior authorization from the SIEX; ex post registration with the SIEX is required, and approval is automatically granted if the new investment is consistent with national leg- islation. Foreign enterprises may establish subsid- iaries in Venezuela without prior authorization as 1 Among the articles subject to export licenses are certain agri- cu l tural products (milk, green peas, lentils, dry beans, rice, and maize), prepared and canned sardines, saccharose, sugar, ura- nium and thorium minerals, metallic minerals, and fertilizers. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 528 VENEZUELA long as they are consistent with the Commerce Code; the SIEX mus t, however, be notified within 60 working days about newly established subsid- iaries. The reinvestment of prof i ts does not re- quire prior authorization and is not restricted. There are no restrictions on dividend remittances or on the repatriation of capital, provided that all domestic taxes have been paid, except that capital repatriation in respect of investments associated with debt-to-equity conversions is not allowed for the first five years following registration and is subject to an annual maximum of 12.5 percent of the registered investment during the next eight years. Foreign investors are allowed to purchase corporate stocks in the Caracas Stock Exchange but must in fo rm the SIEX of such purchases within 60 working days. External public debt is converted into equity ei- ther directly or under an auction-based mechanism. Discount rates for debt instruments eligible for con- version are determined by the Central Bank on the basis of criteria set up by a committee that was established under Decree No. 1552 of April 10,1991. A project is eligible for conversion if its total invest- ment exceeds $150 million and is in one of the fol- lowing five areas: petrochemical, aluminum, pulp and paper, tourism, and infrastructure. Individual investments in tourism could be less than $150 mil- lion (but not less than $50 million) and must involve the construction of five-star hotels. The minimum investment in infrastructure is determined by the President of the Republic. External public debt may be converted into equity to finance at least 30 percent of the total investment under a given project. In the tourism sector, this proportion could be as high as 50 percent; in in- frastructure, no requirement is imposed on this pro- portion, and the proportion is left to the discretion of the President. To effect a debt conversion, the Central Bank pur- chases the external debt with domestic currency (or domestic-currency denominated public debt se- curities), which is then deposited into a trust ac- count opened by the investor with a fiduciary agent (normally a commercial bank) in Venezuela. The agent is responsible for ensuring the proper use of the trust account and releases the funds in step with the implementation of the investment project. (As part of the required documentation, investors must submit in advance a timetable for the investment and its "domestic component" to be financed through debt conversion.) To fur ther ensure the proper use of the conversion proceeds, investors must deposit with a fiduciary agent a guarantee (equivalent to 5 percent of the total investment), which can be reduced in line with the implementa- tion of the investment. There are no restrictions on conversions of private external debt into private domestic debt or equity; these conversions may be effected freely through the interbank market. Gold Venezuelan gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold, acquire, and sell gold coins in Venezuela for num isma t ic and investment purposes. Gold coins, medallions, and bars are freely negotiated among authorized travelers, exchange houses, and the public. Com- mercial banks may free ly negotiate gold coins among themselves and other residents but do not normally deal in gold with the public. Imports and exports of monetary gold and imports of gold coins that are legal tender in Venezuela are re- served for the Central Bank. Imports and exports of nonmonetary gold (other than jewelry for personal use) and of gold coins eligible as legal tender in Venezuela or abroad are subject to prior authorization by the Central Bank. In addition, imports may require licenses from the Central Bank and, in some cases, from the Ministry of Development. The Central Bank may authorize private exporters to export gold bars, provided that such exports are reimported following transforma- tion processes not available in the country and that the reimported gold is used as an input in domestic production. Changes During 1991 Administration of Control December 1. A trade agreement was signed with the Cartagena Agreement countries, under which all customs tariffs and other trade barriers affecting trade between Bolivia, Colombia, and Venezuela would be eliminated effective January 1, 1992, and those affecting trade with the rest of the countries (Ecuador and Peru) would be eliminated effective July 1, 1992. Imports and Import Payments February 5. Quantitative restrictions on certain ag- ricultural products were replaced by a sliding tariff regime based on international prices (G.O. No. 34650). Exports and Export Proceeds May 20. The scheme of fiscal credits for manufac- tured goods was replaced by a scheme of drawback ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA 529 of customs duties paid on imported inputs used in export production. The rate of drawback would be 2 percent for export production using inputs im- ported under the import arrangements for inward processing and 5 percent for others. Capital April 10. The regime for converting external pub- lie debt into equity investment was amended (De- cree No. 1552). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET NAM (Position on January 1, 1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Viet Nam is the Dong. Before Au- gust 30, 1991, the exchange rate of the dong was quoted in terms of the U.S. dollar by the State Bank of Viet Nam (SBVN). Adjustments to that exchange rate, aimed at maintaining the spread with the par- allel market exchange rate within a range of 10- 20 percent, were made at irregular intervals in light of developments in the parallel foreign exchange market, the domestic price of gold, internal com- modity prices, and international prices. Banks were authorized to set exchange rates up to a maximum of 5 percent above the official exchange rate and quote a spread of 2 percent between the buying and selling rates. During 1991, this official exchange rate in terms of the U.S. dollar was adjusted on nine occasions, from D 6,500 per US$1 on January 1 to D 8,300 per US$1 on August 29.l In August and November 1991, a foreign ex- change trading floor was established at the branch of the State Bank in Ho Chi Minh City. Foreign exchange (only U.S. dollars) is auctioned in this market twice a week (Tuesdays and Fridays). Forty public entities, consisting of 7 commercial banks and 33 foreign trade organizations, and gold pro- ducing companies participate in this market. An annual participation fee of $200 is levied in dongs; in addition, a commission of 0.01 percent is payable on each transaction in dongs by purchasers of foreign exchange, with a maximum of $100. The trading floor has a management board, composed of four state bank employees and three commercial bank employees; a representative of the SBVN serves as the chairman. The center obtains bids for purchases and sales of foreign exchange before each session. Economic entities that need foreign exchange for their import needs or debt-repayment obligations are allowed to submit their bids to the market seven days before the due date of payment. Banks are required to ensure that economic entities' applica- tions for foreign exchange purchases conform with current foreign trade and exchange restrictions (for 1 Until December 31,1990, most of Viet Nam's trade and finan- cial settlements with the other members of the Council for Mu- tual Economic Assistance (CMEA) (Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslo- vakia, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, and the former U.S.S.R.) were effected in transferable rubles through the Inter- national Bank for Economic Cooperation. Since January 1, 1991, these settlements have been effected freely in convertible currencies. example, the requirement to have an import license) and that they actually possess resources before en- gaging in a transaction. The final (closing) rate at each trade session is the fixing rate. Between the time a session ends and the opening of the following session, all commercial banks are required to sell at a rate within 0.5 percent of the fixing rate, and they are required to buy at the fixing rate. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the SBVN. Foreign trade is administered by the Ministry of Trade and Tourism, which supervises the opera- tions carried out by the foreign trade organizations (FTOs) and firms with direct foreign trading rights. Import and export licenses, which are required for all trade transactions, are issued by the Ministry of Trade and Tourism. FTOs and firms engaged in international trade must submit annual plans for their imports and exports, which must be approved by the State Planning Committee; however, revi- sions of the plans may be requested every three months. Settlements of international trade transac- tions, borrowing, and management of foreign as- sets are carried out mainly by the Bank of Foreign Trade.2 Most grants in convertible currencies from bilateral official donors and international organiza- tions are under the supervision of the Committee for Reception and Management of Aid, an agency attached to the Ministry of Finance. Foreign invest- ment is monitored and coordinated by the State Committee for Cooperation and Investment. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Most transactions with the former Soviet Union are channeled through the state budget. The Minis- try of Finance carries out most payments with the former Soviet Union and is responsible for manag- ing the commodity and project assistance received 2In 1991, the following banks were also authorized to carry out international transactions: Bank for Industry and Commerce in Saigon and Ho Chi Minh City, EXIM Bank, Marine Bank, and Agricultural Bank. 530 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET NAM 531 from it, while the State Planning Committee is re- sponsible for monitoring trade with the former So- viet Union. Trade transactions with Albania, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea are settled through indi- vidual clearing accounts using clearing (or bilateral) rubles. Transactions with the Lao People's Demo- cratic Republic are settled under a bilateral pay- ments arrangement; the balance of transactions be- tween the two countries is determined every quarter and settled in U.S. dollars at the end of each year. Transactions with Cambodia are settled under a clearing arrangement in domestic currencies at a bilaterally agreed exchange rate of D 12 per CR1. Bilateral payments agreements with Mali and the Syrian Arab Republic have been inoperative for sev- eral years. Nonresident and Resident Accounts Nonresidents are permitted to maintain nonresi- dent accounts either in foreign currencies or in con- vertible dong; however, they may not open interest- yielding bank accounts in dong. Nonresidents can freely reconvert into foreign currency and transfer abroad unused balances in Vietnamese currency that have been acquired against foreign currency. Vietnamese citizens are allowed to sell foreign ex- change in their possession to banks, or to deposit it into interest-bearing foreign currency bank ac- counts. Foreign currency deposited in a bank may be withdrawn for payments or transferred to other units or individuals. Savings accounts in foreign currency for households were introduced in May 1991. These accounts offer an annual interest rate of 9.6 percent for time deposits and 6 percent for sight deposits. Imports and Exports Import and export activities are regulated by De- cision No. 64 of the Council of Ministers of June 10, 1989. Import and export plans are drawn up an- nually on the basis of the overall annual economic plan and of bilateral trade agreements with former CMEA countries. In 1990, the role of these plans was sharply reduced, and frequent revisions in the annual targets were authorized. Since 1989, produc- ing firms and local authorities have been allowed to make trade decisions, thus reducing substantially the previous state monopoly over trade transac- tions. The majority of quotas on exports and imports have been removed, and only four items remain on the export quota list (rice, logs and lumber, coffee, and rubber), and four domestically produced goods on the import quota list (clothes, spare parts for electronics, beer, and inputs for making cigarettes). Import prohibitions, introduced in July 1990 for the remainder of the year on cigarettes, china dishes, plastic items, processed food, and batteries contin- ued to be maintained in 1991; licensing for each shipment in and out of Viet Nam continues to be required. Trade transactions are carried out by about 600 firms, including 140 FTOs, which produce export- able goods or purchase them from producers. About 300 producers have temporary or permanent trading rights, which allow them to export and im- port directly; about 160 foreign-owned or joint- venture firms trade directly with foreign partners. State-owned firms with an annual export turnover of more than $5 million may obtain permanent for- eign direct trading rights, while those with an ex- port turnover in the range of $2-5 million may obtain temporary (annual) foreign direct trading rights. Other firms may obtain direct export permits on the basis of shipments or trade with an FTO. On May 3, 1990, the Council of Ministers issued Decree No. 131, which stipulates that, with effect from Jan- uary 1,1991, all firms will be permitted to engage in international trade, irrespective of forms of owner- ship and subject only to registration with the Minis- try of Trade and payment of a fee. At the end of 1991, this decree was not yet in force. Local FTOs are permitted to export all com- modities, and local firms may import the com- modities that they need for production. The pro- curement of exportable goods is normally unrestricted, except for some sensitive goods (such as rice), for which a minimum export price prevails. Import prices are freely determined on the basis of world market prices. Under Decision No. 188 of the Council of Minis- ters, export earnings are subject to various sur- render requirements, ranging up to 30 percent; however, this regulation is not strictly enforced. In practice, full retention of foreign exchange receipts has been tolerated by the authorities. All receipts must be repatriated within 30 days, except for spe- cial cases authorized by the Governor of the State Bank, such as for firms with marketing or represen- tative activities abroad. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All transactions in invisibles require individual authorization from the Ministry of Finance. Foreign exchange is made available upon authorization of the transaction. Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. The foreign exchange allocation for travel abroad is limited to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 532 VIET NAM $20, but travelers may use their own foreign ex- change. Holders of foreign exchange are authorized to buy foreign and local consumer goods in special government shops. Receipts from transactions in invisibles must be surrendered to the State Bank. Capital Foreign direct investment is regulated by a For- eign Investment Code approved by the National Assembly in 1987. The code provides for three forms of foreign investment: (1) contracted business cooperation, such as product-sharing arrange- ments; (2) joint ventures between a foreign investor and a Vietnamese state economic organization; and (3) firms wholly owned by foreign investors. The permitted share of foreign capital is no less than 30 percent, and there is no maximum limit. Other provisions in the code include: (1) a 20-year limit on the duration of the enterprise with foreign capital, which, however, can be extended for a longer period; (2) a tax of 5-10 percent (not yet in effect), to be levied on the remittance of profits abroad; and (3) income taxes, to be paid at the reduced rates of 15-25 percent, starting two years af ter the first profit-making year. In 1990, the code was amended to allow domestic private firms to participate with foreign firms in investment projects. Provisions for repatriation of profits were also amended, including a scheme to use domestic currency to purchase exportable goods, the proceeds from which could be retained abroad. The authority to grant foreign investment li- censes is entrusted to the State Committee for Co- operation and Investment, which consults with the provincial authorities concerned. Since 1988, some three hundred projects have been approved, with a total committed capital of about $2.4 billion; invest- ments amounting to about $465 million had taken place as of the end of 1991. In principle, 100 percent of profits may be repatriated; however, in practice, the conversion of profits in domestic currency into foreign currency for repatriation is subject to pre- vailing foreign exchange regulations. Land cannot be owned by foreign investors but must be leased from the state. Beginning October 1988, Vietnamese organiza- tions and citizens who need foreign currency for production and business purposes have been per- mitted, upon verification by competent agencies, to borrow foreign currency or obtain a bank guarantee for loans in foreign currency. If allowed to borrow directly from foreign countries under commercial credit, the borrower must report periodically to the State Bank the expenditures in foreign currency from funds deposited abroad, including loan repayments. Gold Gold may be brought into the country, provided that required customs declarations are made and a customs tariff is paid; nonresidents are entitled to export gold up to the amount they brought in. The price of gold for domestic transactions is set at auc- tions organized by the Viet Nam Gold and Silver Trading Company. The importation of gold by resi- dents requires a license extended by the State Bank. The authority of the provincial council to extend gold import licenses was withdrawn in 1989. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement August 30. A foreign exchange center was opened at the state bank branch in Ho Chi Minh City. The closing rate on this trading floor would be used as the official market exchange rate. Commercial banks were required to buy at this rate, but were allowed to sell at a rate that does not exceed this rate by more than 0.5 percent. Nonresident and Resident Accounts May 1. A foreign currency savings account facility for households was introduced. Accounts would offer interest rates of 9.6 percent a year on time deposits and 6 percent a year on sight deposits. Imports and Exports March 1. The import duty on petroleum products was raised to 15 percent from 8 percent for gasoline and to 12 percent from 8 percent for diesel oil. April 1. The export duty on rice was reduced to 1 percent from 10 percent, and export producers were exempted from the import duties on inputs used for export production. The list of items subject to export quotas was reduced to four items (rice, logs and lumber, coffee, and rubber), and the list of items subject to import quotas was reduced to four items (clothes, spare parts for electronics, beer, and inputs for making cigarettes). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution WESTERN SAMOA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Western Samoa is the Western Samoa Tala. The exchange rate of the tala is deter- mined on the basis of a fixed relationship between the tala and a weighted basket of currencies of West- ern Samoa's main trading partners. The Central Bank of Samoa has the authority to make discretion- ary exchange rate adjustments against the currency basket within a margin of up to 2 percent. On De- cember 31, 1991, the buying and selling rates of the tala in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were WS$1 per US$0.41268 and WS$1 per US$0.40411, respectively. Exchange rates for the tala against other currencies are established on the basis of their daily rates against the U.S. dollar. An exchange levy of 1 percent is charged on gross sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk in the offi- cial or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Overall responsibility for the administration of exchange control rests with the Central Bank, which delegates part of its powers to authorized banks. In principle, all payments to nonresidents of Western Samoa require the approval of the Central Bank. However, the Bank of Western Samoa and the Pa- cific Commercial Bank —the only authorized banks —are empowered to approve certain pay- ments up to any amount, and certain other pay- ments up to specified amounts. Prescription of Currency There are no prescriptions as to the currencies in which payments to or from nonresidents of Western Samoa must be made or received. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between the accounts of residents and nonresidents of Western Samoa. Nonresidents may, with the approval of the Central Bank, open external or foreign currency accounts with one of the two commercial banks. Imports and Import Payments There are no import-licensing requirements. The importation of a few products is prohibited for rea- sons of security or health. Other products may be imported from any source without restriction, with the exception of used cars, buses and bus chassis, and dump trucks, the importation of which requires prior approval from the Central Bank. Approvals for these items are, however, granted liberally. Imports with a c . i .f. value of more than WS$15,000 must be financed by a letter of credit. Imports with a c . i .f. value of between WS$5,000 and WS$15,000 must be settled with a sight draf t. And imports with a c . i . f. value of less than WS$5,000 may be imported under open account, provided that payments for such im- ports are effected within 30 days of their arrival in Western Samoa. Payments for Invisibles Payments for certain invisibles may be ap- proved by the authorized banks up to specified limits. Payments in excess of these limits, as well as payments for all other invisibles, require the prior approval of the Central Bank, which is granted when applications are supported by doc- umen tary proof that capital transactions are not involved. The central bank approval process that governs the remittance of invisible payments is concerned only with the bona fide na ture of the transaction. Residents and expatriates traveling overseas for private purposes are entitled to a foreign currency allowance equivalent to WS$200 a person a day, sub ject to a limit of WS$3,000 a person a trip; children under 15 years of age are entitled to 50 percent of the adu lt allowances. In the case of travel for business purposes, the daily allowance is WS$300 a person, with a limit of WS$4,500 a trip. The Central Bank gran ts supple- men tary allocations against evidence that foreign exchange is being used for approved purposes. As part of their foreign currency allowance, resident travelers may take out foreign bank notes equiv- alent to WS$1,000 a person a tr ip. All requests from residents of Western Samoa to remit funds to residents studying abroad to cover their education expenses must be supported by doc- umentary evidence confirming that the beneficiary is enrolled at an educational institution abroad. There is no specific limit for such remittances, but the amount requested must be supported by docu- mentary evidence for costs (fees, accommodation, meals, etc.) and must be in line with costs prevailing in the countries of study. Each resident of Western 533 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 534 WESTERN SAMOA Samoa who has dependents living abroad may re- mit, from his own resources, an amount not exceed- ing WS$2,000 a donor a year for purposes of sup- porting such dependents. The Central Bank considers requests in excess of this amount on merit. Although no limit is set on remittances to cover expenses for medical treatment abroad, docu- mentary evidence must be provided to support re- quests for such remittances. Expatriate workers are allowed to repatriate up to 80 percent of their net earnings on a fortnightly or monthly basis; their surplus earnings may be re- patriated at the end of their contract. Travelers may not take out any domestic currency. A 15 percent withholding tax is levied on remit- tances of dividends at the source and on interest payments on overseas loans. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require export licenses issued by the Customs Department. Exports may be prohibited by the Director of Agriculture on grounds of low quality, or by order of the head of state to alleviate domestic shortages. Export proceeds f rom goods shipped to countries other than American Samoa must be surrendered to the authorized banks within three months of the date of shipment; export proceeds from goods shipped to American Samoa must be surrendered to the authorized bank within four weeks of the date of shipment. Certificates validated by an authorized bank are required for exports in excess of WS$250. Proceeds from Invisibles All foreign currencies earned by residents in per- forming services for nonresidents must be surren- dered to the authorized banks. Resident travelers must, on their return, sell to the banks all unused foreign currency they brought in. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign bank notes but may not bring in any domes- tic bank notes. Capital All outward capital transfers by residents require the specific approval of the Central Bank. Inward capital remittances do not normally require ap- proval, but borrowing abroad by all residents (in- cluding banks) requires the prior approval of the Central Bank. Authorized banks may approve transfers of gifts to relatives and dependents, either for special family occasions or for maintenance, up to WS$250 a person a year. Requests for larger amounts may be approved by the Central Bank on a case-by-case basis. Foreign investments in specified activities in Western Samoa are encouraged. Under the Enterprises Incentive Act, persons engaged in approved enterprises are granted certain relief from income tax and business license fees. Both the re- patriation of capital and profit remittances on for- eign capital must be approved by the Central Bank; such approval is normally granted. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form. There are no restrictions on im- ports or exports of gold. Changes During 1991 Imports and Import Payments December 31. An announcement was made that a six-month ban on imports of cigarettes and beer would be lifted effective January 15, 1992. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF YEMEN1 (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Republic of Yemen is the Yemeni Rial, which is pegged to the U . S. dollar, the intervention currency, at YRls 12.01 per US$1.2 On December 31, 1991, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were YRls 12.00 and YRls 12.02, respectively, per US$1. Buying and sell- ing rates for 12 other currencies3 are fixed daily by the Central Bank of Yemen on the basis of rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. The official rate applies to oil exports, imports of liquefied petroleum gas, payments of interest and principal on public external debt, government re- ceipts from nonresidents, limited allocations of for- eign exchange for students studying abroad or resi- dents traveling abroad for medical treatment, the Government's transactions with Yemeni embassies, payments for hotel bills and airline tickets by non- Yemeni nationals, and payments to nonnationals working for the Government. Foreign exchange for imports of wheat, flour, and rice is provided by the Central Bank at the rate of YRls 16.00 per US$1. All other foreign exchange transactions take place in the parallel market, which is tolerated but not legally recognized. The exchange rate in the parallel mar- ket, which had remained close to the official rate until the liberalization of the exchange system in August 1990, was approximately YRls 29 per US$1 in early January 1992. The parallel market is oper- ated by money changers inside Yemen and outside the country (mainly in Jidda, Saudi Arabia). The latter acquire foreign exchange primarily from ex- patriate Yemeni workers and credit the accounts of the money changers with commercial banks in the Republic of Yemen. Commercial banks are allowed to purchase foreign exchange domestically (from customers and tourists) and abroad at the official exchange rate to effect import payments on behalf of customers and the Central Bank. They may hold 100 percent of foreign exchange purchased on be- !Qn May 22, 1990, the Yemen Arab Republic and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen merged into a single state, the Republic of Yemen. 2The dinar of the former People's Democratic Republic of Ye- men (YD) is also circulating as legal tender at the rate of YRls 26 per YD 1 but is gradually being withdrawn from circulation. 3Deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Jordan dinars, Kuwaiti dinars, Lebanese pounds, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. half of customers, and 50 percent of the foreign exchange purchased on behalf of the Central Bank. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The Central Bank establishes a foreign exchange budget in parallel with a commodity budget pre- pared by the Ministry of Supply and Trade and the Ministry of Industry in consultation with the Cen- tral Bank. All imports require a license issued by both the Ministry of Supply and Trade and the Ministry of Industry, and licenses are sent directly to banks opening letters of credit. All enterprises are permitted to import spare parts up to a max- imum value of $5,000 for each unlicensed shipment to meet emergency requirements. The value of im- ports under this facility is not allowed to exceed $50,000 a year for each enterprise. Transactions in invisibles are supervised by the Central Bank. All commercial banks operate in the foreign exchange market only as agents of the Central Bank. They are not allowed to buy or sell foreign exchange for their own account but are allowed to do so for the ac- counts of their customers. Prescription of Currency With the exception of hotel bills and airline tickets of nonresidents, which must be paid in foreign cur- rency, there are no prescription of currency requirements. Foreign Exchange Accounts Commercial banks are permitted to open freely transferable foreign currency-denominated ac- counts for residents and nonresidents provided that the funds in these accounts are derived from (1) foreign currency transfers from abroad; (2) for- eign exchange receipts from licensed exports; (3) in- come from services rendered abroad or to nonresi- dents; (4) transfers from other freely transferable foreign currency accounts; or (5) foreign currencies, traveler's checks, or bank checks that have been declared to customs. These accounts may be used to (1) finance licensed imports; (2) transfer foreign ex- change abroad without prior approval from the Central Bank; (3) withdraw foreign currency in cash; (4) make transfers to another freely 535 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 536 REPUBLIC OF YEMEN transferable or nontransferable foreign currency ac- count; and (5) pay expenses and bank commissions. Commercial banks are permitted to open non- transferable accounts denominated in foreign cur- rency for residents and nonresidents. Funds depos- ited in these accounts may derive from (1) transfers from transferable or nontransferable foreign currency accounts; (2) foreign currency bills, traveler's checks, or bank checks, regardless of source; or (3) bank inter- est in the same foreign currency in which the account is denominated if it is the going rate on world money markets. These accounts may be used for (1) transfers to finance licensed imports; (2) local payments for a transaction in foreign exchange; (3) foreign transfers related to the operations of the account holder, subject to a maximum of $1,500 each month or $10,000 each calendar year, with transfers in excess of these limits requiring prior approval from the Central Bank; or (4) payment of foreign currency bills or other foreign exchange instruments that a bank agrees to sell, debiting the account, in order to cover the expenses of the account holder or his designee, provided that such amounts do not exceed $10,000 each calendar year; and (5) expenses and bank commissions. Imports and Import Payments An annual foreign exchange budget is prepared by the Central Bank and is approved by the Su- preme Council for Economic, Oil, and Investment Affairs. In conjunction with the foreign exchange budget, an import program is prepared annually by the Ministry of Supply and Trade and the Ministry of Industry. The priority categories are foods tuffs, petroleum products, medicines, and inputs for production. Imports from Israel and imports of certain types of used machinery for resale are prohibited. All other imports require licenses and must be pro- cessed through local commercial banks. In addition, the importation of certain products requires the per- mission of certain government agencies, and im- ports of petroleum products are reserved for the Yemen Petroleum Company, a public corporation. With the exception of medical imports, insurance for all imports must be purchased locally. All importers holding an import license for wheat, flour, rice, and liquefied petroleum gas may obtain the necessary foreign exchange from the Central Bank. Imports of other commodities must be self-financed; that is, 100 percent of the foreign exchange value of the import must be deposited in the importer's account at a commercial bank before a letter of credit may be issued. The importer may obtain the foreign exchange from any source other than the Central Bank, including from the parallel market. The commercial banks are authorized to open letters of credit for the importation of most goods, provided that such imports are self- financing. The commercial banks are thus autho- rized to accept import licenses in respect of these imports (which have been issued by the Ministry of Supply and Trade) without approval from the Cen- tral Bank. Yemeni nationals returning from abroad who use their savings in foreign exchange to establish small enterprises or craft shops are allowed to import machinery and spare parts needed for their busi- ness activities up to a limit of $40,000 with the au- thorization of the Ministry of Supply and Trade. In addition to the applicable customs duty, imports are subject to a tax of 1 percent for reconstruction re- lated to earthquake damage. Imports transported over land routes without a license are subject to a 100 percent surcharge and an advance payment of profits tax equal to 3 percent of their value. Payments for Invisibles There is no restriction on invisible payments, al- though amounts sold at the official exchange rate are limited. The Central Bank sells foreign exchange to those seeking medical treatment abroad; the amount depends on their destination and may not exceed $3,000. Larger amounts are granted only by special permission from the Central Bank. The Cen- tral Bank also sells foreign exchange to students studying abroad. There are no restrictions on out- ward remittances in foreign exchange by expatriate workers. The exportation of Yemen rial bank notes is prohibited. Payments of hotel bills and airline tickets by non- Yemeni nationals must be made in foreign currencies. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel are prohibited. For statistical purposes only, all exports must be registered on fo rms that are issued free ly by banks. Non- petroleum exporters may use 100 percent of their fore ign exchange receipts to finance imports ei- ther of their own inputs, or of any other permitted goods, as long as they have an import license. Expor ters do not have to surrender their foreign exchange proceeds, which they may retain in f ree foreign currency accounts with domestic banks. Exporters of qat are sub ject to an export du ty of 12 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF YEMEN 537 Proceeds from Invisibles Gold Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated but may be retained in foreign currency accounts with domestic banks. Travelers may freely bring in any amount in foreign bank notes. The importation of Yemen rial bank notes is prohibited. Capital Although inward and outward capital transfers are not restricted, they are subject to the provisions of the Investment Law administered by the Ministry of Industry. For approved and registered projects, this law guarantees freedom of investment, equal treatment of foreigners and nationals, the transfer abroad of net profits after taxes attributable to foreign capital, and the repatriation of registered capital on liquida- tion in the currency of investment. In practice, in- vestors are free to transfer abroad any portion of their share of net profits after taxes and other provi- sions and to repatriate their capital. Nationalization and confiscation are prohibited, except in cases of urgent public necessity, and then only with com- pensation and permission to transfer foreign capital abroad. Direct investments are authorized by the Minister of Industry upon determination that the project is economically viable and socially accept- able; a reasonable timetable for completion and other conditions must be specified. Certain tax and import duty exemptions and concessions are granted for a period of five years to approved proj- ects that meet specific economic criteria. Private capital transactions unrelated to direct investments may also be made without restriction. The registra- tion of direct foreign investments and the authen- tication of intended profit and capital repatriation are undertaken by the Ministry of Industry in coop- eration with the Central Bank. External public debt transactions are conducted through the Central Bank, which also maintains accounts of outstand- ing amounts and service payments due. Residents are free to purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in the Republic of Yemen. Changes During 1991 Imports and Import Payments January 1. Commercial banks were allowed to re- tain up to 100 percent, up from 50 percent, of for- eign exchange purchased domestically to effect im- port payments on behalf of their customers. March 1. Importers of rice, flour, and wheat were required to purchase the necessary foreign ex- change from the Central Bank at the rate of YRls 16 per US$1. (Purchases of foreign exchange for im- ports of liquefied petroleum gas continued to be made at the rate of YRls 12 per US$1.) April 14. The commercial banks were authorized to buy foreign exchange both domestically and abroad at the official exchange rate and to hold up to 50 percent of foreign exchange purchased to effect import payments on behalf of the Central Bank. August 1. The commercial banks were authorized to open letters of credit for the importation of most goods, provided that such imports are self-financing. The commercial banks were thus instructed to accept import licenses in respect of these imports (which have been issued by the Ministry of Supply and Trade) without approval from the Central Bank. (Pre- viously, the Central Bank had to approve the avail- ability of foreign exchange for all import licenses.) Payments for Invisibles August 1. Payments of hotel bills by non-Yemeni nationals, which previously could be settled in do- mestic currency, were to be made in foreign cur- rency only. November 1. Payments of airline tickets by non- Yemeni nationals, which previously could be settled in domestic currency, were to be made in foreign currency only. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA (Position on June 30, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Yugoslavia is the Yugoslav Dinar. The exchange rate of the dinar is fixed at Din 13 per deutsche mark (DM), and quoted exchange rates for all other convertible currencies1 are determined daily on the basis of the exchange rates of the cur- rencies concerned against the deutsche mark on the international market. Payments for debt-service conversion of balances in privately held foreign cur- rency accounts and certain emergency imports are conducted at the official rate pursuant to the deci- sion of the Federal Executive Council. Transactions are settled at the official exchange rate, which is also the rate at which banks deal with customers. The exchange rate for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1991 was Din 19.735 per US$1. There is also an interbank market for all other foreign exchange op- erations in which the National Bank of Yugoslavia (NBY) does not intervene. There are no taxes or other subsidies on the pur- chase or sale of foreign exchange and there are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The Federal Assembly formulates Yugoslavia's foreign exchange policy each year; the projections of its balance of payments and foreign exchange bal- ance are an important part of this policy. The Federal Executive Council prescribes the general provisions in respect of foreign trade and exchange operations. The Federal Secretariat for Foreign Eco- nomic Relations implements government decisions pertaining to certain foreign trade transactions and issues import and export licenses and instructions when required. The Federal Secretariat for Finance, the NBY, and the national banks of the republics and autonomous provinces administer the ex- change controls. The NBY prescribes the methods of payment to and from foreign countries. Foreign exchange transactions must be carried out through an authorized bank, of which there are three types: (1) fully authorized banks, which are permitted to engage in transactions with foreign countries and may engage in all foreign exchange transactions in Yugoslavia and abroad, as well as in foreign credit operations (including the granting of guarantees); (2) banks authorized to engage in foreign payments operations; and (3) banks that are autho- rized to conduct foreign exchange operations in Yugoslavia only (they may neither keep foreign ex- change accounts abroad nor engage in foreign credit operations, except through banks authorized to en- gage in foreign exchange transactions abroad). Au- thorized exchange offices may only purchase foreign bank notes and traveler's checks; this status is open to all commercial and savings banks. In addition, hotels and tourist agencies, if specifically authorized, may also purchase foreign bank notes and traveler's checks. All enterprises, irrespective of their ownership structure, may be registered with the commercial courts for purposes of engaging in foreign trade. A number of these enterprises are privately owned, in many instances by foreigners. Prescription of Currency Yugoslavia does not maintain any operative bilat- eral payments agreements, although outstanding balances in clearing U.S. dollars are in the process of being settled with Albania, Czechoslovakia, Mongolia, and the former U.S.S.R. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Foreign natural and juridical persons may main- tain accounts denominated in foreign exchange and in dinars in Yugoslavia according to the following rules: foreigners residing outside Yugoslavia may freely open accounts in convertible currencies with fully authorized banks in Yugoslavia; and foreign missions and foreigners residing in Yugoslavia may freely open accounts expressed in foreign curren- cies with any authorized bank. Foreign exchange accounts in convertible curren- cies of nonresident natural and juridical persons may be kept in deposits denominated in the curren- cies concerned.2 In principle, balances held in these Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, European Currency Units (ECUs), Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por- tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2Accounts may be denominated in any of the following curren- cies: Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 538 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA 539 accounts may be used for all payments in Yugoslavia in dinars or abroad in any of the curren- cies concerned. However, there have been con- straints and delays on withdrawals from such ac- counts, particularly in some republics. Transfers from these accounts may be made freely in the currency in which the account is kept although the specific arrangements may vary from bank to bank; outward transfers may be made in other convertible currencies, provided that the bank holding the ac- count is prepared to make the necessary conversion. Foreign natural and juridical persons may in cer- tain cases and under specified conditions open non- resident accounts in dinars with authorized banks. Such accounts may be credited freely with amounts whose transfer in convertible currency has been authorized. The possibility of using dinars from such accounts in Yugoslavia and the degree of transferability of the funds depend on the origin of the dinar deposits. Nonresident natural and juridical persons may also open other dinar accounts with authorized banks. These other accounts may be credited with dinars acquired in Yugoslavia in accordance with existing regulations. Balances are, in principle, freely transferable abroad. Transfers may be effected on the basis of reciprocity. Apart from this, foreign natural persons may keep convertible currencies on their foreign ex- change accounts or foreign exchange savings de- posits with authorized banks. These balances may be kept as sight or time deposits. Authorized banks pay interest on the balances on foreign exchange accounts and foreign exchange deposits, at the re- quest of depositors, in foreign currencies, in foreign currencies and dinars, or in dinars. Resident nationals are not, in principle, permit- ted to purchase foreign exchange from the NBY but may purchase limited amounts of foreign exchange for specific purposes from commercial banks. They may also maintain foreign exchange accounts or foreign exchange savings deposits in convertible currencies with any authorized bank. These ac- counts may be credited with foreign currencies transferred from abroad, with interest paid in dinars, or kept in dinars or in foreign exchange. Foreign exchange accounts may be retained indefi- nitely, but withdrawals in foreign exchange are lim- ited to the equivalent of DM 1,000 in any form. Balances are not transferable to other persons or between accounts (see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, below). Yugoslav nationals residing abroad, former emigrants returning to Yugoslavia, and nonresidents may also open foreign exchange accounts in Yugoslavia. Imports and Import Payments Products are classified into three categories: free (LB); subject to quotas (K); and subject to ad hoc licensing (D). At present, the LB category consists of about 88 percent of items under the customs tar iffs; they are free of quota restrictions, and payments for these imports are permitted freely. The K category, at present representing about 12 percent of total imports, consists primarily of some essential agri- cultural products and food products, some ferrous and nonferrous metals, and equipment. The quotas are set annually by the Federal Executive Council (in volume or in value terms) and are allocated to indi- vidual enterprises by the Yugoslav Chamber of Economy. If quotas are not allocated among the enterprises within the Yugoslav Chamber of Econ- omy or if allocations do not correspond to estab- lished criteria, the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Economic Relations is authorized to distribute im- ports among individual enterprises. Imports subject to licensing by the Federal Secre- tariat for Foreign Economic Relations (D list) include products whose importation is controlled by inter- national agreement for noneconomic reasons (for example, arms, illegal drugs and narcotics, and his- torical and artistic work). The importation of these products is allowed on an individual basis and for specific purposes. In addition, the importation of certain goods originating from some countries, par- ticularly from developing countries, is subject to approval by regional authorities, in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Economic Relations. Imports from former payments agreement coun- tries must be made in the manner prescribed in the relevant agreement and may be restricted according to the availability of remaining balances in the ap- propriate clearing account. Private persons who are Yugoslav nationals and hold foreign exchange accounts with Yugoslav banks may, in principle, use these funds to import goods for their own use or for the use of close relatives residing with them in accordance with rules governing citizens' right to import. Commer- cial banks are prohibited from making advance pay- ments for the importation of goods and services, and payments are required to be effected upon pre- sentation of customs documents or service invoices, certifying that the physical importation of the goods has been completed or services performed, except that advance payments of up to 30 percent of the total import value may be made in cases of semi- finished products for equipment manufacture or equipment and spare parts for investment projects ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 540 YUGOSLAVIA in cases where the final production process is longer than 30 days. A customs evidence tax of 1 percent, a tax equal- ization charge of 7.5 percent, and an import sur- charge of 7.5 percent are levied on all products that are not exempted from customs duty. Some agri- cultural products are subject to import levies. Re- turning resident travelers may bring in duty-free imports up to Din 200 a person. There are special facilities for full or partial exemption for payment of customs duties on certain imports by Yugoslav workers returning from abroad. Prepayment for imports is not permitted. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles related to imports are free of restrictions. All payments for other current account operations are subject to availability of for- eign exchange at the commercial banks. There is no special exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad. Yugoslav citizens are allowed to use balances from their foreign exchange accounts and foreign exchange savings deposits for tourist travel abroad subject to availability. However, the equiv- alent of not more than DM 1,000 a person may be taken abroad in the form of bank notes. The pur- chase of foreign exchange with dinars by resident nationals is temporarily limited to the following: expenses incurred in hospital treatment abroad; payments of court and other administrative fees; expenses for legal assistance abroad, and payments of traffic and other fines related to offenses com- mitted abroad; travel and moving expenses related to relocation; payments of membership fees in inter- national associations; and expenses related to trans- fers from abroad of the remains of deceased persons and to burial services and maintenance of burial sites abroad. Nonresident persons providing services in Yugoslavia may receive payments in dinars, which they may convert freely into foreign exchange and transfer abroad without restriction. Payments may also be received in foreign exchange and transferred abroad without restriction, provided that they are effected through the banking system. The exporta- tion of domestic bank notes is restricted to Din 1,200 a person a trip. Exports and Export Proceeds Foreign exchange earned through exports of goods and services and from other forms of eco- nomic cooperation with foreign countries is sold to commercial banks immediately upon repatriation at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of sale. In principle, exports are free of control. Certain raw materials that are in short supply in the domes- tic market and certain other materials, such as gun- powder, weapons, and narcotic drugs, require ex- port licenses. Unless specifically exempted, proceeds from ex- ports must be repatriated. The normal period of repatriation is 90 days from the date of exportation. All foreign exchange earnings must be sold to fully authorized banks immediately upon repatriation. Proceeds from exports on credit must be repatriated within the period of time stipulated under the credit agreement. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated within 90 days of the date on which the claim is payable. Exchange proceeds may be used for pay- ments abroad connected with the activities of the economic organization concerned, including pay- ments for purchases of equipment and other mate- rial for capital construction work abroad. The ex- change proceeds are transferable to Yugoslavia within 90 days of completion of work and must be sold to authorized banks. With specified exceptions, proceeds from services are subject to the same sur- render requirements and procedures as are those from exports of goods. Residents who have deposited their savings in foreign savings banks while employed abroad and have obtained a "bilingual savings book" that has been issued under specific arrangements between Yugoslavia and foreign banks may withdraw their balances in the form of foreign exchange when visit- ing Yugoslavia. Residents may hold interest- bearing foreign currency accounts in Yugoslavia, which may be credited with the full amount of their savings in foreign exchange. They may use these accounts for their personal needs and for those of their immediate families. The importation of domestic bank notes is re- stricted to Din 1,200 a person a trip. Capital Enterprises and other social legal persons may borrow abroad according to criteria established by the Law on Foreign Credit Relations of 1985 and the regulations issued under this law. Foreigners may invest in Yugoslav economic or- ganizations in the form of joint ventures and may also establish their own enterprises with ownership of up to 100 percent. There is no limit on the share of foreign investment in the organization's capital. Profit transfers are permitted in proportion to the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA 541 share of the foreign partner's contributions to the income. If the law governing joint ventures is amended, the legal provisions in force on the date of registration of a joint venture would continue to be applied during the entire life of the investment con- tract if the foreign investor so desires or, at the latter's option, more favorable provisions of the amended legislation could be applied. Foreign firms are permitted to establish representational offices in Yugoslavia. Economic organizations wishing to participate in foreign enterprises or to establish their own enter- prises abroad may be allowed to export the neces- sary capital under special conditions set by federal law; approval for such capital must be obtained from the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Economic Relations, under the procedure specified by existing legislation. Gold In 1968, the NBY issued certain commemorative gold coins, which are legal tender. Foreign travelers are freely permitted to import these coins, subject to customs declaration, and export them, subject to proof that they purchased them in Yugoslavia. Resi- dents who are private persons may hold gold coins in Yugoslavia but may not export them without the ap- proval of the NBY. These gold coins may be sold to any authorized bank, and residents may freely hold, purchase, and sell gold jewelry and other articles of gold according to the existing regulations on trade in goods and on control of articles made from precious metals. Domestic economic organizations that have been registered as traders in gold may import gold jewelry under the K import regime; they may freely export gold jewelry and other articles of gold. Au- thorized banks may freely export gold coins. Pro- ducers may export newly mined gold or sell it to specified users at home at the average price on international gold markets. Domestic sales of newly mined gold by producers may be made at a price that is equal to the average quotation in free gold markets abroad. Domestic economic organizations using gold for their normal activities may purchase gold from domestic producers or abroad on the basis of quotas allocated individually to each organization. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement January 1. The external value of the dinar was adjusted to Din 9 per DM 1. April 19. The external value of the dinar was ad- justed to Din 13 per DM 1. Imports and Import Payments July 4. Commercial banks were prohibited from making advance payments for the importation of goods and services, and payments were required to be effected upon presentation of customs docu- ments or service invoices, certifying that the physi- cal importation of the goods has been completed or services performed. The following exceptions, how- ever, would apply: advance payments of up to 30 percent of the total import value may be made in cases of semifinished products for equipment man- ufacture or equipment and spare parts for invest- ment projects, provided that the final production process in such cases is longer than 30 days. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Zaire is the Zaire. From 1983 until the exchange system was reformed in August 1991, the exchange rate was, in principle, determined by supply and demand forces in the interbank market in which interbank transactions and transactions between commercial banks and the Bank of Zaire (the central bank) took place. Transactions were conducted either between the Bank of Zaire and the commercial banks in weekly "fixing sessions/' which determined the official exchange rate (in U.S. dollar terms) or in "out-of-fixing sessions/' where trading took place at the rate agreed on be- tween the contracting parties. At these fixing ses- sions, the rate at which the largest buying bid was made was selected as the market-clearing rate, and interbank transactions and transactions between the commercial banks and their customers, though not legally required, normally took place at the market-clearing rate. This rate was regarded as the base rate for transactions conducted by commercial banks with their customers. In the week following the fixing session, the Bank of Zaire would publish the exchange rates for the various currencies against the zaire depending on their changes with respect to the SDR based on the SDR-zaire rate determined during the fixing session. The official exchange rate published daily by the Bank of Zaire was applied to all government operations, including debt-service payments and transactions of government-owned enterprises, and was used as a reference rate for customs duty assessments. In August 1991, the authorities introduced new legislation aimed at unifying the exchange rate. Un- der the new system, the external value of the zaire is determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions prevailing in the foreign exchange mar- ket, with the Bank of Zaire quoting the rate that prevailed in the market during the previous day. In addition to the Bank of Zaire, all commercial banks and financial institutions that have obtained the required license and have access to the clearing- house in Kinshasa are permitted to participate in the foreign exchange market. At the end of each day, all participating commercial banks and financial in- stitutions are required to determine the total value of purchase and sales transactions in Belgian francs, French francs, and U.S. dollars with customers and with other commercial banks and financial institu- tions; they must also determine the value in zaires of the transactions in each of the three currencies and report to the Bank of Zaire the calculated average effective buying and selling rates of the three cur- rencies, as well as the highest and lowest rates quoted in these transactions. The Bank of Zaire uses the information on transactions of the commercial banks and financial institutions to arrive at the aver- age effective exchange rate of the zaire against the U.S. dollar. This rate is used to determine the ex- change rate of the zaire for 22 other currencies and units on the basis of the rates between the U.S. dol- lar and the currencies concerned, which are pro- vided by the IMF.1 These rates are then used as indicative rates at the opening of trading on the day of their publications. Charges or commissions are not assessed on in- terbank market transactions. In their transactions with customers, commercial banks and financial institutions may charge an exchange commission not exceeding 1 percent. The spread between the buying and selling rates for foreign bank notes set by the commercial banks and financial institutions in the foreign exchange market must not exceed 5 percent. Forward transactions may be conducted in the foreign exchange market. Despite the unifica- tion of the foreign exchange market, informal ar- rangements under which exporters sold foreign ex- change to importers at freely negotiated exchange rates outside the free exchange market are still in operation. Administration of Control The Bank of Zaire has full regulatory authority over all foreign trade and payments, including dis- cretionary power to authorize residents to hold and use foreign exchange abroad and within Zaire. The Bank of Zaire may delegate this authority to certain bank or nonbank intermediaries. The Public Debt Management Office (OGEDEP), operating under the aegis of the Department of Finance, manages the medium- and long-term ex- ternal and domestic public and publicly guaranteed debt, is responsible for its servicing, and advises the Executive Council on external debt policy, including 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Burundi francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, European Currency Units, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, SDRs, South African rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 542 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE 543 terms and guarantees extended by the Government on loans contracted by public, semipublic, and pri- vate enterprises. In principle, no new external bor- rowing may be contracted or guaranteed by the Government without the prior advice of OGEDEP and the Bank of Zaire. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments from nonresidents to residents must be made in one of the listed convertible currencies whose rates are published daily by the Bank of Zaire (see footnote 1). Special authorization for the accep- tance of any other currency may be given only in respect of currencies that can be exchanged freely without a discount. Residents must make payments to nonresidents in one of the listed convertible cur- rencies or by crediting nonresident accounts in zaires or in foreign currency. Settlements with the member countries of the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries (CEPGL) (Burundi and Rwanda) and the member countries of the Communaute economique des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (CEEAC)2 are made through convertible accounts established under ar- rangements concluded by the Bank of Zaire with the central banks of the countries concerned. Bal- ances on these convertible accounts at the end of settlement periods, which is a quarter for CEPGL countries and a month for the CEEAC countries, are transferable into the currency stipulated by the creditor. Virtually all settlements (other than for re- exports) with member countries of the CEEAC are effected through the Central African Clearing House (Chambre de compensation de 1'Afrique Centrale) through its account with the Bank of Zaire. Nonresident Accounts There are four categories of nonresident ac- counts: nonresident foreign currency accounts (comptes de non-residents en devises), nonresident con- vertible accounts (comptes etrangers convertibles), nonresident ordinary accounts (comptes etrangers or- dinaires), and nonresident special accounts (comptes etrangers indisponibles). All nonresident accounts are maintained as sight deposits and may not show a debit balance. Nonresident foreign currency accounts, as well as nonresident convertible and special accounts, can 2Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Rwanda, and Sao Tome and Principe. be opened without the prior authorization of the Bank of Zaire at any authorized commercial bank. The opening of nonresident ordinary accounts re- quires the prior authorization of the Bank of Zaire. Such authorization is not required when accounts are opened for embassies and other diplomatic mis- sions (including those representing international and official multilateral organizations), and official civil and military cooperation programs. Nonresident foreign currency accounts may be cred- ited with foreign currency payments by residents or nonresidents in the following cases: (1) payments authorized by the Bank of Zaire; (2) transfers of foreign currencies from nonresident convertible ac- counts; (3) proceeds from arbitrage transactions; (4) inward transfers in foreign currencies from non- residents and from foreign exchange accounts held abroad; (5) payments in foreign currencies made by nonresidents; and (6) transfers in foreign currencies from other nonresident foreign currency accounts. Nonresident foreign currency accounts may be deb- ited freely for the following purposes: (1) payments authorized by the Bank of Zaire; (2) sales of foreign currency to any authorized bank against zaires; (3) arbitrage of foreign currencies against other for- eign currencies authorized by the Bank of Zaire; (4) outward transfers in foreign currencies; (5) transfers to other nonresident foreign currency accounts; (6) withdrawals of bank notes or traveler's checks by the holder of such accounts; and (7) banking commissions and fees. Nonresident convertible accounts may be credited with (1) transfers of means of payment in foreign currency at a bank or authorized financial institu- tions; (2) transfers from other nonresident convert- ible accounts as well as from resident foreign cur- rency accounts; and (3) payments by authorized commercial banks in connection with operations for which the Bank of Zaire authorizes those banks either to credit nonresident convertible accounts or to deliver foreign currency as stipulated by the ex- change regulation. These accounts may be freely debited for (I) payments to residents for operations other than exports of goods and services; (2) pur- chases in the foreign exchange market of foreign currencies or any other means of payment for travel expenses abroad; (3) transfers to other nonresident convertible accounts and purchases of bank notes or any other means of payment in zaires at any autho- rized commercial bank; and (4) banking commis- sions and fees. Nonresident ordinary accounts may be credited with (1) sales of foreign exchange against zaires, received as down payments or transferred from abroad; (2) transfers in zaires from nonresident convertible ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 544 ZAIRE accounts; and (3) receipts in zaires from residents on account of services rendered in Zaire, property rentals, transportation fares, consular and chancery fees, and other services as specified by the Bank of Zaire at the time such accounts are opened. Non- resident ordinary accounts may be debited for (1) payments in zaires to residents on account of local purchases of goods and services, dues, taxes, and banking commissions and fees; (2) transfers to other nonresident ordinary accounts of the same holder; and (3) withdrawals of bank notes or any other means of payment in zaires. In addition, as- sets held in nonresident ordinary accounts are not transferable abroad, nor can they be transferred to nonresident convertible accounts. Nonresident special accounts can be opened for nonresidents entitled to receive specified pay- ments on account of (1) sale or rent f rom real estate properties and other fixed capital located in Zaire and owned by nonresidents; and (2) sale of businesses and goodwill, as well as shares in agri- cultural, commercial, industrial, and service com- panies located in Zaire and owned by nonresi- dents. In addition, all assets denominated in zaires and owned by non-Zairian residents per- manen t ly leaving Zaire must be deposited in or t rans fe r red to a nonresident special account opened on behalf of or under the name of the respective persons. The same requirements apply to proceeds from the sale of real estate or the rental of fixed capital owned by non-Zairian resi- dents who subsequently become nonresidents. Accounts under this category can be debited only for (1) travel expenses incurred by the holders of such accounts; (2) t rans fe rs to religious organiza- tions or any nonprofit cultural, philanthropic, or social organizations; (3) banking commissions and fees; (4) local taxes payable to the Central Govern- ment of Zaire; (5) insurance and maintenance fees of fixed capital (including real estate properties); and (6) any other payment authorized by the Bank of Zaire. Resident foreign exchange accounts. Residents are permitted to open foreign exchange accounts at lo- cal commercial banks. These accounts may be cred- ited with funds arising from capital transactions; they may also be credited with receipts from exports of goods, services, and the prefinancing of such exports within the limits established by the Bank of Zaire. These accounts may be sight or term ac- counts, may bear interest, and may be denominated in any currency for which the Bank of Zaire pub- lishes exchange rates. Overdrafts on these accounts are not permitted. Deposits in these accounts may be used to meet virtually any foreign exchange obli- gation, including import payments, and funds may be transferred from one foreign exchange account to another opened in the name of the same holder, with the exception of accounts opened by artisanal diamond and gold marketing agencies. Existing reg- ulatory and administrative provisions relating to imports apply to imports financed from these ac- counts. Anyone permitted to make import pay- ments through this method (using Form I) may do so by debiting these accounts. Authorized banks may pay royalties, merchandise transport costs, ser- vices, and capital retransfer to nonresidents out of these accounts on the instruction of the account holders, who provide the supporting documents required under the exchange regulations. For ac- count holders with the requisite supporting docu- mentation, Form V is not required for withdrawals to cover travel or living expenses abroad, medical expenses incurred or that will be incurred abroad, educational or training expenses incurred or that will be incurred abroad, and tickets for international travel. Imports and Import Payments Certain imports, including arms, explosives and ammunition, narcotics, materials contrary to public morals, and certain alcoholic beverages, are pro- hibited or require special authorization from the Government. Most other imports are subject only to an import declaration at the authorized banks. In general, import declarations remain valid for 12 months; if an importer wishes to extend the validity period, he must so indicate in the import docu- ments accompanying the import declaration. The validity may be extended for the first time by the authorized banks if shipment has begun; if ship- ment has not begun, extension of the validity period requires authorization from the Bank of Zaire. Im- ports of goods intended for expansion of capital base or for the importer's own use may be effected without a declaration to an authorized bank, pro- vided that the value does not exceed SDR 1,000 per tariff item and SDR 5,000 per shipment, and that the shipments are financed from the importer's own resources. All goods shipped by sea to Zaire must be trans- ported on vessels belonging to shipowners that are bonded with the Office zairois de gestion des frets maritimes (OGEFREM) and whose freight charges have been negotiated with that office. Payments for imports may be made either upon arrival or upon shipment (including payments up to 30 days from date of shipment). Banks may pay freight charges only upon presentation of invoices ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE 545 from the carriers or their agents. The mode of pay- ment must be indicated on all import declaration forms. Authorized banks are allowed to pay trans- portation and insurance costs in foreign currency only on imports for which they provide financing on an f .o .b. basis. With a few exceptions, imports are subjected to a preshipment inspection. The amount, the invoice price, and the quality of im- ports must be verified and found acceptable by the foreign agents of the Zairian Control Office (OZAC); however, in special cases, verification may be effected upon arrival, subject to a waiver from the Bank of Zaire. Verification certificates are not re- quired for import values ( f .o .b .) of SDR 1,000 or less per tariff item, or of SDR 5,000 or less per shipment. Prior approval from the Bank of Zaire is required for (1) imports in the form of foreign contributions to capital intended for resale; (2) imports financed by suppliers' credits or other interest-bearing foreign financing with a maturity of more than one year, except imports contracted or guaranteed by the Government; (3) imports requiring a down payment in foreign currency before shipment; and (4) im- ports requiring special authorization from the Gov- ernment and imports of currency, coins, and articles imitating or bearing the monetary symbols of Zairian currency. The customs tariff rates range from 15 percent to 50 percent, with a special rate of 5 percent for certain equipment. The rate of the turnover tax ranges from zero to 20 percent. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles must be made through an authorized bank. When the approval of the Bank of Zaire is required, it must be requested by the authorized banks concerned. The Bank of Zaire will not authorize the payment in foreign ex- change of commissions in favor of shippers or pur- chasing agents. Zairian freight must be handled exclusively by bonded shipowners whose freight charges have been authorized in advance by the OGEFREM. Other payments relating to services performed by nonresidents are, in principle, permitted. How- ever, outward remittances of salaries of expatriate employees are limited to the levels authorized dur- ing the preceding year. The transfer abroad of sal- aries of newly hired expatriates is limited to 50 per- cent of net salary, provided that the nontransferable amount is sufficient to meet local needs. Transfers pertaining to certain administrative expenses that firms incur abroad, interest on private loans, and payment of certain portions of insurance premiums are generally permitted. Transfers of net profits of firms with foreign participation are authorized. Transfers of rental income received by nonresidents and residents who are foreign nationals are sus- pended. Payments for commissions, brokerage charges and miscellaneous fees, and royalties may be authorized in some cases. Tickets for travel abroad may be purchased in zaires or in foreign currency for trips starting in Zaire. Zairian nationals traveling abroad may buy foreign exchange from banks or authorized finan- cial institutions. Residents who are foreign na- tionals and who are entitled to transfer part of their income abroad are not allowed to obtain foreign currency from authorized banks to pay for their tickets for international travel and their living ex- penses abroad involving private travel. For trips to Burundi and Rwanda, tourists and households re- siding in the border area are entitled to purchase once a month the equivalent of SDR 100 in Burundi or Rwanda francs. The exportation of Zairian bank notes and coins by residents and nonresidents is permitted only up to the equivalent of $100. However, the exportation of Zairian bank notes and coins by travelers from Burundi and Rwanda is authorized within the limits of the agreements between the members of the CEPGL. Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters must file an exchange document (dec- laration of foreign exchange commitment), which banks are normally authorized to validate, for all exports. These declarations must specify the type of merchandise to be exported, price, and currency in which payment is to be received. Declarations of foreign exchange commitment are normally valid for 90 days. Exports must be carried out and pro- ceeds must be received and surrendered within this period, which must not exceed 45 days from the date of shipping. Exporters are authorized to receive the following in their resident foreign currency (RME) accounts at authorized banks: (1) at least 35 percent of their revenue generated by exports other than proceeds from prefinancing, to the extent that repatriation occurs within the legally required period of 45 days from the date of shipment; and (2) 100 percent of funds received as prefinancing for products in- tended for exportation. The corresponding ratios for others are as follows: with the exception of companies that benefit from special waivers from the Bank of Zaire, including Generate des carrieres et des mines du Zaire, 45 per- cent; Societe de developpement industriel et minier ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 546 ZAIRE du Zaire, 50 percent; and Societe miniere de Bak- wanga, 20 percent. The Bank of Zaire may authorize the holding abroad of a portion of earnings from exports. The exportation, turnover, and statistical taxes on coffee exports have been suspended. Economic transactors may export coffee, subject to inspection and quality certificates issued respectively by the OZAC and the Zairian Office for Coffee (OZACAF). As in the case of other export products, coffee may be exported under prefinancing contracts. Artisanal gold and diamonds may be exported only through authorized marketing agencies (comp- toirs agrees). The Bank of Zaire purchases and exports gold on its own account, along with the authorized market- ing agencies in the market. Industrial diamonds and gold may be exported directly by the mining com- panies involved. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated and transferred through authorized banks. For some operations, proceeds may be credited to an RME account. An unlimited amount of bank notes and other means of payment in foreign currency may be brought into the country. The importation of Zairian bank notes and coins is permitted only up to the equivalent of $100. Capital The repatriation of foreign capital brought in under the provisions of the Investment Code is permitted only at the time of liquidation, nationalization, or par- tial or total transfers of shares. Borrowed capital and equity contributions are authorized. Transfers abroad of such contributions made under the Investment Code are guaranteed. The Bank of Zaire also guaran- tees transfers abroad of interest, dividends, and profits in respect of foreign capital covered under the provisions of the Investment Code. Gold Only Zairian nationals are allowed to purchase, transport, sell, or hold gold within Zaire, outside the boundaries of areas covered by exclusive mining concessions. Foreign individuals or corporate per- sons and corporate persons under Zairian law may do so only on behalf of and for account of authorized marketing agencies. Exports of gold and diamonds by authorized marketing agencies do not require prior authorization from the Bank of Zaire. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement August 19. The official and the parallel market exchange rates were unified. Commercial banks and other financial intermediaries were allowed to buy and sell foreign exchange at freely negotiated rates. The official exchange rate, published daily by the Bank of Zaire, would be the average effective exchange rate at which transactions were effected on the previous day. This measure was accom- panied by laws permitting the operations of bureaux de change agrees, which may buy and sell foreign exchange alongside commercial banks that are al- ready permitted to do so. These bureaux de change agrees must open accounts with approved commer- cial banks, and foreign exchange in excess of $50,000 held by individuals or $100,000 held by cor- porations in these accounts for more than five work- ing days must be exchanged for zaires. Cash hold- ings in foreign exchange by bureaux de change agrees may not exceed $10,000 for individuals or $50,000 for corporations. Payments for Invisibles August 19. The exportation of Zairian bank notes and coins by residents and nonresidents was per- mitted only up to the equivalent of $100 without the authorization of the Bank of Zaire; however, the exportation of Zairian bank notes by travelers from Burundi and Rwanda was permitted within the limits of the agreements concluded between the members of the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries. Resident and nonresident trav- elers leaving the country were permitted to have in their possession an unlimited amount of foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds June 18. Marketing agencies are authorized to make purchases from artisanal diamond and gold traders in domestic or foreign currency. Payment in foreign currency may be made in cash depending on the availability of funds at the banks or marketing agencies, or by crediting traders' RME accounts. Marketing agencies' RME accounts may be debited for the amounts transferred on their order to RME accounts held by traders or others. Proceeds from Invisibles August 19. The importation of Zairian bank notes and coins by residents and nonresidents was per- mitted only up to the equivalent of $100 without the authorization of the Bank of Zaire. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Zambia is the Zambian Kwacha. On April 23, 1991, the dual exchange system was unified through the elimination of the official ex- change rate (OER) (which had been applicable to foreign exchange surrendered and payments made by the state mining company (ZCCM), and to imports of oil and fertilizer), and through the shifting of those transactions to the market exchange rate (MER). The MER is fixed in terms of the SDR, and its rate against the intervention currency, the U.S. dollar, is adjusted frequently to reflect demand and supply conditions. During 1991, it was changed on several occasions, from K 47.4 per US$1 on December 30,1990 to K 90.2 per US$1 on December 30, 1991. Exporters are also authorized to sell foreign exchange entitlements re- ceived under the export retention scheme to im- porters at freely negotiated rates. On December 31, 1991, the rate at which these transactions took place was about K 120 per US$1. The Bank of Zambia deals with the Government and with authorized banks in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, and other convertible currencies. Authorized banks are free to deal in other currencies at rates based on daily rates provided by the Bank of Zambia, or on the basis of cross rates with the U.S. dollar prevailing in international foreign exchange markets. In its dealings with the commercial banks, the Bank of Zambia applies a margin of 0.5 percent for purchases and 1.5 percent for sales of foreign exchange. Autho- rized banks are permitted to charge an additional 1 percent on either side for transactions by telegraphic transfers, and 1.25 percent for sales and purchases of foreign currency notes when quoting their rates to customers. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the offi- cial or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Zambia under powers delegated to it by the Minis- ter of Finance. The control of trade is the responsi- bility of the Ministry of Commerce. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Zambia to residents of other countries may be made in any foreign cur- rency. Payments from residents of other countries may be received in pounds sterling or in Zambian currency from an external account, or in any foreign currency freely exchangeable for U.S. dollars or pounds sterling. External Accounts Accounts in Zambian currency held with autho- rized banks by foreign embassies/missions, diplo- mats, and expatriate staff of the United Nations and similar international organizations are designated external accounts. Authorized banks are required to obtain prior permission from the exchange control authorities before opening a new external account. Only funds originating from abroad can be credited to those accounts. Balances in external accounts may be transferred abroad or withdrawn for use in Zambia without exchange control permission. Blocked accounts in Zambian currency held with authorized dealers in foreign exchange by residents of any country other than Zambia are credited with nontransferable capital sums in Zambian currency. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, except that the accounts of emigrants may be deb- ited each year for the permitted anniversary al- lowance for remittance to the country of residence of the account holder. The interest on blocked ac- count balances is freely transferable to the account holder's country of residence. Nonresident Zambians and resident Zambians who work for international organizations and earn foreign currencies may open foreign currency ac- counts with commercial banks, subject to prior ap- proval from the Bank of Zambia. Imports and Import Payments Imports may be effected under the open general license (OGL) system at the MER on the basis of a positive list, which covers about 90 percent of mer- chandise imports. Goods can also be imported un- der the export retention scheme on the basis of a short negative list. All merchandise imports, other than a few specified products that are prohibited for reasons of health, safety, or public policy, may be effected using foreign exchange that has not been obtained from official sources or export retention; such "no funds" imports do not require an import license. Imports of personal and household effects, 547 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 548 ZAMBIA samples, diplomatic shipments, and means of transportation entering Zambia temporarily also re- quire no import license. Payments for imports for which foreign exchange is requested at the MER must be made by documen- tary irrevocable letters of credit. For imports of goods valued up to $50,000, the importer must sub- mit one invoice price quotation; for imports valued between $50,000 and $500,000, the importer is re- quired to provide three separate invoice quotations, and for those exceeding $500,000 in value, the im- porter must provide evidence that he has attempted to obtain the most competitive price through Inter- national Competitive Bidding. The Bank of Zambia does not approve payments for imports unless a satisfactory report regarding preshipment inspec- tion is issued by international agencies. All imports that are settled with official foreign exchange are subject to preshipment inspection by international agencies, except where the f .o .b. value of each im- port consignment is less than $10,000. The commercial banks are required to submit to the Bank of Zambia a weekly return on letters of credit opened, with specific information. Payments for Invisibles Payments in foreign exchange for invisibles, in- cluding freight and other related charges on im- ports, require the approval of the Bank of Zambia. The basic allowance for business travel is $225 a person a day for up to 14 days a calendar year; foreign exchange for this purpose must have the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Foreign exchange allowances for tourist travel are not granted. Travel allowances of $50 a trip are granted to children returning to schools overseas. Allowances for education and medical treatment abroad are granted by the Bank of Zambia on a case- by-case basis. Remittances abroad for advertising, manage- ment, accounting, administrative, engineering, and consulting services rendered to residents by nonresidents require prior approval from the Bank of Zambia. Dividends earned on the nonresidents' share in paid-up equity capital that has been in- vested since 1989 may be transferred, up to 20 per- cent of capital or 50 percent of net profits attribut- able to such capital, whichever is smaller. Expatriate farmers are permitted to remit 12.5 percent of their after-tax profits; a fur ther 10 percent may be held to their credit every year for eventual remittance upon departure from Zambia. Foreign nationals working on contract in Zambia may generally remit up to the equivalent of $4,260 a year in monthly installments as an "inducement allowance." The Bank of Zambia permits higher inducement allowances in individual cases depend- ing upon the position held by the expatriate and his/ her professional experience and expertise. In addi- tion, expatriates may remit gratuity of up to 25 per- cent of the inducement allowance. Payments to ex- patriates employed by ZCCM are made from its own allocations of foreign exchange and are not subject to the above limitation, whereas all other inducement payments must be made from the working balances of commercial banks. Foreign na- tionals availing themselves of these arrangements are not entitled to the regular allowances for travel, education, and maintenance; their salary on ac- cumulated leave, gratuity, and other terminal bene- fits are transferable only on completion of the con- tract period as part of their emigration allowance. Travelers leaving Zambia may take out a maximum of K 100 in Zambian currency. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports, unless the goods represent a genuine personal gift and their value does not exceed K100, must be declared on the prescribed export declara- tion form and require a license. For most goods, export licenses are issued by the exporter's bank or the Bank of Zambia, under the authority of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Exports of four products —white maize, fertilizers, petroleum products, and ivory—are controlled or prohibited. Export proceeds in foreign currency appropriate to the country of destination must be surrendered to the Bank of Zambia; ZCCM credits its export pro- ceeds to a Bank of Zambia account abroad upon receipt, and foreign exchange that is judged neces- sary to meet its own foreign exchange needs is allo- cated from that account. Generally, exports are required to be financed through irrevocable letters of credit or advance pay- ments. Prior approval from the Bank of Zambia is necessary for all exports whose methods of pay- ment are different from those mentioned above. As an export incentive, up to 50 percent of nontradi- tional export proceeds may be used by the exporter for the purchase of imports and to make certain service and debt payments. However, all such ex- port receipts must be surrendered in full to the Bank of Zambia by commercial banks in one of the follow- ing five currencies: U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, deutsche mark, French francs, or South African rand. Exporters are required to apply to the Bank of Zambia for reallocation of these receipts for their external financing requirements within a six-month period. If balances have not been used at the end of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA 549 the six months, they are automatically converted into kwacha at the original exchange rate. Nonnational agricultural producers are eligible for certain incentives in the form of foreign ex- change, on the basis of every standard bag of maize, wheat, rice, barley, soybean, or tobacco sold by them in excess of a prescribed number of bags. Corresponding foreign exchange incentives for na- tional agricultural producers are made available on application to the exchange control authorities when the incentive is intended for the importation of agricultural inputs. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. There is no limit on the amount of foreign currency notes that travelers may import, except that travelers from Zaire are allowed to import only up to the equivalent of K 20. Travelers arriving in Zambia may bring in a maximum of K 100 in Zambian currency. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted. However, all borrowings outside Zambia require the approval of the exchange control authorities. Out- ward transfers of capital are controlled, but nonresi- dents are normally permitted to repatriate their in- vestments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original investment was made with funds brought into the country f rom sources outside Zam- bia. The repatriation is generally spread over more than three years. Local borrowing by companies controlled either directly or indirectly from outside Zambia is restricted to a debt/equity ratio of 1 to 1 in the case of manufacturing companies and 1 to 3 in the case of others. However, there is no such limit when borrowings are intended for agricultural op- erations. Prior approval from the Bank of Zambia is required for borrowings in excess of the above limits. Emigrants are granted foreign exchange as follows: (1) settling-in allowance equivalent to K 25,000 for a single person, K 35,000 for a married couple, K 50,000 for persons aged 50 years and over, and K 2,000 for a child up to a maximum of four children; and (2) anni- versary allowance equivalent to K 15,000 for a single person, K 25,000 for a married couple, and K 35,500 for persons aged 50 years and over. In addition, there are special facilities for expatriate farmers for the transfer of profits up to certain limits (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Zam- bia for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange control approval. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement April 23. The "first window" official exchange rate (OER), which had been applicable to surrendered for- eign exchange, to payments made by the state mining company (ZCCM), and to imports of oil and fertilizer, was abolished; these transactions were shifted to the "second windowr" market exchange rate (MER). July 1. The administration of foreign exchange entitlements provided under the export retention scheme was shifted from the Bank of Zambia to the commercial banks. Imports and Import Payments April 16. The Bank of Zambia published a nega- tive list of goods that could not be imported under the export retention and "no funds" import schemes. For the export retention scheme, the list included categories equivalent to about 5 percent of merchandise imports; the negative list for "no funds" imports comprised gold, silver, platinum, jewelry, weapons, and guns and ammunition. April 23. The coverage of the open general license (OGL) system was expanded to include import cate- gories equivalent to about 90 percent of merchan- dise imports. August 1. The threshold value above which "no funds" imports are subject to preshipment inspec- tion was reduced to $10,000 from $15,000. Exports and Export Proceeds March 16. The list of controlled or prohibited exports was reduced from 48 products to 4 products—white maize, fertilizers, petroleum products, and ivory. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE (Position on December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Zimbabwe is the Zimbabwe Dol- lar. The exchange rate of the Zimbabwe dollar is determined on the basis of a trade-weighted basket of currencies. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency. The spread applied by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe between the buying and selling rates is 0.8 percent for all currencies. Authorized dealers (authorized commercial and merchant banks) may charge an additional 0.25 percent on either side of the quoted rates of major currencies. The autho- rized dealers base their rates for other currencies on current international market rates. On Decem- ber 31, 1991, the buying and selling rates were US$0.1988 and US$0.1972, respectively, per Z$l. A tax of 20 percent is levied on sales of foreign ex- change for purposes of holiday travel. Forward exchange contracts are permitted only for trade transactions. There is no limit on the amount of such contracts, but they must be limited to periods of six to eight months, depending on currencies involved and types of coverage. The Re- serve Bank of Zimbabwe is prepared to cover for- ward transactions and, at present, quotes fixed dis- count and/or premium rates for major currencies. The Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe purchases forward foreign exchange at the spot preferential telex trans- fer rate quoted to authorized dealers, less 0.50 per- cent for three-month contracts, 3 percent for one year, and an additional 3 percent for each year beyond one year, up to 15 percent for a five-year contract. Forward sales of foreign exchange take place at the spot preferential telex transfer rate plus a premium loading for six months, depending on currencies involved and type of coverage. Autho- rized dealers are expected to quote to their customers their own telex transfer rates (sight rates plus or minus the margins applied by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe). Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe, under powers delegated to it by the Minister of Finance, Economic Planning, and Development under the Exchange Control Act, Chapter 170, and the Exchange Control Regulations of 1977. Authorized dealers have been empowered to approve certain foreign exchange transactions in accordance with Exchange Control Instructions Is- sued to Authorized Dealers (July 1, 1981, as amended) and Exchange Control Circulars, issued periodically. Import and export controls are admin- istered in accordance with the Control of Goods (importation and exportation) (agriculture) Regula- tions of 1965, as amended; the Control of Goods (importation and exportation) (commerce) Regula- tions of 1974, as amended; the Control of Goods (exportation of minerals and metals) Order of 1979; the Control of Goods (open general import license) Notice of 1979; and the Control of Goods (open general export license) Notice of 1977. Prescription of Currency All payments by nonresidents to residents must be effec ted in denominated currencies,1 with the exception of payments otherwise specified or effec ted through nonresident accounts. Under the Clearing House Agreement, which went into effect on February 1, 1984, within the Preferential Trade Area for Eastern and Southern African States (PTA), residents of member countries can use na- tional currencies in day-to-day payments during a transaction period of two calendar months; the monetary authorities settle net balances at the end of this period in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may be opened with the approval of the exchange control authorities by per- sons who have never been residents of Zimbabwe. Nonresident accounts may be credited with foreign currencies, with payments from other nonresident accounts, or with payments by residents that would be eligible for transfer outside Zimbabwe. Nonresi- dent accounts may be debited for payments to resi- dents, for payments to other nonresident accounts, or for payments abroad. Only former residents now residing outside Zimbabwe may maintain emi- grants' accounts in Zimbabwe. Cash assets held in Zimbabwe in the names of emigrants must be blocked in these accounts, and all payments to and 1 There are 17 denominated currencies that are freely convert- ible through authorized dealers: Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, South Afri- can rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 550 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE 551 from these accounts are subject to various exchange restrictions. Imports and Import Payments With the exception of products covered by the open general import license (OGIL), all imports are subject to licensing requirements.2 Import licenses are issued only against a certificate of foreign ex- change allocation. Global foreign exchange alloca- tions are decided by an Interministerial Committee chaired by the Ministry of Finance, Economic Plan- ning, and Development, and are allocated to indi- vidual users by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. Imports in the commercial category include im- ports by merchants of raw materials, machinery, and spare parts for resale to manufacturers and the public sector, as well as consumer goods; those in the industrial category consist of direct importation by industrialists of raw materials, machinery, and spare parts. For purposes of allocating commercial imports, individual products are classified into five categories in accordance with the degree of essen- tiality. (In the manufacturing sector, because of em- ployment considerations, similar priority ratings are not so strictly applied.) Foreign exchange is allo- cated to individual commercial importers for single tariff items (with facilities for a limited degree of transferability between items), whereas foreign ex- change allocated to manufac turers is for a group of tariff items appropriate to the industrial division concerned. Manufacturers receive from the Ministry of In- dustry and Commerce separate allocations for raw materials required for production for the local and export markets; the former is assessed on the basis of priority and foreign exchange availability, and the latter is in the form of initial allocations based on past performance, with a possible additional alloca- tion from an Export-Revolving Fund against proof of exports. Industrial exporters may also receive a sup- plementary allocation, determined on the basis of their incremental export performance, to import raw materials to be used in production for the do- mestic market. Export-oriented mining and agri- cultural firms may obtain supplemental allocations under the Export Promotion Program.3 In addition, under the Export Retention Scheme, all exporting firms are entitled to retain part of their foreign ex- 2In 1991, the OGIL system consisted of a restricted (end-user- specific) list of goods covering about 10 percent of imports and an unrestricted list of goods covering about 15 percent of imports. 3This supplementary allocation ceased to be provided as of January 1, 1992. change earnings. With effect from December 31, 1991, the Export Retention Scheme has been ex- panded. The retention ratio has been increased to 15 percent of export earnings (applicable to exports during July-December 1991) from 5-7.5 percent, varying among d ifferent sectors. The retained for- eign exchange may be used for any merchandise imports, except for a small number of items on the negative list (previously, only imports of inputs for the exporter's own production were allowed), and the imported goods are allowed to be sold without restriction. In addition, the interval of access to the retained foreign exchange has been changed from a semiannual to a quarterly basis. Import licenses have to be drawn against foreign exchange allocation certificates at the time orders are placed. The normal validity of import licenses is 12 months from the end of the month of issue, but this period can be extended in certain circum- stances. Import licenses are normally issued with- out geographical restriction, and importers are free to choose the country of supply. Licenses are issued on an f .o .b. basis and do not, therefore, cover the invisibles element of the transactions. Imports of certain goods (mostly agricultural and processed food products) require a special permit issued by the Ministry of Agriculture. Certain agri- cultural products (coffee, maize, sorghum, soy- beans, and wheat) may be imported only by the Grain Marketing and Cotton Marketing Boards or by others with the permission of the Boards. No quotas are in force, but seasonal restrictions are applied to certain agricultural products. Authorized dealers may approve applications to e f fect payments for authorized imports, provided the necessary documentation (including the details of import licenses or open general licenses) is sub- mitted. Payments for imports into Zimbabwe from all countries may be made in Zimbabwean currency to a local nonresident account or in any foreign currency. The customs duty regime consists mainly of ad valorem duties, which range up to 35 percent of the c . i . f. value, and specific duties on a number of prod- ucts. Generally, imports are subject to an additional tax of between 12Vz percent and 20 percent, equiv- alent to the sales taxes imposed at the same rates on goods sold domestically. Most imports are subject to a surtax of 20 percent. Payments for Invisibles Foreign exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports and, within certain limits for other pur- poses, is provided by commercial banks under dele- gated authority. Applications for foreign exchange ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 552 ZIMBABWE exceeding the limit established for commercial banks are approved by the Reserve Bank of Zim- babwe, which deals with each case on its merits. In principle, foreign investors are allowed to remit between 50 percent and 100 percent of after-tax profits on investments subject to certain conditions. The following regulations apply to the export sector: (1) a wholly foreign-owned company that meets the criteria to qualify as an export firm and funds its projects through a combination of foreign ex- change, "switched blocked funds /' and surplus funds is permitted to remit the declared dividends from net after-tax profits on a basis proportionate to the level of foreign exchange invested, limited to a maximum of 50 percent for five years from the be- ginning of operations, af ter which the company will qualify for 100 percent remittance of dividends (blocked and surplus funds are assets held by for- eigners as a result of the limited remittance of divi- dends; switched blocked funds are blocked funds that have been purchased by a foreigner from the original owner); (2) a wholly foreign-owned com- pany with its own blocked funds is permitted to repatriate 100 percent of its declared dividends, provided that all of its foreign exchange require- ments are met from external sources; and (3) in the case of a new joint venture with at least 30 percent local participation that meets the criteria to qualify as an export firm, the foreign partner is allowed to remit 100 percent of its share of declared dividends, provided that it meets its share of foreign exchange requirements from external sources. The following regulations apply to investments in the mining sector: (1) a wholly foreign-owned com- pany that funds its projects through foreign funds is allowed to repatriate 100 percent of its net after- tax profits, provided that it qualifies as an export- oriented project; (2) a wholly foreign-owned com- pany that funds its projects through a combination of foreign funds and either its own blocked funds, switched blocked funds, or surplus funds, subject to a minimum matching formula of 50/50, is allowed to remit dividends up to 50 percent in proportion to the matching ratio; and (3) the level of dividend remittance for joint ventures subject to the mini- mum 30 percent local participation criterion is also determined by the matching formula used by the foreign shareholder. Af ter five years, the company can remit 100 percent of its dividends to the foreign shareholder. The basic foreign exchange allowance for holiday travel is Z$800 for a 12-month period. (Children under 10 years are entitled to one half of this amount .) The allowance may be accumulated up to three years but is not granted in advance. The basic foreign exchange allowance for import-related busi- ness travel is Z$600 a day, up to a maximum of Z$6,000 a trip, with an overall annual maximum of Z$12,000; for export-related business travel, the ex- change allowance is Z$700 a day, up to a maximum of Z$8,000 a trip, and Z$16,000 a year. The above- mentioned limits for business travel are the amounts that authorized dealers can provide; ap- plications for business travel allowance exceeding the specified limits are subject to the approval of the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe and are treated favora- bly, especially those for export-related trips. Foreign exchange is provided for education abroad beyond the secondary school level for cer- tain diploma and degree courses. All applications for educational allowances must be submitted to the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe for approval. For medi- cal treatment, foreign exchange is provided up to Z$100 a day for a maximum of 30 days for the patient and any necessary accompanying companion. Ap- plications for additional amounts must be submit- ted to the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe for approval. Remittances of up to Z$500 for subscriptions to learned or technical societies, and Z$100 for other societies are allowed; the limit for an initial member- ship fee is Z$250. Remittances to close relatives per- manently resident outside Zimbabwe, not exceed- ing Z$100 a month for each individual beneficiary and Z$200 a month for each family unit, are permit- ted with the approval of the Reserve Bank of Zim- babwe. Outward remittances in respect of fees for technical, administrative, management, and con- sultancy services, or to defray external expenses of local branches are subject to a tax of 20 percent. Applications for emigrant status must be submit- ted to the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe. Beginning March 27, 1984, the settling-in allowance that emi- grants may remit abroad is limited to Z$l,000 a family unit. In exceptional and deserving cases, the exchange control authorities will consider applica- tions exceeding this maximum. Beginning April 1, 1984, all those applying for emigrant status have been required to take steps to liquidate their assets within six months and to invest the total proceeds, less any settling-in allowance granted, in 4 percent, 12-year Government of Zimbabwe external bonds. If emigrants are unable to comply with the six-month limit, the matter may be referred to the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe. Transferable allowances at the time of emigration are as follows: (1) single persons under the age of 40 years, Z$500; (2) single persons aged 40-59 years, Z$l,000; (3) family units and sin- gle persons (under 60 years of age) with depen- dents, Z$l,000; (4) family units (husband over 60 years of age) and single persons over 60, Z$7,000; ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE 553 (5) persons over 80 years of age, Z$10,000; and (6) handicapped or disabled persons, Z$10,000. A fur ther release of capital was authorized as an an- nual allowance on each anniversary date of the emi- grant's departure, as follows: persons over 65 years of age, Z$2,000; and persons over 70 years of age, Z$3,000. Travelers leaving Zimbabwe may take out, as part of their travel allowance, not more than Z$150 in Zimbabwean currency together with a maximum of the equivalent of Z$150 in foreign bank notes. Non- resident travelers may take out the traveler's checks they brought in, less the amount they sold to autho- rized dealers. Upon departure from Zimbabwe, nonresident travelers may reconvert unspent Zim- babwean currency into foreign currencies on pre- sentation of exchange certificates. All nonresident travelers are required to pay an airport tax of US$10 on departure. Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters must have licenses to export the follow- ing: (1) any ore, concentrate, or other manufactured product of chrome, copper, lithium, nickel, tin, or tungsten; (2) petroleum products; (3) ju te and hes- sian bags; (4) road or rail tankers for carrying liquids or semiliquids; (5) bitumen, asphalt, and tar; (6) wild animals and wild animal products; (7) cer- tain wood products; (8) ammonium nitrate; and (9) implements of war. In addition to security and social reasons, export-licensing requirements are intended to ensure an adequate domestic supply of essential products. Goods may not be exported without permission, unless the customs authorities are satisfied that payment has been made in an approved manner or will be made within three months of the date of shipment or such longer period as may be permitted by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe. Payments for exports must be received in one of the following ways: (1) in a denominated currency; (2) in Zimbab- wean currency from a nonresident account; and (3) in the case of Malawi and Botswana, by checks drawn in Malawi kwacha or Botswana pula, respec- tively. Under the PTA arrangement (see section on Prescription of Currency, above), member countries can use national currencies in the settlement of pay- ments during a transaction period of two months, with net balances at the end of this period to be settled in convertible currencies. Exports to some f if ty countries are approved only upon advance pay- ment of export proceeds or if payment is covered by an irrevocable letter of credit issued or confirmed before exportation by a reputable overseas bank. Export receipts must be sold to authorized dealers. Since August 1, 1984, an export subsidy at the rate of 9 percent of the f .o.b. value has been granted on specified exports of manufac tured products with a minimum domestic value added of 25 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold to autho- rized banks within a reasonable time. Residents performing professional services abroad are not permitted to retain any part of their foreign ex- change earnings, and must sell such earnings to an authorized bank. Foreign currency and traveler's checks may be imported without restriction but must be sold or exchanged in Zimbabwe only through authorized dealers. A traveler may bring in Zimbabwean currency up to a maximum of Z$150. Capital Inward transfers of capital through normal bank- ing channels are not restricted. Outward transfers of capital are controlled. How- ever, all foreign investments, irrespective of their source, that have been undertaken through normal banking channels since September 1, 1979 may be considered for repatriation a f ter two years, pro- vided that the amount to be repatriated will be reduced by any profits remitted in the interim. Where such authority is granted, the balance may be transferred only through the established me- dium of six-year external government bonds bear- ing interest at the rate of 4 percent a year. The repatriation of capital invested before Sep- tember 1, 1979 is prohibited; however, shareholders are allowed within limits to apply to the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe for the remittance of such capital upon the sale of shares to local residents, and if such application is approved, the capital is invested in external government bonds bearing interest at the rate of 4 percent a year and carrying a maturity of 12 years in the case of individuals, or 20 years in the case of f irms .4 Since March 27, 1984, former residents holding blocked assets and new emigrants have been al- lowed to invest their funds in Government of Zim- babwe external bonds with a maturity of 12 years and an annual interest rate of 4 percent. Remittance of the Zimbabwean pension of a former resident is guaranteed under the constitution. All other out- ward transfers of capital are subject to approval by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe, as are dealings in external securities. 4Effec t ive Janua ry 20, 1989, repatriation at accelerated rates, depending on discounted sales prices of net equity, is allowed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 554 ZIMBABWE Previously blocked funds, whether already con- verted into government bonds or not, can qualify as new venture capital if they are reinvested in Zim- babwe in an approved project and are matched by an inflow of investment funds of between zero and 50 percent of the reinvested blocked funds, as deter- mined by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe. From April 1989, blocked funds are allowed to be utilized for investment by third parties, foreign as well as domes- tic investors, at freely negotiated terms. As new ven- ture capital, the total investment will be eligible to be remitted as dividends for up to 50 percent of after-tax profits. However, the "blocked" portion of the new investment, unlike new venture capital, must be rein- vested in Zimbabwe for a minimum of five years depending on individual cases. Gold The exportation of gold in unmanufac tured form is controlled and licensed under the Control of Goods (exportation of minerals and metals) Order of 1979, which is administered by the Ministry of Mines. No person may export any precious metal and certain other specified metals and minerals un- less he holds an export license; no such licenses for gold are issued. These controls do not, however, apply to the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe. The impor- tation of gold is controlled by the Gold Trade Act, which provides for certain requirements to be met when a person intends to import gold into Zimbabwe. No person, either as pr inc ipal or agent, is en- titled to deal in or possess gold unless (1) he is the holder of a license or perm i t; (2) he is the holder or distributor of a registered mining location f rom which gold is being p roduced; or (3) he is the employee or agent of any of the persons men- tioned in (1) and (2) above, and is au tho r ized by his employer or principal to deal in or possess gold in the lawful possession of such employer or prin- cipal. A mining commissioner may issue to any person a perm it au tho r iz ing him to acquire, to be in possession of, or to dispose of any gold, pro- vided the quan t i ty does not exceed 1 troy ounce. In all o ther cases, permission can be issued only by the Secretary for M ines. Three types of licenses may be issued under the te rms of the Gold Trade Act: a gold dealing license, a gold recovery works license, and a gold assaying license. Barclays Bank of Zimbabwe, L td ., is the only au tho r ized dealer under the terms of the act. Each holder or d is tr ibu- tor of a registered mining location is requ ired to lodge w i th this bank all gold acquired by him du r ing his operations by the ten th day of the month following that in which the gold was pro- duced. When a person in tends to smelt any gold or any article containing gold, he must f i rst obtain a license issued by a district commissioner under the terms of the Secondhand Goods Act au thor iz- ing him to be in possession of smelting equ ipmen t. Changes During 1991 Imports and Import Payments July 17. An unrestricted open general import li- cense (OGIL) list was introduced. The list included food and stockfeed raw materials, tanning and foot- wear inputs, wood and furniture raw materials, foundry inputs, lead and zinc, hexane, cement and cement raw materials, plastic raw materials, light bulbs and fluorescent tubes, knitting yarn and carpet inputs, tires and tubes and raw materials for tires and tubes, pulp, and salt. In addition, the restricted OGIL list (which requires a license issued by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce) was expanded to include steel sections and channels, tallow complementaries for soap manufacturers, kraft paper, textile chemicals, foam rubber manufacturing inputs, fire extinguisher charges (mining), fasteners for transmissions and conveyer belts, and tinplate. December 31. The Export Retention Scheme was expanded and modified. The retention ratio was increased to 15 percent of export earnings for all exporters (applicable to exports during July-De- cember 1991) from 5-7.5 percent, varying among d ifferent sectors. The retained foreign exchange could be used for any merchandise imports except those on a small negative list (previously, only im- ports of inputs for the exporter's own production were allowed), and the imported goods were made freely transferable. In addition, the interval of ac- cess to the retained foreign exchange was changed to a quarterly basis from a semiannual basis. Payments for Invisibles December 1. The basic foreign exchange allowance for holiday travel was increased to Z$800 from Z$450 for a 12-month period. The basic foreign exchange allowance for import-related business travel was in- creased to Z$600 a day, up to a maximum of Z$6,000 a trip, with an annual maximum of Z$12,000, from Z$300, Z$3,000, and Z$6,000 respectively. The basic foreign exchange allowance for export-related busi- ness travel was increased to Z$700 a day, up to a maximum of Z$8,000 a trip, and Z$16,000 a year, from Z$350, Z$4,000, and Z$8,000, respectively. December 20. The maximum amount of Zimbab- wean currency that travelers leaving Zimbabwe may ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE 555 take out as part of their travel allowance was increased to Z$150 from Z$100, and the corresponding amount in foreign bank notes was increased from the equiv- alent of Z$60 to the equivalent of Z$150. Proceeds from Invisibles December 20. The maximum amount of Zimbab- wean currency that travelers may bring in was in- creased to Z$150 f rom Z$40. Changes During 1992 Imports and Import Payments January 1. Supplementary allocations of foreign exchange to industrial exporters determined on the basis of their incremental export performance for importation of raw materials to be used in produc- tion for the domestic market and to export-oriented mining and agricultural firms under the Export Pro- motion Program were discontinued. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX European Community: Selected Trade Measures Introduced and Eliminated on an EC-Wide Basis During 19911 Antidumping Duties 1. Introduction January 11. Provisional antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of small-screen color television receivers originating in China and Hong Kong (Commission Regulation No. 129/91). March 4. Definitive antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of certain types of electronic rni- crocircuits known as EPROMs (erasable program- mable read-only memories) originating in Japan (Council Regulation No. 577/91). March 4. Definitive antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of barium chloride originating in China (Council Regulation No. 541/91). April 8. Definitive antidumping du ty was im- posed on imports of certain welded tubes, and iron or nonalloy steel originating in Turkey and Venezu- ela (Council Regulation No. 898/91). April 23. Provisional antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of video cassette tapes originating in China (Commission Regulation No. 1034/91). April 29. Definitive antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of ferro-silicon originating in Bra- zil (Council Regulation No. 1115/91). May 13. Definitive antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of audiocassette tapes originating in Japan and the Republic of Korea (Council Regula- tion No. 1251/91). May 23. Provisional antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of gas-fueled, nonrefillable, pocket flint lighters originating in China, Japan, the Republic of Korea, and Thailand (Commission Reg- ulation No. 1386/91). May 27. Definitive antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of aspartame originating in Japan and the United States (Council Regulation No. 1391/91). May 29. Provisional an t idump ing du ty was im- posed on imports of oxalic acid originating in China and India (Commission Regulation No. 1472/91). June 24. Definitive antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of espadrilles originating in China (Council Regulation No. 1812/91). Source: Official Journal of the European Communities. 557 July 11. Provisional antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of dihydrostreptomycin originat- ing in China (Commission Regulation No. 2054/91). July 15. Definitive antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of small-screen color television receivers originating in China and Hong Kong (Council Regulation No. 2093/91). September 23. Provisional antidumping duty was imposed on imports into the EC of certain thermal paper originating in Japan (Commission Regulation No. 2805/91). September 23. Provisional antidumping duty was imposed on imports of cotton yarn originating in Brazil, Egypt, and Turkey (Commission Regulation No. 2818/91). September 27. Provisional antidumping duty was imposed on imports of certain polyester yarns (man-made staple fibers) originating in China, In- dia, Indonesia, Taiwan Province of China, and Tur- key (Commission Regulation No. 2904/91). November 25. Definitive antidumping duty was imposed on imports of oxalic acid originating in China and India (Council Regulation No. 3434/91). November 25. Definitive antidumping duty was imposed on imports of gas-fueled, nonrefillable pocket flint lighters originating in China, Japan, the Republic of Korea, and Thailand (Council Regula- tion No. 3433/91). December 19. Definitive antidumping duty was imposed on imports of dihydrostreptomycin orig- inating in China (Council Regulation No. 3836/91). 2. Extension March 4. Provisional antidumping duty on im- ports of audiocassette tapes originating in Hong Kong, Japan, and the Republic of Korea was ex- tended (Council Regulation No. 578/91). March 25. Provisional antidumping duty on im- ports of aspartame originating in Japan and the United States was extended (Council Regulation No. 792/91). April 22. Provisional antidumping duty on im- ports of espadrilles originating in China was ex- tended (Council Regulation No. 1051/91). May 14. Provisional antidumping duty on imports of small-screen color television receivers originating in China and Hong Kong was extended (Council Regulation No. 1283/91). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 558 APPENDIX August 2. Provisional antidumping du ty on im- ports of videocassette tapes originating in China was extended (Council Regulation No. 2525/91). September 23. Provisional antidumping duty on imports of oxalic acid originating in China and India was extended (Council Regulation No. 2833/91). September 23. Provisional antidumping duty on imports of gas-fuelled, nonrefillable pocket flint lighters originating in China, Japan, the Republic of Korea, and Thailand was extended (Council Regula- tion No. 2832/91). 3. Elimination December 12. Definitive antidumping du ty on im- ports of certain iron or steel coils originating in Algeria, Mexico, and Yugoslavia was terminated, repealing Decision No. 2132/88/ECSC (Commission Decision No. 3692/91/ECSC). Countervailing Charges 1. Introduction January 18. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh sweet oranges originating in Egypt (Commission Regulation No. 131/91). February 20. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of cucumbers originating in the Canary Islands (Commission Regulation No. 407/91). March 13. Countervailing charge was imposed on cucumbers originating in Bulgaria (Commission Regulation No. 607/91). April 10. Countervailing charge was imposed on cucumbers originating in the Canary Islands (Com- mission Regulation No. 894/91). April 10. Countervailing charge was imposed on fresh lemons originating in Morocco (Commission Regulation No. 895/91). April 11. Countervailing charge was imposed and preferential customs duty was suspended on tomatoes originating in Turkey (Commission Reg- ulation No. 911/91). April 12. Countervailing charge was imposed on cucumbers originating in Poland (Commission Reg- ulation No. 923/91). May 2. Countervailing charge was imposed on tomatoes originating in the Canary Islands (Com- mission Regulation No. 1129/91). May 7. Countervailing charge was imposed on cucumbers originating in Poland (Commission Reg- ulation No. 1188/91). May 16. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of tomatoes originating in Morocco (Com- mission Regulation No. 1292/91). May 17. Countervailing charge was imposed and preferential customs duty was suspended on im- ports of tomatoes originating in Turkey (Commis- sion Regulation No. 1309/91). May 17. Countervailing charge was imposed on tomatoes originating in the Canary Islands (Com- mission Regulation No. 1310/91). May 24. Countervailing charge was imposed on tomatoes originating in Israel (Commission Regula- tion No. 1372/91). May 27. Provisional countervailing charge was imposed on imports of polyester fibers and polyes- ter yarns originating in Turkey (Commission Reg- ulation No. 1432/91). June 6. Countervailing charge was imposed on fresh lemons originating in Israel (Commission Reg- ulation No. 1542/91). June 10. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of tomatoes originating in the Canary Is- lands (Commission Regulation No. 1569/91). June 11. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of apricots originating in Tunisia (Commis- sion Regulation No. 1584/91). June 14. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh lemons originating in Argentina (Commission Regulation No. 1676/91). June 24. Countervailing charge was imposed on apricots originating in Tunisia (Commission Regula- tion No. 1791/91). July 9. Countervailing charge was imposed on fresh lemons originating in Uruguay (Commission Regulation No. 2002/91). August 13. Countervailing charge was imposed on fresh lemons originating in Uruguay (Commis- sion Regulation No. 2464/91). August 14. Countervailing charge was imposed on fresh lemons originating in Argentina (Commis- sion Regulation No. 2476/91). August 30. Countervailing charge was imposed on table grapes originating in Turkey (Commission Regulation No. 2619/91). September 12. Countervailing charge was imposed on certain varieties of plum originating in Bulgaria (Commission Regulation No. 2704/91). September 24. Countervailing charge was imposed on fresh lemons originating in Uruguay (Commis- sion Regulation No. 2794/91). September 24. Countervailing charge was imposed on tomatoes originating in Poland (Commission Regulation No. 2793/91). September 26. Countervailing charge was imposed on fresh lemons originating in Argentina (Commis- sion Regulation No. 2822/91). October 2. Countervailing charge was imposed on fresh lemons originating in Argentina (Commission Regulation No. 2909/91), repealing Commission Regulation No. 2822/91). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 559 October 3. Countervailing charge was imposed on apples originating in Argentina (Commission Reg- ulation No. 2918/91). October 4. Countervailing charge was imposed on apples originating in Hungary (Commission Reg- ulation No. 2935/91). October 7. Countervailing charge was imposed on apples originating in Australia (Commission Reg- ulation No. 2947/91). October 16. Countervailing charge was imposed on fresh lemons originating in Uruguay (Commis- sion Regulation No. 3028/91). October 17. Countervailing charge was imposed on apples originating in Argentina (Commission Regulation No. 3044/91). November 13. Countervailing charge was imposed on fresh lemons originating in Argentina (Commis- sion Regulation No. 3314/91). November 21. Countervailing charge was imposed on apples originating in Hungary (Commission Regulation No. 3400/91). December 4. Countervailing charge was imposed on fresh lemons originating in South Africa (Com- mission Regulation No. 3525/91). December 23. Countervailing charge was imposed on apples originating in Hungary (Commission Regulation No. 3793/91). 2. Amendment May 24. Countervailing charge on imports of tomatoes originating in the Canary Islands was amended (Commission Regulation No. 1373/91). June 21. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Argentina was amended (Commission Regulation No. 1775/91). July 1. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Argentina was amended (Commission Regulation No. 1922/91). July 5. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Argentina was amended (Commission Regulation No. 1984/91). July 23. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Argentina was amended (Commission Regulation No. 2167/91). July 26. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Uruguay was amended (Com- mission Regulation No. 2255/91). August 21. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Argentina was amended (Commission Regulation No. 2508/91). August 22. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Uruguay was amended (Commission Regulation No. 2520/91). August 28. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Uruguay was amended (Commission Regulation No. 2557/91). September 2. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Argentina was amended (Commission Regulation No. 2625/91). September 10. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Argentina was amended (Commission Regulation No. 2683/91). October 11. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Argentina was amended (Commission Regulation No. 2987/91). October 18. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Argentina was amended (Commission Regulation No. 3064/91). October 24. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Argentina was amended (Commission Regulation No. 3109/91). October 30. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Uruguay was amended (Commission Regulation No. 3177/91). November 20. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Argentina was amended (Commission Regulation No. 3386/91). November 27. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Argentina was amended (Commission Regulation No. 3442/91). November 28. Countervailing charge on imports of tomatoes originating in Poland was amended (Com- mission Regulation No. 3460/91). 3. Elimination January 2. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh tangerines originating in Morocco was elimi- nated (Commission Regulation No. 9/91). January 24. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh sweet oranges originating in Egypt was elimi- nated (Commission Regulation No. 170/91). February 25. Countervailing charge on imports of cucumbers originating in the Canary Islands was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 434/91). March 20. Countervailing charge on imports of cucumbers originating in Bulgaria was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 680/91). April 23. Countervailing charge on imports of cucumbers originating in the Canary Islands was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 995/91). April 23. Countervailing charge on imports of tomatoes originating in Turkey was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 997/91). April 26. Countervailing charge on imports of lemons originating in Morocco was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 1069/91). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 560 APPENDIX May 8. Countervailing charge on imports of tomatoes originating in the Canary Islands was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 1229/91). May 21. Countervailing charge on imports of cucumbers originating in Poland was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 1319/91). May 27. Countervailing charge on imports of tomatoes originating in Morocco was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 1390/91). June 5. Countervailing charge on imports of tomatoes originating in Israel was eliminated (Com- mission Regulation No. 1530/91). June 10. Countervailing charge on imports of tomatoes originating in Turkey was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 1568/91). June 13. Countervailing charge on imports of lemons originating in Israel was eliminated (Com- mission Regulation No. 1616/91). July 16. Countervailing charge on imports of cher- ries originating in Bulgaria was eliminated (Com- mission Regulation No. 2086/91). July 31. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Uruguay was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 2327/91). August 7. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Argentina was elimi- nated (Commission Regulation No. 2404/91). September 3. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Uruguay was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 2635/91). September 5. Countervailing charge on imports of table grapes originating in Turkey was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 2659/91). September 16. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Argentina was elimi- nated (Commission Regulation No. 2727/91). October 2. Countervailing charge on imports of certain varieties of plum originating in Bulgaria was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 2908/91). October 3. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Uruguay was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 2919/91). October 4. Countervailing charge on imports of tomatoes originating in Poland was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 2936/91). October 10. Countervailing charge on imports of apples originating in Hungary was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 2975/91). October 10. Countervailing charge on imports of apples originating in Argentina was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 2996/91). October 25. Countervailing charge on imports of apples originating in Argentina was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 3127/91). October 28. Countervailing charge on imports of apples originating in Australia was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 3138/91). October 29. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Argentina was elimi- nated (Commission Regulation No. 3154/91). November 13. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Uruguay was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 3313/91). November 28. Countervailing charge on imports of apples originating in Hungary was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 3459/91). December 9. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Argentina was elimi- nated (Commission Regulation No. 3576/91). December 11. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in South Africa was elimi- nated (Commission Regulation No. 3599/91). December 12. Countervailing charge on imports of tomatoes originating in Poland was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 3614/91). Community Tariff Quotas Establishment June 17. Community tariff quota was established for certain quality wines and sparkling wines orig- inating in Austria (Council Regulation No. 1757/91). June 26. Community tariff quota was established for heifers and cows, other than those intended for slaughter, of certain mountain breeds (Council Reg- ulation No. 1894/91). June 1 . Community tariff quota was established for bu' is, cows, and heifers, other than those in- tended for slaughter, of certain Alpine breeds (Coum '1 Regulation No. 1895/91). June 28. Community tariff quota was established for certain agricultural products originating in Cyprus, Egypt, Israel, Morocco, and Tunisia (Coun- cil Regulation No. 1910/91). June 28. Community tariff quota was established for rum, tafia, and arrack originating in the African, Caribbean, and Pacific States (Council Regulation No. 1908/91). June 28. Community tariff quota was established for rum, tafia, and arrack originating in the overseas countries and territories associated with the Euro- pean Community (Council Regulation No. 1909/91). July 8. Community tariff quota was established for a certain form of manganese (Council Regulation No. 2026/91). July 8. Community tariff quota was established for ferrochromium containing more than 6 percent of carbon by weight (Council Regulation No. 2027/91). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 561 November 11. Community tariff quota was estab- lished for frozen peas originating in Sweden (Coun- cil Regulation No. 3303/91). November 11. Community tariff quota was estab- lished for certain agricultural and fishery products originating in certain EFTA countries (Council Reg- ulation No. 3304/91). November 18. Community tariff quota was estab- lished for ferrochromium containing more than 6 percent of carbon by weight (Council Regulation No. 3372/91). November 18. Community tariff quota was estab- lished for certain industrial products (Council Reg- ulation No. 3373/91). November 18. Community tariff quota was estab- lished for fresh or dried hazelnuts, shelled or not, originating in Turkey (Council Regulation No. 3403/91). November 19. Community tariff quota was estab- lished for chemically pure fructose originating in third countries not bound to the EC by a preferen- tial trade agreement (Council Regulation No. 3392/91). December 10. Community tariff quota was estab- lished for certain agricultural products originating in the African, Caribbean, and Pacific States (Coun- cil Regulation No. 3583/91). December 11. Community tariff quota was estab- lished for frozen thin skirts of bovine animals falling under CN code 0206-26-91 (1992) (Council Regula- tion No. 3670/91). December 11. Community tariff quota was estab- lished for frozen meat of bovine animals falling un- der CN code 0202 and for products falling under CN code 0206-29-91 (Council Regulation No. 3667/91). December 11. Community tariff quota was estab- lished for high-quality fresh, chilled, or frozen meat of bovine animals falling under CN codes 0201 and 0202 and for products falling under CN codes 0206- 10-95 and 0206-29-91 (Council Regulation No. 3668/91). December 11. Community tariff quota was estab- lished for frozen buffalo meat falling under CN code 0202-30-90 (Council Regulation No. 3669/91). December 12. Community tariff quota was estab- lished for prepared or preserved sardines originat- ing in Morocco, for the period January 1 through February 29,1992 (Council Regulation No. 3732/91). December 18. Community tariff quota was estab- lished for certain fishery products (Council Regula- tion No. 3902/91). December 19. Community tariff quota was estab- lished for certain agricultural and industrial prod- ucts (Council Regulation No. 3906/91). December 19. Community tariff quota was estab- lished for certain agricultural products originating in Algeria, Egypt, Morocco, and Tunisia (Council Regulation No. 3910/91). December 19. Community tariff quota was estab- lished for certain handmade products (Council Reg- ulation No. 3877/91). December 19. Community tariff quota was estab- lished for certain hand-woven fabrics, pile, and che- nille (Council Regulation No. 3878/91). December 19. Community tariff quota was estab- lished for certain fru i ts and fru it juices (Council Regulation No. 3879/91). December 19. Community tariff quota was estab- lished for certain agricultural products originating in Israel (Council Regulation No. 3912/91). December 19. Community tariff quota was estab- lished for certain agricultural products originating in Cyprus (Council Regulation No. 3913/91). December 23. Community tariff quota was estab- lished for certain fish and fishery products originat- ing in the Faroe Islands (Council Regulation No. 3923/91). Common Customs Tariff Suspension May 31. Common Customs Tariff import duty on certain industrial products (in the chemical and al- lied sectors) was suspended (Council Regulation No. 1811/91). May 31. Common Customs Tariff import duty on certain industrial products (in the microelectronics and related sectors) was suspended (Council Reg- ulation No. 1810/91). June 14. Common Customs Tariff import duty on fresh lemons originating in Israel was suspended (Council Regulation No. 1677/91). November 11. Common Customs Tariff import duty on certain industrial products (in the chemical and allied sectors) was suspended (Council Regula- tion No. 3449/91). November 11. Common Customs Tariff import duty on a number of agricultural products was sus- pended (Council Regulation No. 3448/91). November 18. Common Customs Tariff import duty on a number of products intended for the construction, maintenance, and repair of aircraft was suspended (Council Regulation No. 3450/91). November 25. Common Customs Tariff import duty on certain industrial products (in the micro- electronics and related sectors) was suspended (Council Regulation No. 3544/91). December 16. Common Customs Tariff import duty on products covered by Regulation No. 3833/90 and originating in Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, and Panama was suspended (Council Regulation No. 3900/91). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 562 APPENDIX December 16. Common Customs Tariff import duty on certain agricultural products originating in Turkey (1992) was suspended (Council Regulation No. 3764/91). December 19. Common Customs Tariff import duty on certain mixtures of residues from the man- ufac ture of starch from maize and residues from the extraction of maize germ oil by the wet process was suspended (Council Regulation No. 3799/91). Preferential Tariff Arrangement Elimination March 8. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 3102-10) originat- ing in Brazil, to which the preferential tariff ar- rangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 570/91). April 4. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Codes 8527, 8528, and 8529) originating in China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regula- tion No. 836/91). April 25. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 3102-80-00) orig- inating in Bulgaria, to which the preferential tar iff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1037/91). May 3. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within category 6 —Order No. 40.0060) originating in Pakistan, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commis- sion Regulation No. 1155/91). May 6. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within category 98, Order No. 40.0980) originating in China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commis- sion Regulation No. 1208/91). May 6. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Codes 6404 and 6405- 90-10) originating in Thailand, to which the prefer- ential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1209/91). May 6. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Codes 8527, 8528, and 8529) originating in Malaysia, to which the prefer- ential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1210/91). May 7. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Codes 6401 and 6402) originating in Malaysia, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regula- tion No. 1211/91). May 7. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Codes 3102-40-10 and 3102-40-90) originating in Poland, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commis- sion Regulation No. 1212/91). May 7. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Codes 6401 and 6402) originating in Indonesia, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regula- tion No. 1213/91). May 8. Customs duties were reintroduced on products originating in Yugoslavia, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commis- sion Regulation No. 1223/91). May 8. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Codes 3102-30-10 and 3102-30-90) originating in Poland, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commis- sion Regulation No. 1224/91). May 8. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Codes 6401 and 6402) originating in the Philippines, to which the prefer- ential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1225/91). May 8. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Codes 6401 and 6402) originating in Thailand, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regula- tion No. 1226/91). May 22. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within category 118—Order No. 42.1180) originating in China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commis- sion Regulation No. 1333/91). May 22. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within category 97 —Order No. 40.0970) originating in Thailand, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commis- sion Regulation No. 1332/91). May 22. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within category 75—Order No. 40.0750) originating in Indonesia, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commis- sion Regulation No. 1331/91). May 22. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within category 3—Order No. 40.0033, and category 5—Order No. 40.0050) originating in India, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1330/91). May 28. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Codes 3904-10-00, 3904-21-00, and 3904-22-00) originating in Brazil, to which the preferential tariff arrangements ap- plied (Commission Regulation No. 1420/91). June 4. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 2905-14-90) orig- inating in Brazil, to which the preferential tariff ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 563 arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1504/91). June 4. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 3102-80-10) orig- inating in Poland, to which the preferential tar iff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1505/91). June 4. Customs duties were reintroduced on prod- ucts (falling within CN Code 3105) originating in Po- land, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1506/91). June 4. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within category 9, Order No. 40.0090, and category 39, Order No. 40.0390) originating in India, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1507/91). June 12. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within category 20 —Order No. 40.0200) originating in Thailand, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commis- sion Regulation No. 1589/91). June 12. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within categories 4, 21, and 37— Order Nos. 40.0040, 40.0210, and 40.0370) originat- ing in Indonesia, to which the preferential tar iff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1590/91). June 12. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within categories 22, 26, and 37— Order Nos. 40.0220, 40.0260, and 40.0370) originat- ing in Pakistan, to which the preferential tariff ar- rangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1591/91). June 12. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within category 90 —Order No. 40.0900) originating in Hungary, to which the preferential tar iff arrangements applied (Commis- sion Regulation No. 1592/91). June 19. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Codes 8523 and 8524) originating in China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1748/91). June 19. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 9503) originating in China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1749/91). June 24. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within category 17—Order No. 40.0170) originating in India, to which the pref- erential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1805/91). June 24. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within category 16—Order No. 40.0160) originating in Thailand, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commis- sion Regulation No. 1804/91). June 24. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within category 15—Order No. 40.0150) originating in Pakistan, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commis- sion Regulation No. 1803/91). June 27. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 2905-14-90) orig- inating in Poland, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1920/91). June 27. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 3105) originating in Hungary, to which the preferential tariff arrange- ments applied (Commission Regulation No. 1921/91). July 2. Customs duties were reintroduced on prod- ucts (faUing within CN Codes 3904-10-00, 3904-21- 00, and 3904-22-00) originating in Poland and Mexico, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1948/91). July 2. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 3102-30) originat- ing in Hungary, to which the preferential tariff ar- rangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1947/91). July 2. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Codes 3904-10-00, 3904-21-00, and 3904-22-00) originating in Hun- gary, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1949/91). July 18. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 2921-19-10) orig- inating in Brazil, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2129/91). July 24. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within categories 29, 72, and 78 — Order Nos. 40.0290, 40.0720, and 40.0780) originat- ing in Thailand, to which the preferential tariff ar- rangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2216/91). July 24. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within categories 10, 18, 39, 40, and 74—Order Nos. 40.0100, 40.0180, 40.0390, 40.0400, and 40.0740) originating in Pakistan, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2215/91). July 24. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within categories 1, 22, 23, and 31_Order Nos. 40.0010, 40.0220, 40.0230, and 40.0310) originating in Indonesia, to which the pref- erential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2214/91). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 564 APPENDIX July 24. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within category 75—Order No. 40.0750) originating in China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commis- sion Regulation No. 2177/91). July 24. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 2914-21-00) orig- inating in China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2178/91). July 24. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Codes 3903, 3915-20- 00, 3920-30-00, and 3920-99-50) originating in Bra- zil, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2180/91). July 24. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 3102-40) originat- ing in Czechoslovakia, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regula- tion No. 2179/91). July 24. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within category 50—Order No. 40.0500) originating in Argentina, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commis- sion Regulation No. 2175/91). July 24. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within category 72—Order No. 40.0720) originating in Brazil, to which the pref- erential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2176/91). July 24. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within category 33—Order No. 40.0330) originating in Hungary, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commis- sion Regulation No. 2173/91). July 24. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within category 41—Order No. 40.0410) originating in Czechoslovakia, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2174/91). July 24. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within Order Nos. 40.0080, 40.0160, and 40.0220) originating in India, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Com- mission Regulation No. 2213/91). July 26. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Codes 7407 and 7411) originating in Mexico, to which the preferential tar- iff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2250/91). August 1. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 3923-21-00) orig- inating in Malaysia, to which the preferential tar iff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2344/91). August 1. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 3503-00-10) orig- inating in Brazil, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2343/91). August 1. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 7013) originating in China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2342/91). August 1. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 4106-20-00) orig- inating in India, to which the preferential tariff ar- rangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2341/91). August 1. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 3102-30) originat- ing in Czechoslovakia, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regula- tion No. 2340/91). August 1. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 7217) originating in Czechoslovakia, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2339/91). August 1. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 9105) originating in China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2338/91). August I. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 6403) originating in India, Indonesia, and Thailand, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commis- sion Regulation No. 2337/91). August 5. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within category 55—Order No. 40.0550) originating in Hungary, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commis- sion Regulation No. 2391/91). August 5. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within categories 9, 20, 41, and 72—Order Nos. 40.0090, 40.0200, 40.0410, and 40.0720) originating in Indonesia, to which the pref- erential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2390/91). August 5. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within category 75—Order No. 40. 0750) originating in Thailand, to which the prefer- ential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2389/91). August 5. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 9403-80-00) orig- inating in China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2388/91). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 565 August 5. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 4203-29-10) orig- inating in India, to which the preferential tariff ar- rangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2387/91). August 5. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 9401) originating in Poland, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2386/91). August 9. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Codes 6401 and 6402) originating in Brazil, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2434/91). August 20. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 2827-32-00) orig- inating in India, to which the preferential tariff ar- rangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2506/91). August 20. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 2817-00) originat- ing in China, to which the preferential tariff ar- rangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2505/91). August 20. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 3206-42-00) orig- inating in China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2504/91). August 23. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 2850-00-70) orig- inating in Argentina, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2531/91). August 23. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 4203) originating in India and Pakistan, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regula- tion No. 2530/91). September 2. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 2930-90-10) originating in China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2624/91). September 6. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 8712-00) orig- inating in China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2669/91). September 16. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within category 101—Order No. 40.1010) originating in India, to which the pref- erential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2724/91). September 18. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 8516-50-00) originating in China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2738/91). September 23. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 9403-80-00) originating in the Philippines, to which the prefer- ential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2788/91). September 23. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Codes 9101 and 9102) originating in China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regula- tion No. 2787/91). September 23. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 8516-50-00) originating in Thailand, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regula- tion No. 2786/91). September 23. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Codes 3903, 3915, 20-00, 3920-30-00, and 3920-99-50) originating in Mexico, to which the preferential tariff arrange- ments applied (Commission Regulation No. 2785/91). September 25. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 2904-20-90) originating in China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2814/91). September 25. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 3923-21-00) originating in Thailand, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regula- tion No. 2815/91). October 14. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within category 97—Order No. 40.0970) originating in China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commis- sion Regulation No. 3008/91). October 14. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within category 74—Order No. 40.0740) originating in Indonesia, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commis- sion Regulation No. 3007/91). October 14. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within category 35—Order No. 40.0350) originating in Pakistan, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commis- sion Regulation No. 3006/91). October 14. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within category 32—Order No. 40.0320) originating in Brazil, to which the pref- erential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 3005/91). October 14. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within categories 9 and 20—Order ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 566 APPENDIX Nos. 40.0090 and 40.0200) originating in Sri Lanka, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 3002/91). October 14. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within category 23—Order No. 40.0230) originating in Bulgaria, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commis- sion Regulation No. 3004/91). October 14. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within category 20 —Order No. 40.0200) originating in India, to which the pref- erential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 3003/91). October 15. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Codes 7407 and 7408) originating in Poland, to which the preferential tar- iff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 3039/91). October 18. Customs duties were re in troduced on products (fa l l ing within CN Code 3802-10-00) originating in China, to which the p re fe ren t ial ta r i ff arrangemen ts applied (Commission Regula- tion No. 3058/91). October 23. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within category CN Code 4106- 20-00) originating in Pakistan, to which the prefer- ential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 3104/91). October 23. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within category 19—Order No. 40.0190) originating in Malaysia, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commis- sion Regulation No. 3105/91). November 5. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 3923-21-00) originating in China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 3222/91). November 11. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within category 22 —Order No. 40.0220) originating in the Philippines, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 3293/91). November 13. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within category 33—Order No. 40.0330) originating in India, to which the pref- erential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 3322/91). November 13. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within category 17—Order No. 40.0170) originating in Indonesia, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commis- sion Regulation No. 3323/91). November 13. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 2523) originat- ing in Romania, to which the preferential tariff ar- rangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 3324/91). November 19. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Codes 3903, 3915-20-00, 3920-30-00, and 3920-99-50) originating in Venezu- ela, to which the preferential tariff arrangements ap- plied (Commission Regulation No. 3362/91). November 19. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 2903-51-00) originating in China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 3361/91). December 13. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Codes 4011 and 4013) originating in Brazil, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regula- tion No. 3652/91). December 13. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 9503) originat- ing in Singapore, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 3653/91). December 18. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within category 13—Order No. 40.0130) originating in Pakistan, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commis- sion Regulation No. 3703/91). December 19. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 2523) originat- ing in Czechoslovakia, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regula- tion No. 3751/91). December 19. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 2523) originat- ing in Poland, to which the preferential tariff ar- rangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 3752/91). December 19. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 2941-20-10) originating in China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 3753/91). Preferential Customs Duties 1. Suspension (and reintroduction of Common Customs Tariff duty) January 15. Preferential customs du ty was sus- pended and Common Customs Tariff du ty was reintroduced on imports of large-flowered roses originating in Morocco (Commission Regulation No. 94/91). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPEND IX 567 March 5. Preferential customs du ty was sus- pended and Common Customs Tariff du ty was re- introduced on imports of small-flowered roses orig- inating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 536/91). April 4. Preferential customs duty was suspended and Common Customs Tariff du ty was re- introduced on imports of small-flowered roses orig- inating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 835/91). April 10. Preferential customs du ty was sus- pended and Common Customs Tariff du ty was re- introduced on imports of multiflorous (spray) car- nations originating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 896/91). April 15. Preferential customs du ty was sus- pended and Common Customs Tariff duty was re- introduced on imports of large-flowered roses orig- inating in Morocco (Commission Regulation No. 930/91). April 15. Preferential customs du ty was sus- pended and Common Customs Tariff duty was re- introduced on imports of uniflorous (s tanda rd) car- nations originating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 929/91). May 27. Preferential customs du ty was sus- pended and Common Customs Tariff du ty was re- introduced on imports of large-flowered roses orig- inating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 1388/91). May 29. Preferential customs du ty was sus- pended and Common Customs Tariff du ty was re- introduced on imports of small-flowered roses orig- inating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 1461/91). November 8. Preferential customs du ty was sus- pended and Common Customs Tariff du ty was re- introduced on imports of uniflorous (standard) car- nations originating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 3274/91). November 8. Preferential customs du ty was sus- pended and Common Customs Tariff du ty was re- introduced on imports of large-flowered roses orig- inating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 3273/91). November 8. Preferential customs du ty was sus- pended and Common Customs Tariff duty was re- introduced on imports of small-flowered roses orig- inating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 3272/91). November 20. Preferential customs du ty was sus- pended and Common Customs Tariff du ty was re- introduced on imports of multiflorous (spray) car- nations originating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 3384/91). 2. Re-establishment I reintroduction January 2. Preferential customs duty was re- established on imports of multiflorous (spray) carna- tions originating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 5/91). January 23. Preferential customs duty was re- established on imports of large-flowered roses orig- inating in Morocco (Commission Regulation No. 155/91). March 14. Preferential customs duty was re- introduced on imports of small-flowered roses orig- inating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 617/91). April 19. Preferential customs du ty was re- established on imports of single-flower (standard) carnations originating in Israel (Commission Reg- ulation No. 971/91). May 13. Preferential customs du ty was re- established on imports of large-flowered roses orig- inating in Morocco (Commission Regulation No. 1238/91). May 13. Preferential customs duty was re- established on imports of multiflorous (spray) car- nations originating in Israel (Commission Regula- tion No. 1237/91). May 13. Preferential customs du ty was re- introduced on imports of large-flowered roses orig- inating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 1236/91). May 13. Preferential customs duty was re- introduced on imports of small-flowered roses orig- inating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 1235/91). November 29. Preferential customs du ty was re- introduced on imports of small-flowered roses orig- inating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 3491/91). Import Surveillance January 7. Import surveillance on videotape re- corders originating in South Korea was extended (Commission Regulation No. 43/91). February 14. Imports of diammonium hydro- genorthophosphate (falling within CN code 3105- 30-00) originating in nonmember countries were subject to surveillance (Commission Regulation No. 371/91). February 15. Surveillance on re impor ta t ion a f t er ou twa rd processing of cer ta in textile p roduc ts originating in Ma l ta, Morocco, Tunisia, and Tur- key was ex tended (Commission Regulation No. 372/91). June 14. Imports of Atlantic salmon were subject to surveillance (Commission Regulation No. 1658/91). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 568 APPENDIX October 14. Imports of certain products originat- ing in Malta were subject to surveillance (Commis- sion Regulation No. 3035/91). October 7. Impo rt surveillance on certain textile p roduc ts originating in Morocco and Tunisia was extended (Commission Regulation No. 2928/91). December 19. Import surveillance on foo twear originating in all nonmember coun tr ies was ex- tended (Commission Regulation No. 3750/91). December 19. Import surveillance on videotape recorders originating in South Korea was extended (Commission Regulation No. 3749/91). December 19. Import surveillance on certain tex- tile produc ts originating in Egyp t, Malta, and Tur- key was extended (Commission Regulation No. 3789/91). Quantitative Restrictions July 15. Quantitative restrictions applying to im- ports of certain products originating in the former U.S.S.R. were liberalized (Council Regulation No. 2158/91). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Summary Features of Exchange and Trade Systems in Member Countries ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Summary Features of Exchange and (as of date shown on first A. Acceptance of Article Status 1. Article VIII status 2. Article XIV status B. Exchange Arrangement3 1. Exchange rate determined on the basis of: (a) A peg to: (i) the U.S. dollar (ii) the pound sterling (in) the French franc (iv) other currencies4 (v) a composite of currencies (b) Limited flexibility with respect to: (i) single currency (ii) cooperative arrangement (c) More flexible arrangements: (i) adjusted according to a set of indicators (ii) other managed floating (Hi) independently floating 2. Separate exchange rate(s) for some or all capital transactions and/or some or all invisibles 3. More than one rate for imports 4. More than one rate for exports 5. Import rate(s) different from ex- port rate(s) C. Payments Arrears D. Bilateral Payments Arrangements 1. With members 2. With nonmembers E. Payments Restrictions 1. Restrictions on payments for cur- rent transactions5 2. Restrictions on payments for capi- tal transactions5'6 F. Cost-Related Import Restrictions 1. Import surcharges 2. Advance import deposits G. Surrender or Repatriation Require- ment for Export Proceeds For key and footnotes, see page 575. A f n a h g i s t n a _ .2 1 • ao»* - - _ - •§&< «x T31£ 1 1 1 _ - _ 1£ _ ! _ A u s r t a i l a _ to < _ T e h B a h a m s a _ *«j x flS PQ _ B g n a l s e d a h B a r o d a b s B e l g i u m d n a L e x u m u o b r g _ % 1 _ _g 1 1 x CO .2 1 _ B o t s w a n a « •§«ssp 3CQ g (2 03c ^2 1 B u r d n u i - n - c J C a d a n a •_ - - _ 570 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Trade Systems in Member Countries1 country page)2 - - - • - - - - • - • - • • - • - - • • - - • - - - • - - • • • • - • • - • - • - - - - - • - • • - - - • • - • • - • • -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - • • - - - • • - • - - - - - - - - - • - - - - • - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- Aw . " • ' - - - - • - - - • - - - - - - - • • - - - - - - - - - - • - - • • -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - • - - • - - - - - - • - • - - • - - • - - - • • - - - - - - • - - - - • • - - - - - - - - - • - • • - - -- - - - - • - - - - - - • - - - - • • - - - - - - - - - • - • • - - -- - - - - • • - - - - - • - - - - • • - - - - - - - - - • - - • - - -- - - - - • • - - - - - • - - - - • - • • - - - • • - - - - - • - • - • • - - - - - - - - - • - • • - - - • - - - - • • - - -- • - - - • - - - - • • - - - - - • - - - - • • - - - - - • - - - - • • - - - - • - - - - • - - - • • -- • - - - - - - - - - • - - - • - -- - - - - - • - • • - • - • • - - - - - - - - - - • • - • - -• - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- C e p a V e r e d C n e r t a l A i r f n a c R p e . C d a h C h l i e C h i a n C o o l m b i a C o m o r o s C o g n o C o s t a R i a c C o t e d l ' o v r i e C p y r u s C o h c e z s l k a v o i a D n e m a r k D i j u o b i t D o m i n i a c D o m i n i n a c R b u p e i l c E o d a u c r E p y g t E l S a l o d a v r E a u q t o i r a l G u i a e n p i o j h i E f t i i a F i n l d n a F r e c n a G n o b a T e h G a m b i a G e r m y n a G a n a h G r e c e e G r a d a n e G a u t e m a l a G u i a e n G u i a e n - B i u a s s G a n a y u H a i t i 571 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Summary Features of Exchange and (as of date shown on first A. Acceptance of Article Status 1. Article VIII status 2. Article XIV status B. Exchange Arrangement3 1. Exchange rate determined on the basis of: (a) A peg to: (i) the U.S. dollar (ii) the pound sterling (in) the French franc (iv) other currencies4 (v) a composite of currencies (b) Limited flexibility with respect to: (z) single currency (ii) cooperative arrangement (c) More flexible arrangements: (i) adjusted according to a set of indicators (ii) other managed floating (Hi) independently floating 2. Separate exchange rate(s) for some or all capital transactions and/or some or all invisibles 3. More than one rate for imports 4. More than one rate for exports 5. Import rate(s) different from ex- port rate(s) C. Payments Arrears D. Bilateral Payments Arrangements 1. With members 2. With nonmembers E. Payments Restrictions 1. Restrictions on payments for cur- rent transactions5 2. Restrictions on payments for capi- tal transactions5'6 F. Cost-Related Import Restrictions 1. Import surcharges 2. Advance import deposits G. Surrender or Repatriation Require- ment for Export Proceeds For key and footnotes, see page 575. H u d n o r s a e - bO 1 bo 1 9 - cr-aG _ I e c l d n a e rt 1 _ I s e n o d n i a 9 - *o cL&_u r3 2 g D cr 2 •s03a iCft X 1 .§ A 1flj £ flS 1 1 1 K i r i a b i t 1 K u w a t i i 1 eft "v'S,1o 3 L n o n a b e L s e o h o t «o 1j L i n a y b A r b a a J m h a i r i a y D M a c s a g a d a r _ M a l a w i 572 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Trade Systems in Member Countries1 (continued) country page)2 • - - - - - • - - - - - - • • - - • • - • - • • - • • - - - - • • - - • - - • - • • - • - - • • - - • • - - • • - -- - - - - - - - • - - - - - - • - • - - - • - • - - - - - - - - - • - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- D D • - - • - • - - • - • - • - - - - - - • - - - • - - - - - - - • - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- A " ' — — «i • ~ - ' W ' - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - • - - • - - - - - • - • - - - • - • • - • - - - - - •- - - • • - • - • • - • - - - - - - - - • - - - - - • - - • • - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - • • - • • - - - • - • - - • - - • • - - • • - -- - - - - - • - • - - - • • - • - • - - - - • • - • • - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- M a l y a s i a M a l d i s e v " M a i l M a t l a M u a t i r n a i a M u a i t i r u s M o c x e i M o g n o i l a M o r o c c o M a z o m e u q b i M n a y m a r N a m i b i a N a p e l N e t e h l r d n a s N e t e h l r d n a s A n l l i t s e N e w Z a e l d n a N i a c r a u g a N i e g r N i e g i r a N o r w y a m O n a P k a i s t n a P a n a m a P a u p a N e w G u i a e n P a r y a u g a P e r u h P i l i p p i s e n o P l d n a o P t r a g u l Q a t a r R o m n a i a w R a d n a S . t K t t i s d n a N v e i s S . t L c u i a S . t V i n e c n t d n a G r d a n e i s e n 573 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Summary Features of Exchange and (as of date shown on first A. Acceptance of Article Status 1. Article VIII status 2. Article XIV status B. Exchange Arrangement3 1. Exchange rate determined on the basis of: (a) A peg to: (i) the U.S. dollar (ii) the pound sterling (Hi) the French franc (iv) other currencies4 (v) a composite of currencies (b) Limited flexibility with respect to: (i) single currency (ii) cooperative arrangement (c) More flexible arrangements: (i) adjusted according to a set of indicators (ii) other managed floating (in) independently floating 2. Separate exchange rate(s) for some or all capital transactions and/or some or all invisibles 3. More than one rate for imports 4. More than one rate for exports 5. Import rate(s) d ifferent f rom ex- port rate(s) C. Payments Arrears D. Bilateral Payments Arrangements 1. With members 2. With nonmembers E. Payments Restrictions 1. Restrictions on payments for cur- rent transactions5 2. Restrictions on payments for capi- tal transactions5'6 F. Cost-Related Import Restrictions 1. Import surcharges 2. Advance import deposits G. Surrender or Repatriation Require- ment for Export Proceeds For key and footnotes, see page 575. .&•u £•a PH T3 C nj 0> 1 O£ _ .5&re < *3 1 - <swoo> 1 _ S e h c y e l l s e - D <l>! 1en _ o p a g n S i r e - _ o o S l m n o s I l d n a s - o S m a i l a _ 8 < 1 - c '«Scxen - rC ^G3 •cen _ c (C T3J? _ u S i r a n m e - S w z a l i d n a - S w n e d e - 8- & ,JQ 2 < c S!• _ T n a z n a i a _ T a h l i d n a - o £ _ ns bO 1 - T i r n i d a d d n a T o g a b o _ T n u i s i a _ fr ^ £ - td1 D _ U n t i d e A r b a E m r i a t s e - _ - - _ - - 574 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Trade Systems in Member Countries1 (concluded) country page)2 m o d g n i K d e t i n U a o m a S n r e t s e W m a N t e i V y a u g u r U u t a u n a V a l e u z e n e V s e t a t S d e t i n U n e m e Y f o c i l b u p e R a i v a l s o g u Y e r i a Z e w b a b m i Z a i b m a Z • • • - - - - - -- A - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - • - - • - - - -• - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - -- - • • - • - - - - • -- - - - - - • • - - - -• - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - • - - - • •- - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - -- - - • • - - - • • - • - - - - - - - - - - -- Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions 1992 Key and Footnotes • indicates that the specified practice is a feature of the exchange and trade system. — indicates that the specified practice is not a feature of the system. n indicates that the composite is the SDR. aThe listing includes a nonmetropolitan territory (Hong Kong) for which the United Kingdom has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agree- ment, and Aruba and the Netherlands Antilles, for which the Kingdom of the Netherlands has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agreement. Ex- change practices indicated in individual countries do not necessarily apply to all external transactions. 2Usually December 31, 1991. 3It should be noted that existence of a separate rate does not neces- sarily imply a multiple currency practice under Fund jurisdiction. Ex- change arrangements involving transactions at a unitary rate with one group of countries and at another unitary rate with a second group of countries are considered, from the viewpoint of the overall economy, to involve two separate rates for similar transactions. 4Australian dollar, deutsche mark, Indian rupee, or South African rand. Restrictions (i.e., official actions directly affecting the availability or cost of exchange, or involving undue delay) on payments to member countries, other than restrictions imposed for security reasons under Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted August 14, 1952. 6Resident-owned funds. 575 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • ACP-EC ACU AMU ANZCERTA ASEAN BCEAO BEAC BTN CACM CAP CARICOM CEEAC CEPGL CET CMA CMEA COCOM EC ECCB ECLAC ECO ECOWAS ECSC ECU EEC EFTA EMS EPZ ERM EURATOM GATT GCC GSP IBEC ICO IMF LAIA LIBOR MERCOSUR MFA MFN MTN NATO OECD OECS OGL PTA SACU SIP SPARTECA UAPTA LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS* African, Caribbean, and Pacific State signatories to the Lome Convention Asian Clearing Union Asian Monetary Unit Australia-New Zealand Closer Economic Relations and Trade Agreement Association of South East Asian Nations Central Bank of West African States (Banque centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest) Bank of Central African States (Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale) Brussels Tariff Nomenclature Central American Common Market Common Agricultural Policy (of the EC) Caribbean Common Market Communaute economique des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries Common External Tariff (of CARICOM) Common Monetary Area Council for Mutual Economic Assistance Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Export Controls European Community Eastern Caribbean Central Bank Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean Economic Cooperation Organization Economic Community of West African States (CEDEAO) European Coal and Steel Community European Currency Unit European Economic Community European Free Trade Association European Monetary System Export processing zone Exchange rate mechanism (of the EMS) European Atomic Energy Community General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade Gulf Cooperation Council (Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf) Generalized System of Preferences International Bank for Economic Cooperation International Coffee Organization International Monetary Fund Latin American Integration Association (ALADI) London interbank offered rate Southern Cone Common Market Multifiber Arrangement Most favored nation Multilateral Trade Negotiations (the Uruguay Round) North Atlantic Treaty Organization Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development Organization of Eastern Caribbean States Open general license Preferential Trade Area for Eastern and Southern African States Southern African Customs Union Special Import Program South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement Unit of account of the PTA 576 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS* UDEAC UN WAEC WAMU Central African Customs and Economic Union United Nations West African Economic Community (CEAO) West African Monetary Union *This list does not include abbreviations of purely national institutions mentioned in the country pages. 577 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 