 T H I RD A N N U AL R E P O RT ON E X C H A N GE R E S T R I C T I O NS 1952 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution I N T E R N A T I O N AL M O N E T A RY F U ND Third Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions 1952 Washington, D. C. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letter of Transmittal to Members and Governors of the Fund May 30, 1952 Dear Sir: I have the honor to transmit to you a copy of the International Monetary Fund's Third Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions which has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article XIV, Section 4, of the Articles of Agreement. As you are aware, the member countries of the Fund which are still availing themselves of the transitional arrangements under Article XIV of the Fund Agreement are now consulting the Fund as to their further retention. It will be noted that Part I of the Report is largely devoted to the procedure being followed in these consultations. As stated in the Report, the Fund sees the initiation of the consultations as the beginning of a process through which there can be provided the means of obtaining a better understanding of the situation in the member countries on which the basis may be laid for closer international collaboration and cooperation in the monetary field. On behalf of the Executive Board, I should like to express our appreciation of the cooperation of the members in the prepara- tion of the second part of the Report. Sincerely yours, /s/ IVAR ROOTH Chairman of the Executive Board and Managing Director V ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONTENTS PART I A. INTRODUCTION B. THE 1952 CONSULTATIONS UNDER ARTICLE XIV OF THE FUND AGREEMENT 1. Consultation Requirement of the Fund Agreement 2. Use of Restrictions by Member Countries 3. Procedure of Consultations under Article XIV, Section 4 4. Status of Consultation Work C. THE FUND'S ROLE IN THE 1952 CONSULTATIONS UNDER THE GATT 1. Article X IV : l (g) of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 2. Article XI :3 of the Special Exchange Agreements 3. Other GATT Consultations in 1952 D. CONCLUDING OBSERVATIONS A. INTRODUCTION B. DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIONS PART II 1. Introduction 2. Developments in the Application of Restrictions. C. COUNTRY SURVEYS Explanatory Note on Terminology Australia Austria Belgium-Luxembourg Bolivia Brazil Burma Ceylon Chile vii Page 1 3 3 3 5 8 9 9 11 13 14 17 19 19 20 29 29 33 36 38 47 51 55 57 60 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution China (Taiwan) Colombia Costa Rica Cuba Czechoslovakia Denmark Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt Ethiopia Finland France Greece Hong Kong Iceland India Iran Iraq Italy Lebanon Netherlands Nicaragua Norway Pakistan Paraguay Peru i Philippine Republic Sweden Syria Thailand Turkey Union of South Africa United Kingdom Uruguay viii Page 65 68 72 74 76 77 80 81 85 89 91 93 99 101 105 109 113 116 118 121 123 126 130 132 135 138 141 144 146 150 154 156 159 165 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Venezuela Yugoslavia APPENDICES I. Article VIII, Sections 1 to 4 Inclusive, and Ar- ticle XIV of the Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund II. Procedure of Consultations Under Article XIV, Section 4, as Adopted by the Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund, January 24, 1952 III. Enqu iry on Exchange Systems and Related Matters IV. The Sterling Area: A Statement by the Com- monwealth Finance Ministers SURVEYS OF EXCHANGE CONTROLS AND RESTRICTIONS IN Argentina Federal Republic of Germany Hashemite Kingdom of the Jordan Indonesia Israel Japan New Zealand Portugal Spain Switzerland Page 168 171 175 178 180 188 195 199 202 204 209 213 216 218 220 225 ix ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT I ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution A. Introduction One of the purposes of the International Monetary Fund, set forth in Article I of the Articles of Agreement, is: "To assist in the establishment of a multilateral system of payments in respect of current transactions between members and in the elimination of foreign exchange restrictions which hamper the growth of world trade." The Fund Agreement recognizes that restrictions may have to be maintained, and provides in Article VIII for their existence with the approval of the Fund and in Article XIV for their retention dur ing the postwar transitional period. It is nevertheless the philosophy of the Fund Agree- ment that restrictions are to be regarded as temporary devices to be removed as soon as conditions permit. In its Second Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions, the Fund recognized the difficulties and problems being faced by mem- ber countries under present circumstances and the uncertainties resulting from the strained international situation and rearma- ment. That Report, however, stated that even in these new cir- cumstances it was the view of the Fund that, if countries had favorable balance of payments conditions and were experiencing increases in their reserves providing a reasonable basis of ex- change stability, it was in their interest, and in that of the in- ternational community, to relax or remove restrictions unless such action would produce conditions jus t ify ing the intensifica- tion or reintroduction of restrictions. During 1951 and the early months of 1952, the Fund, among its other activities, continued its work in the field of restric- tions and sent technical missions to a number of its member countries, namely, Austria, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Greece, Iceland, Iran, Paraguay, and Yugoslavia. In addition, there have been fact-finding visits to a number of countries. Through the missions, advice and guidance for members on their exchange policy have been provided, assisting in progress toward the practical realization of the objectives of the Fund Agreement. Several of these missions resulted from requests received f rom member countries asking for Fund approval of changes in their exchange systems which they were proposing to bring into effect. Associated with its work in exchange restric- tions was the Fund participation in the Sixth Session of the Contracting Parties to the General Agreement on Tar iffs and 1 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 2_ REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Trade, which was held in Geneva in the autumn of 1951, and in Geneva meetings of the Contracting Parties' Ad Hoc Com- mittee on Agenda and Intersessional Business in January and in February 1952.1 In 1952, the Fund entered a new period of activity in the field of restrictions as a result of the requirement for consultations between member countries and the Fund on the further reten- tion of exchange restrictions. The nature of these consultations, and of the parallel consultations under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, is considered in the following sections of this Part of the Report. 1 In this Report, the term "Contracting Parties" is written with capitals "C" and "P" when used in the collective sense of the contracting parties acting jointly. In quotations from the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and from the special exchange agreements, however, this collective sense is indicated by the form "CONTRACTING PARTIES." ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution B. The 1952 Consultations under Article XIV of the Fund Agreement 1. Consultation Requirement of the Fund Agreement For the postwar transitional period, Article XIV, Section 2, of the Fund Agreement provides, in part, that member countries may maintain and adapt to changing circumstances (and, in the case of members whose territories have been occupied by the enemy, introduce where necessary) restrictions on payments and transfers for current international transactions, without the Fund's approval which would otherwise be required. The large majority of the Fund's members have availed themselves of these transitional arrangements. The Agreement provides that members shall withdraw exchange restrictions which are no longer necessary for balance of payments reasons. Section 4 of Article XIV also provides that "Five years after the date on which the Fund begins operations, and in each year thereafter, any member still retaining any restrictions inconsistent with Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, or 4, shall consult the Fund as to their fu r ther retention." The Fund began operations, in this sense, on March 1, 1947, so that the first series of consultations formally began on March 1, 1952.1 2. Use of Restrictions by Member Countries The use of restrictions by member countries which are avail- ing themselves of the transitional arrangements under Article XIV, Section 2, of the Fund Agreement is described in the brief country surveys in Part II of this Report. Part II also sum- marizes the changes in the use of restrictions which took place during 1951 and the early months of 1952. In this period there was considerable relaxation in the application of restrictions, particularly during the first half of 1951. Many countries con- tinued the process of relaxation beyond mid-1951; but the later months of 1951 and the early months of 1952 saw the intensifica- tion of restrictions by a number of countries, including some with important international financial positions. After the various relaxations and intensifications, there still remains a widespread use of restrictive practices by the Fund's members. It may be said that the world situation is consider- ably different from what was envisaged at the time the Fund 1 The texts of Article VIII, Sections 1 to 4 inclusive, and of Article XIV of the Fund Agreement are attached to this Report as Appendix I. 3 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution £_ REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Agreement was drawn up at Bretton Woods. Many more coun- tries rely to a significant degree on the use of restrictions to cope with balance of payments problems than was thought would be found seven years after the end of the war. The nature of the restrictive practices in use differs considerably among countries. In many countries restrictions are employed chiefly to cope with balance of payments difficulties, although in some countries other considerations are important in greater or less degree. A minority (about one sixth) of the member countries surveyed in Part II does not employ significant restrictions other than through multiple currency practices, tariffs, and other commercial and domestic policy devices. The majority, however, does rely on such restrictions. Moreover, most of the latter group discriminate in the application of their restrictions so that payments in "hard currencies" are curtailed to a greater extent than are payments in "soft currencies". Although some countries have made considerable progress toward convertibil- ity, the inconvertibility of member countries' currencies con- tinues to be widespread. Multiple currency practices exist in about half of the 44 members surveyed, and there has been some extension of these practices, notably in Europe. For a few of these countries, the practices are of relatively little signifi- cance ; in most, however, the use of penalty selling rates, premium buying rates for the proceeds of exports, free markets, and simi- lar practices constitutes important aspects of their exchange systems. In addition to the member countries surveyed in Part II, other member countries, which are not availing themselves of the transitional arrangements under Article XIV of the Fund Agreement, employ quotas, discriminatory import restrictions, tariffs, and other similar policies, which also interfere with the free flow of international trade and significantly affect inter- national payments. Despite some similarity between the restrictive systems of different countries, there is, as noted, a widespread diversity in the practices of Fund members. Multiple currency practices of many types and a variety of other devices are employed either in isolation or in combination. Restrictions may apply in dif- ferent ways on imports and payments therefor, on invisibles, or on capital transactions. Authorized payments may take place quickly or may be subject to considerable delays. Substantial areas of international activity may be relatively free or all transactions and payments may be subject to restrictive licensing. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1952 CONSULTATIONS UNDER ARTICLE XIV 5 The purpose of many of the restrictions employed is to cope with balance of payments difficulties of the country imposing them. Some of the difficulties, however, are the result of measures in important export markets. Limitations on imports by one coun- try, through exchange or trade restrictions or other devices, re- strict the earnings of other countries and consequently may re- sult in the latter restricting their payments. Similarly, the in- convertibility of a country's earnings may lead it to discriminate in order to use its earnings in those areas where such use is possible and to avoid the accumulation of inconvertible surpluses. At the same time, however, restrictions may serve purposes other than the avoidance of balance of payments difficulties. For example, they may be important in protecting domestic industry, in facilitating price control or the domestic allocation of scarce materials, or in providing revenue for the national treasury. 3. Procedure of Consultations under Article XIV, Section 4 The consultations under Article XIV, Section 4, of the Fund Agreement began in March 1952. Preparatory work was started in the Fund during 1951. The fact that the consultations will be conducted with all but a few of the Fund's members means that the preparatory work and the discussion at various stages with the countries concerned will necessarily occupy a period of some months. As an initial step, the Fund's Executive Board in January 1952 adopted a procedure of consultations under Article XIV, Section 4, which was sent to members availing themselves of the transitional arrangements.2 Other general decisions on proce- dure might well be taken in the future. The Board recognized that the general procedures would be adapted from case to case depending, among other things, on the nature of any previous consultations with the country concerned. In all cases, however, it was felt that the consultation would cover both the detailed presentation of the restrictive system and the underlying fac- tors —national and international —affecting the necessity of fur- ther retention of such transitional arrangements. In the open- ing letter to member countries availing themselves of the transi- tional arrangements, the Managing Director expressed the Fund's hope that the consultations and the work preparatory 2 The text of this procedure as adopted by the Executive Board appears as Appendix II to this Report. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 6 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS thereto would result in a strengthening of its relations with mem- bers and contribute toward the attainment of the Fund's purposes. The first stage of the procedure of consultations adopted by the Executive Board covered the obtaining of necessary data. With respect to data on restrictive systems, the Fund staff pre- pared an Enquiry on Exchange Systems and Related Matters3 which was sent early in February to most members under Ar- ticle XIV. While the Enquiry concentrated mainly on exchange matters, some of the questions touched on related matters on which information is needed for a proper evaluation of exchange restrictions. The Fund has sought to reduce to a minimum the work falling upon member countries and, in most cases, tenta- tive answers to the questions were prepared in the Fund to be checked and supplemented by the member. The second stage in the procedure adopted was the analysis in the Fund of the technical aspects of the restrictive system of each member concerned and of the underlying factors affecting fu r- ther retention, supported by a general analysis of the country's economy. On this basis, the Fund staff would approach the third stage—discussions between the staff and representatives of the consulting member countries. These discussions would lay the basis for the formulation of recommendations for the consideration of the Executive Board. According to the plan of procedure, this and other phases of the consultations would take place in Washington, D. C., to the maximum extent possible. In discussing with a member country its restrictions inconsis- tent with Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, the Fund must be concerned with the country's needs and with the problems which it faces. The restrictive system employed by a member will be appraised in terms of that member's current policies and pro- grams as they relate to the member's obligations under Article XIV of the Fund Agreement. The Fund will be in a better posi- tion to develop constructive suggestions with regard to particu- lar restrictive practices if it can be informed whether its pro- posals will assist or handicap the country's general program. This background discussion, however, will be essentially explora- tory and designed to permit a helpful approach to the detailed consideration of the restrictions themselves. The discussion will develop the extent, if any, to which the member feels it necessary to retain exchange restrictions and its reasons for doing so. ' The Enqu iry is reproduced as Appendix III to this Report. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1952 CONSULTATIONS UNDER ARTICLE XIV 7 Many of the Fund's members have balance of payments diffi- culties which they seek to meet through the use of restrictions. These difficulties may take many forms. They may be of a structural character and may reflect the effects of disequilibria induced by World War II; they may result from or be aggra- vated by the existence of inconvertibility. In many countries, they are caused by or aggravated by inflation and programs of rearmament, particularly since the outbreak of hostilities in Korea, by disturbed political conditions, and other factors. For others, programs of economic development or social programs, e.g., the maintenance of minimum standards of nutrition, have created problems in achieving balance of payments equilibrium. In addition, there are countries where restrictions serve other than balance of payments purposes, as, for example, where a multiple currency practice serves primarily to produce revenue for the national treasury. In all these cases, there will be a survey of the country's needs and problems, and of the effects of its measures on the economies of other members, before any firm views are reached respecting the restrictions. The Fund is well aware (and the Articles themselves, e.g., Article VIII, were intended to recognize in a practical way) that for a number of countries the ability to relax exchange restric- tions depends upon measures taken by others, as well as upon a large number of difficult and complex factors operating in the country concerned. The Fund Agreement requires, however, that deviations from the requirements of Article VIII be of a transitional nature and that countries follow measures which are feasible to ensure that the use of exchange restrictions is minimized and made temporary. In working toward the Fund's objectives, member countries can reasonably expect the assistance of the Fund. Recognizing this, the procedure adopted by the Executive Board provided that, where appropriate, the consultations might include the consideration of arrangements, such as technical assistance, use of the Fund's resources, etc., by which the Fund might help the member concerned overcome the causes for the retention of the transitional arrangements. With these considerations in mind, it follows that a given con- sultation may cover, in relation to the member country's restric- tive system, such matters as the country's over-all and bilateral balance of payments position, the nature and extent of its inter- national reserves, the domestic situation in the country in its ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 8 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS relation to the balance of payments position and the measures being taken to bring greater stability, the effects of the use of restrictions on the country's international and domestic posi- tion, the external factors affecting the need for restrictions, the effects of possible relaxation of restrictions, the fu tu re prospects for relaxation of restrictions, and the ways and means of achiev- ing such relaxation, including Fund assistance. Consultation with the Executive Board will constitute the four th stage of the consultations under the procedure adopted. In this stage, the Executive Board will give consideration to the recommendations which the Fund's staff will submit on the basis of discussion with the member country. In the Executive Board consideration, the member will again be represented and will participate in the discussion if it so desires. Views or findings of the Executive Board will be appropriately notified to the member. 4. Status of Consultation Work At the time that this Report was prepared, much of the work preparatory to the 1952 consultations with member countries had been completed. As of May 30, 1952, the answers to the questions contained in the Enquiry on Exchange Systems and Related Matters had been checked or were in the process of being checked with 42 member countries. For the remaining 2, with which discussions were planned for later in the year, the preparation of the answers to the Enqu iry was proceeding in the Fund and it was antici- pated that the draft answers would be sent to the members within a short time. For 13 countries, the work in relation to the Enquiry was facilitated by visits to the countries concerned of technical Fund missions traveling in connection with other matters. 1 Preparatory work having been completed, discussions between the Fund staff and the representatives of the member countries had begun for the first group of countries. It was expected that consideration of this group by the Executive Board would begin in June. Consultations with at least a majority of mem- bers concerned are expected to have taken place by the time of the Conference of Governors in September. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution C. The Fund's Role in the 1952 Consultations under the GATT 1. Article XlV:l(g) of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade The General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade provides in Article XV, paragraph 2: "In all cases in which the CONTRACTING PARTIES [to the GATT] are called upon to consider or deal with problems concerning monetary reserves, balances of payments or foreign exchange arrangements, they shall consult fu l ly with the International Monetary Fund. . . . " The Fund is cooperat- ing with the Contracting Parties, pursuant to Article XV of the GATT, in connection with consultations required in accordance with GATT Article X IV : l (g) between the Contracting Parties and Governments which discriminate in the application of their restrictions under Article X IV : l ( c) or Annex J of the General Agreement (but not where such discrimination falls wholly under Article X l V r l ( b ) ) .1 In addition to involving coopera- 1 The requirement for annual consultation on the continuance of discrimi- nation is contained in GATT Article X IV : l ( g) which provides, in par t: "In March 1952, and in each year thereafter, any contracting party still en- titled to take action under the provisions of sub-paragraph (c) or of Annex J shall consult the CONTRACTING PARTIES as to any deviations from Article XIII [providing for non-discrimination] still in force pursuant to such provisions and as to its continued resort to such provisions." The nature of the discrimination possible under the General Agreement is indicated by the following quotation from page 15, paragraph 15, of a report published by the Contracting Parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, entitled The Use of Quantitative Import Restrictions to Safeguard Balances of Payments, Incorporating the Second Report on the Discriminatory Application of Import Restrictions, October 1951 (Geneva, November 1951): "Contracting parties applying import restrictions to safeguard their balance of payments are permitted under Article XIV [of the GATT] to follow one or the other of two sets of rules which limit the manner and extent of their deviations from the rule of non-discrimination. The first, called 'the Havana option', permits a contracting party under paragraph l ( b) of Article XIV to maintain discriminatory trade restrictions having an effect equivalent to exchange restrictions which it may at the time apply under the transitional period arrange- ments of the Articles of Agreement of the Fund, and under paragraph l ( c) to maintain (and adapt to changing circum- stances) any discrimination involved in balance-of-payment import re- strictions which were being applied on 1 March 1948, but which would not be covered by paragraph l ( b ). The second, contained in Annex J, called 'the Geneva option', permits the contracting parties which have elected to be governed by its pro- visions to administer their balance-of-payment import restrictions dis- criminatorily in such a way as to increase the total of their imports above 9 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 10 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS tion between the Fund and the Contracting Parties, these GATT consultations had a direct bearing on the order of countries for which the Fund had to plan for its consultations under Article XIV, Section 4, of the Fund Agreement. In the procedure of consultations adopted by the Executive Board, it was stated that the order of countries would be worked out in contact with the Executive Directors concerned, with due regard to the under- standing that the corresponding consultations conducted by the Contracting Parties, wherever relevant, would take place after the Fund had completed its consultations with the countries con- cerned. This understanding resulted from the procedure for the conduct of the GATT consultations, which is outlined below. GATT consultations under Article X IV : l (g) are expected with Ceylon, Southern Rhodesia, the Union of South Africa, and the United Kingdom, the four contracting parties with respect to which the discriminatory application of restrictions falls under Annex J. Consultations are also expected with certain contract- ing parties governed by Article X IV : l ( b) and l ( c ), while there is another group of countries which have indicated that their discrimination falls wholly under Article X IV : l ( b) so that Article X IV : l (g) consultations are not expected. "Thus the whole field of discriminatory import restrictions maintained by any contracting party under paragraph 1 of Article XIV (in- cluding Annex J) will, commencing in March 1952, either come under annual consultation with the CONTRACTING PARTIES, or, alternatively [for discrimination under Article X IV : l ( b ) ], will the level which could be obtained if restrictions were applied without dis- crimination between sources of supply. For the sake of simplification it may be said that, subject to stated conditions and limitations, Article XII permits a government to determine what and how much will be imported, while Article XIV [which also contains a reference to Annex J] permits it to determine where the goods for importation will be bought." The report notes, however, that the above paragraph contains a mere para- phrasing of the provisions of the General Agreement and should not be used as a basis for considering the consistency of any particular import practice with the terms of the Agreement; for that purpose direct reference to the terms of the Agreement itself would be essential. A fu r ther provision is contained in Article X I V : l ( f) of the General Agreement which states: "A contracting party may deviate from the provisions of Article X I II [providing for non-discrimination], pursuant to sub-paragraphs (6) or (c) of this paragraph or pursuant to Annex J, only so long as it is avail- ing itself of the post-war transitional period arrangements under Article XIV of the Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund, or of an analogous provision of a special exchange agreement entered into [with the Contracting Parties] under paragraph 6 of Article XV." ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FUND'S ROLE IN 1952 CONSULTATIONS UNDER GATT 11 be affected by annual consultations between the Fund and its members in the related field of exchange restrictions." 2 In October 1951, during their Sixth Session in Geneva, the Contracting Parties adopted the procedure for the consultations required under GATT Article X IV : l ( g ). Any contracting party still entitled to take action under the provisions of Article X IV : l ( c) or of Annex J was requested to enter into consulta- tions with the Contracting Parties by March 15, 1952, by advis- ing that it was initiating consultations and furn ish ing informa- tion including details of the measures involved. It was further set out that the Fund should be invited to participate in consul- tations with the Contracting Parties in pursuance of GATT Article XV. The consultations are to be included in the provi- sional agenda for the Seventh Session. In setting forth the procedure, the Contracting Parties ex- pressed the opinion that a consultation instituted pursuant to GATT Article X IV : l (g) could be concluded more effectively at the Seventh Session, if, before the end of that Session, the Fund made available to the Contracting Parties the results of its con- sultations with the country concerned under Article XIV of the Fund Agreement. Information as to the progress of the Fund consultations would assist the Contracting Parties in determin- ing, at the Seventh Session, the order in which to conclude, in 1952, the consultations instituted pursuant to Article XIV : l(g) of the General Agreement. The Seventh Session of the Contracting Parties is scheduled to be held in Geneva, beginning on October 2, 1952. Meanwhile, the staff of the Fund and the Secretariat of the Contracting Parties are maintaining close contact to facilitate the coopera- tion of the Fund with respect to the consultations under GATT Article X IV : l ( g ). 2. Article XI:3 of the Special Exchange Agreements Any contracting party to the GATT which is not a member of the Fund is required by GATT Article XV :6 either to jo in the Fund or to enter into a special exchange agreement with the Contracting Parties. These special exchange agreements, which so far have been concluded with Haiti and Indonesia, 2 The 1951 report of the Contracting Parties to the General Agreement on Ta r i f fs and Trade (cited above, footnote 1, p. 9), p. 31, para. 54. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 12 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS involve obligations in respect of exchange rates and exchange restrictions similar to those contained in the Fund Agreement. In Article XI, paragraph 3, of these special exchange agreements it is provided, among other things, tha t: "Not later than March 1, 1952, and in each year thereafter, if the Government of still retains any restrictions inconsistent with article VII or X, it shall consult with the CONTRACTING PARTIES as to their fur ther retention." Articles VII and X of these agreements contain provisions similar to those of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. The special ex- change agreements thus contain a provision for consultations on exchange restrictions similar to that in Article XIV, Section 4, of the Fund Agreement. At their Sixth Session, the Contracting Parties also considered the matter of procedure with respect to these 1952 consultations on the retention of exchange restrictions. Further procedural details have subsequently been arranged between the Contract- ing Parties and the Fund. As the Contracting Parties did not expect to be in session In March 1952, arrangements were made for the initiation of such consultations on the basis of inter- sessional procedural arrangements. It was provided that a gov- ernment required to consult should notify the Chairman of the Contracting Parties, not later than March 1, 1952, that it was initiating such consultation. The Chairman would then refer the matter to the Fund for its consideration.3 The report and, where appropriate, determinations of the Fund would be submitted to the Chairman and thence to the contracting parties. In the conduct of these consultations, the Fund has agreed to afford an opportunity to any Government concerned to present its case directly to the Fund. Further, a contracting party may take advantage of Article XIII :5 (b) of its special exchange agreement and initiate direct consultation with the Fund. The Fund has agreed to being so consulted and has undertaken, upon being informed of the wish for such direct consultation, to arrange with the contracting party matters such as time, place, and the fu rn ish ing of information. The Fund has also agreed. 8 Article XV: 2 of the General Agreement provides, in part, that "the CONTRACTING PARTIES . . . shall accept the determination of the Fund as to whether action by a contracting party in exchange matters is in accordance with the Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund, or with the terms of a special exchange agreement between that contracting party and the CONTRACTING PARTIES." ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FUND'S ROLE IN 1952 CONSULTATIONS UNDER GATT 13 for both types of consultation, to submit a report, and where appropriate, any determination to the Contracting Parties. The procedure adopted at the Sixth Session of the Contracting Parties provided, finally, that a consultation initiated under either procedural arrangement would be concluded at the Seventh Session, unless an earlier conclusion were considered necessary, in which case a special session would be convened. 3. Other GATT Consultations in 1952 In addition to the consultations during 1952 under Article X IV : l (g) of the General Agreement and under Article XI of the special exchange agreements, consultations have been ar- ranged under GATT Article X I I : 4 ( b) on the intensification of import restrictions by certain countries, and under Article XXIII as a result of a complaint against the measures under- taken by Belgium to restrict dollar imports. In all of these cases, the Contracting Parties are consulting the Fund pursuant to Article XV of the General Agreement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution D. Concluding Observations In the Fund's 1951 Annual Report, it was stated: "In the forthcoming consultations, the Fund will give full weight to the needs and problems of its members as well as to the effects of their actions on the international community and to the Fund's objectives as set forth in the Articles of Agreement." The Fund brings to the consultations a spirit of cooperation and a desire to be constructive and understanding. It sees the initiation of the consultations as the beginning of a process through which there can be provided not only a review with the countries con- cerned of the restrictions now being used but also the means of the Fund's obtaining a better understanding of the situation in the member countries on which the basis may be laid for closer international collaboration and cooperation in the monetary field. During these consultations it is hoped that in many cases ways and means may be found for adapting or eliminating restrictions and for assisting members in overcoming the basic financial and economic difficulties leading to the use of restrictions. 14 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT II ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution A. Introduction Part II of this Report consists of a general review of develop- ments in restrictions during 1951 and early 1952, and a series of Country Surveys in which brief reviews are given c>f the restric- tive systems of member countries availing themselves of the transitional arrangements under Article XIV, Section 2, of the Fund Agreement. Countries which have accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement (and for which no country survey is included) are Canada, El Salva- dor, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Panama, and the United States. As in the First and Second Annual Reports on Exchange Restrictions, the exchange controls and restrictions of Belgium and Luxembourg are surveyed jointly and, with the exception of Hong Kong, separate surveys have not been prepared for the non-metropolitan territories of members of the Fund. In preparing the country surveys, it was necessary to set a cut-off date beyond which changes in restrictive systems would not be recorded. Therefore, as a general rule, the surveys review the exchange controls and restrictions in force on December 31, 1951. In addition, each survey includes a brief chronological statement of the major changes during 1951. However, any particularly significant changes in 1952 are cited in footnotes. As in previous Reports, the country surveys are based essen- tially upon the formal characteristics of the restrictive systems of member countries. In practice, the effectiveness and severity of the controls and restrictions are largely dependent on their administrative application rather than only on their formal nature. Because the general character of recent developments is difficult to determine from the mere listing of the formal changes in various countries, it has been considered desirable to include a section (Section B) which sets forth the developments in restrictions during 1951 and early 1952, indicating broadly the nature of the changes which have been taking place. This facili- tates consideration of general trends which may be observed and of developments affecting more than one country. Also, Section B carries the review of developments beyond December 31, 1951, the cut-off date of the country surveys. In both the country surveys and the general review, the attempt has been to consider restrictive systems in their entirety. Member countries may operate restrictions under Article VIII 17 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 18 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS of the Fund Agreement as well as under the transitional period arrangements of Article XIV, and restrictions under these two articles have, of course, similar effects. Completeness requires that restrictions under both Articles be covered. Exchange con- trols and regulations in respect to capital transfers are also noted, although Article VI, Section 3, provides that such controls may be exercised by members if they do not restrict payments for current transactions or unduly delay transfers of funds in settle- ment of commitments. Similarly, coverage is not limited to a narrow consideration of exchange restrictions. The practices described include those closely linked to the exchange system but, in general, do not include such elements as import duties. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution B. Developments in Restrictions 1. Introduction There were very few countries in which some significant development in exchange controls and restrictions did not take place during 1951 and the first months of 1952. In general terms, it may be said that during the earlier part of this period there was a tendency toward relaxation in the application of restric- tions. However, in the latter part of the period, there was a noticeable tendency to intensify exchange and trade restrictions in certain parts of the world. In contrast to this tendency is the action of Canada in abolishing its entire exchange control system and accepting the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement.1 In addition, Ecuador, Lebanon, Nicaragua, and Peru have been able, during this period, to achieve a considerable degree of freedom from exchange con- trols and restrictions, other than multiple currency practices. If allowance is made for its list of prohibited imports, Colombia might also be added to this group. The world situation following the outbreak of hostilities in Korea gave rise to intensive competitive bidding for raw mate- rials on the part of many governments and commercial concerns, with the result that prices rose sharply from the middle of 1950 to the spring of 1951. Since then there has been a distinct slow- ing down in the volume of purchases of many basic materials and a consequent decline in prices from their earlier peaks, although for most of 1951 both demand and price for primary commodities continued, in general, well above the levels of mid- 1950. The demand for machinery and capital goods was sus- tained throughout the year, but some markets for consumer goods showed signs of being overloaded by the end of the year. The world situation directly or indirectly led practically every country to increase its control over exports by the introduction of, or by an increase in, export licensing. Most countries have used this as the means to implement the United Nations General 1 Canada abolished its exchange control system on December 14, 1951. In view of its subsequent notification of the acceptance of the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, Canada has been omitted from the list of countries in Section C. A description of the exchange system of Canada as of December 31, 1950 can be found on pages 57-59 of the Second Annual Re- port on Exchange Restrictions. On Janua ry 2, 1951, practically all im- port restrictions were removed (see p. 32 of the Second Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions). 19 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 20 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Assembly resolution of May 18, 1951, on the selective embargo of strategic materials to "areas under the control of the Central People's Government of the People's Republic of China and of the North Korean authorities." In addition, export licensing has been used to control the distribution, usually on the basis of allocations, of strategic materials and other goods which are in world short supply. When such action is taken by a country which has a predominant position in the export of a particular item, importing countries in their turn may, as a result, intro- duce or impose additional import licensing in order to ensure that the raw materials, etc., are correctly utilized in their terri- tory and that they do not fall into the hands of persons interested in taking advantage of any shortage in the supply of such items. 2. Developments in the Application of Restrictions In Europe during the period under review intra-European payments executed through the European Payments Union (EPU) mechanism caused an increasing strain on certain mem- bers of EPU. By the end of 1951, Belgium-Luxembourg, Italy, Portugal, and Switzerland had emerged as large creditors, and France and the United Kingdom as the two largest debtors, in the monthly EPU settlements. All these countries took measures affecting their relations with other EPU countries to counteract the continuing tendency for them to come into an extreme posi- tion within the EPU either as creditor or as debtor. Some of these measures were of a restrictive character and mostly aimed, in the case of creditor countries, at limiting exports to other EPU countries 2 and, in the case of debtor countries, at limiting im- ports from other EPU countries. Among the countries named above as being in the EPU creditor group, only Italy appears to have avoided taking any restrictive measures to reduce its surplus with EPU. Italy and also Belgium encouraged imports from other EPU countries by liberalizing their trade with other EPU countries (98 per cent in the case of Italy, and 90 per cent in the case of Belgium). Italy also reduced its tar iffs on EPU imports by 10 per cent. In addition to these arrangements, these two countries provided special loan facilities at reduced interest rates to those importing from other EPU countries. a In this part of the Report, the expression "EPU countries" is to be read as including their associated territories, where this is appropriate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIONS 21 Switzerland, in December 1951, restricted the volume of ex- ports, but this was achieved through the cooperation of Swiss exporting industries without invoking restrictive legislative measures. Advance payments, in respect of exports, received through the system of controlled payments, were made subject to the prior approval of the Swiss authorities. Portugal, at the end of February 1952, blocked 30 per cent of the export proceeds of certain specified Portuguese exports to other EPU countries and declared that these funds would be released to the owners as and when Portugal's surplus in the EPU settlement declined. Belgium-Luxembourg also introduced a series of measures de- signed to cope with a surplus in the EPU settlement. Restric- tions were imposed upon the purchase of certain goods involving directly or indirectly payment in U.S. or Canadian dollars. All payments from EPU countries were made subject to stricter supervision, and exports to EPU countries were restricted. In addition, limitations have been removed on the amount of ex- change available for payments to other EPU countries in respect of invisibles and capital items. A new feature was introduced in Belgium-Luxembourg on September 17, 1951, primarily to facilitate the internal financing of the EPU surplus. This was a requirement that 5 per cent of the proceeds of exports to EPU countries exceeding Bfr 20,000 had to be withheld and these funds would not be made available to the owner until six months later. This applied to the proceeds received in domestic currency from nonresident accounts related to EPU countries as well as to the proceeds of EPU currencies sold to authorized banks. Four months later, this percentage was raised to 7.5 per cent and 10 per cent, respectively, for certain commodities. In March 1952, new percentages were introduced up to 25 per cent, and the withholding requirement was made applicable to receipts from EPU countries in respect of capital and income on capital, from which 40 per cent was to be with- held. At the same time, arrangements were announced by which blocked account holders could obtain immediate use of their funds by negotiating them with an authorized bank or using them as collateral. In October 1951, Belgian-Luxembourg ex- porters were required to obtain a permit to sell the foreign exchange proceeds of exports expressed in currencies of EPU countries to an authorized bank at the official rate. Such ex- porters were, however, authorized to sell these currencies to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 22 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS other residents and to use them for the settlement of their debts abroad. Subsequent regulations prohibited the use of such hold- ings for payment for imports and most invisible items due to residents in EPU countries, so that the use of such funds was confined mainly to payments for tourism and capital. In Novem- ber, small export taxes were applied to certain commodities exported to any destination. For exports to the Netherlands, these taxes were reduced later to a flat 1 per cent. In March 1952, all exports paid for in Canadian or U.S. dollars were exempted from these taxes. In February 1952, France suspended the liberalization meas- ures which had been applied to imports from other EPU coun- tries, and subjected all imports to individual import licensing. Until June 1951, France permitted free transfers among the accounts of residents of all EPU countries, but then this facility was withdrawn, and all transfers between accounts of diiferent nationality were again made subject to the individual approval of the French Exchange Control authorities. The Federal Republic of Germany established as from Jan- uary 1, 1952 a new system to control the expenditure of exchange in respect of imports. The new system requires importers of essential goods to apply in the first place for a "purchase author- ization" before concluding any contract with a foreign seller. When the contract is concluded, application has to be made for a combined import- and payment-license which is normally issued if the purchase contract conforms to the general import regulations and the terms of the "purchase authorization." Effective April 1, 1952, the Federal Republic of Germany established a procedure by which German exporters would be credited with import rights to the extent of 40 per cent of their gross export proceeds obtained in freely disposable U.S. dollars or free Swiss francs. Exporters are allowed to utilize these special rights for the import of some 80 items considered essential for the domestic economy. These rights are transferable but lapse if not utilized within three months. The Federal Republic of Germany continues to operate other export incentive arrange- ments, by which exporters are permitted to use specified per- centages of their export proceeds to effect certain imports. Arrangements of this type in some other Western European countries, such as France and the Netherlands, have continued in operation dur ing the period under review. Operations of a similar kind on an ad hoc basis have been introduced in Sweden. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIONS 23 Both Denmark and Finland during 1951 withdrew special taxes imposed on exchange granted for travel purposes. Iceland, on March 8, 1951, introduced an arrangement by which the exporters of certain products of the small fishing boat industries could, in respect of a percentage of their export pro- ceeds, obtain a premium from importers desiring to import certain listed goods. The structure was made more complicated by the use of fixed premiums which d i f fer according to whether the transactions are concerned with EPU and dollar area coun- tries or with certain countries with which Iceland has clearing agreements. Spain, on November 1, 1951, established a single export rate and listed various export commodities in five groups with a designated percentage of the export proceeds to be sold in the free market. In conjunction with the abolition of the export proceeds retention arrangements, this had the effect of con- siderably reducing the number of export rates. Greece abolished, in June 1951, the previously-existing ex- change certificate system and incorporated the certificate rate, which had been fixed for some time, into the official rate. The United Kingdom has considerably reduced the original long list of commodities free from individual import licensing if imported from countries other than those in the dollar area and certain Eastern European and other countries. The recent inten- sification of import restrictions in the United Kingdom has been in two main stages. The first stage can be dated from November 7, 1951 when the Chancellor of the Exchequer announced that there would be a cut in private imports involving the reimposi- tion of quota restrictions as applied to certain imports from other EPU countries. The second stage can be dated from the Chancellor's statement of January 20, 1952, announcing that fu r ther reductions would be made in the United Kingdom's external expenditures. This saving was to be effected by reduc- ing expenditures on invisibles and by other measures, including a fur ther reduction in the purchase abroad of foodstuffs and raw materials. Certain other countries in the Sterling Area are taking steps to reduce their external expenditures. At the close of a Confer- ence of Commonwealth Finance Ministers, held in London in January 1952, the Ministers issued a statement3 expressing their 8 The complete text of this statement is attached to this Report as Appen- dix IV. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 24 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS recognition of the seriousness of the crisis, their confidence that the situation could be remedied, and their conviction that not only restrictive but also constructive measures were required. The Ministers stated that for the second half of 1952 it was necessary for the Sterling Area as a whole to be brought into balance with the rest of the world, including at least a balance with the dollar area. They agreed that any country in the Sterling Area likely to be in over-all deficit should take immediate corrective measures in order to relieve the current pressure on the Sterling Area as a whole. The methods by which this was to be achieved were left to the individual countries concerned, although it was emphasized that the first and most important step was to ensure that the internal economy was sound and that all possible measures were taken to combat inflation. To the extent to which other methods did not achieve the fully desired results, the statement added that it would be necessary, as a temporary measure, to reduce imports. Such emergency measures would not, however, provide a solution to the Sterling Area's problems. The statement went on to express the importance of sterling being made freely convertible into all the main currencies of the world unsupported by restric- tions on imports. To this end, it would be necessary that for some years to come the Sterling Area should be in surplus with the rest of the world, including a surplus with the dollar area. The opportunities for an early increase in the productive powers of the Sterling Area countries would be examined with the idea of increasing their production of food, raw materials, and other essential goods. The United Kingdom has stated that its new measures would mainly affect imports from EPU countries and other non-sterling non-dollar countries. The second stage in the United Kingdom's import reduction program was accompanied on January 30, 1952 by a reduction from £50 to £25 per person in the annual basic exchange allowance for United Kingdom tourists to "soft cur- rency" countries. The first stage had already accounted on November 7, 1951 for a reduction in the same allowance from £100 to £50. Australia, on March 7, 1952, made practically all imports sub- ject to individual import licensing, whereas previously this requirement had applied only to imports from the dollar area and a few other countries that were included for special reasons. Australia also announced that imports from non-dollar sources— including the Sterling Area —would now be limited to various ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIONS 25 percentages based on imports in the year 1950-51 with the inten- tion of achieving an over-all reduction of 50 per cent. New Zealand throughout 1951 had pursued an increasingly liberal policy toward imports from non-dollar countries, so that by the end of the year individual import licensing was, in general, applicable only to dollar imports. However, by the terms of a statement issued on March 31,1952, it was announced that during 1952 trading banks in New Zealand would not sell an importer more than 80 per cent of the exchange sold to that importer during 1950 except with approval of the Reserve Bank. The Union of South Africa also in March 1952 announced that the amount of exchange to be made available for imports during 1952 would be limited to £SA 400 million (imports in 1951 were £SA 466 million). As a part of this plan, the exchange quota for imports of consumer goods, which in 1951 had been limited to 60 per cent of the value of such imports in 1948, would be reduced to 40 per cent in 1952. Southern Rhodesia on December 19, 1951 extended its import licensing, previously applicable only to dollar imports, to cover imports from all countries outside the Sterling Area. India and Pakistan, by a series of measures in 1951, restored more normal trade and exchange relations between each other. At the same time, exchange and trade control were established over transactions between them. These measures are gradually achieving a standard comparable to that which these two coun- tries (allowing for the special circumstances arising out of their propinquity) maintain toward other territories in the Sterling Area. Ceylon, in 1951, extended, for both dollar sources and non- dollar sources, the lists of commodities which could be imported without individual import licenses and without restrictions as to amount. As from September 18, 1951, facilities for making private remittances from Ceylon to the Sterling Area were con- siderably expanded. In the Middle and Far East there appears generally to have been, in the period under review, a tendency toward increased restrictions. Syria adopted a stricter control over its trade and payments. Both Syria and Iraq have added items to their lists of prohibited imports. In Israel, a multiple rate structure consist- ing of three rates applicable to specified categories of transactions became effective February 14, 1952. Iran had, until December 1951, two fixed exchange certificate rates, the preferential rate ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 26 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS being applicable to essential imports, and the other to all export proceeds and to other imports and invisibles. The rates for these certificates were maintained at fixed levels by action of the Iranian Government. However, after the cessation of oil royal- ties, imports were severely restricted and the two certificate rates were replaced by a single fluctuating market rate applicable to all but government transactions. On the other hand, Lebanon, as from January 29, 1952, eliminated one of its effective buying rates by abolishing a 10 per cent surrender requirement at the official rate applicable to certain transactions. Indonesia at the beginning of 1951 had an exchange system in which, by the use of exchange certificates at fixed rates and in fixed proportions, most purchases of exchange were effected at a single rate, while most exchange sales were effected at another single rate considerably removed from the buying rate. There was a small use of "inducement certificates" for exporters of certain native products. On March 5,1951, however, an arrange- ment was introduced by which the "inducement certificates," which were in effect licenses to import certain goods not other- wise importable, could be purchased from the Indonesian authori- ties at a price fixed at 200 per cent of the official selling price of the foreign exchange. In this way, a further effective selling rate was introduced. On February 4,1952, however, the exchange certificates were abolished and replaced by "export certificates" whose use was confined to dollar transactions. The Philippine Republic, as from March 28,1951, imposed a 17 per cent tax on all sales of foreign exchange, except sales of exchange for some essential items and certain invisibles which are either exempted from the tax or the tax for which is refunded. In some countries of Latin America, restrictions have been relaxed by the removal of direct restrictions on imports, and in others by such removal together with a simplification of the multiple rate structure. Colombia, on March 20,1951, completely revised its import and exchange control system. Practically all licensing requirements were removed; exchange certificates were eliminated, and as a result the mixed rates based thereon disappeared. The effect was a considerable simplification of the exchange rate structure, which on the selling side is now dependent on a single rate to which, however, three different minor stamp taxes are applied for various transactions; on the buying side all transactions now take place at a single rate, with the exception of the proceeds of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIONS 27 coffee exports. For these, however, the applicable rate is being increased on a monthly basis until it reaches the un iform buying rate applied to all other transactions. In Costa Rica, the abolition in June and September 1951 of the surcharges on sales of exchange has reduced the multiple rate structure to only two rates, the official and the free market, for all transactions. The removal of surcharges was facilitated by changes in the tariff structure. In many Latin American countries, the list of prohibited imports is of considerable significance. This is particularly so in countries where imports not prohibited are free of any restric- tion as to amoun t; but the practical significance of a prohibited list is diminished in a country in which there is another category of imports, namely those subject to administrative decision, which may, in many cases, be an effective complete or partial prohibi- tion. It is not intended to indicate here for every country all the details of the changes which have been made in the list of pro- hibited imports. It may be noted, however, that Paraguay in March 1951 introduced a prohibited list, and that Chile and Colombia are examples of countries which have revised their lists during the period under review. In certain Latin American countries, laws affecting foreign investment have received attention. A new decree setting forth the exchange control conditions attaching to foreign investment was issued in Colombia on August 3,1951; and Brazil, in January 1952, amended an earlier law for the protection of foreign invest- ments. This law limited amortization payments at the official rate of exchange to 20 per cent, and interest payments to 8 per cent, per annum; through supplementary banking regulations foreign companies had been able to increase the amount of capital registered with the Brazilian authorities to the extent that profits were not remitted, and to remit in subsequent years profits at 8 per cent on the larger capital. The amendment of January 1952 conforms to a strict interpretation of the former decree, restrict- ing the latitude of the ensuing banking regulations, so that the amount remittable under the decree is now calculable only as a percentage on the foreign capital actually imported, reduced by the amount of previous amortization payments. Bolivia, on July 12, 1951, introduced an additional exchange tax of Bs 1 per U. S. dollar on most payments, bringing the total tax on most payments to Bs 3 per U. S. dollar. Paraguay, on March 5, 1951, removed previously-existing taxes of 2, 5, and 10 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 28 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS per cent on sales of exchange and simplified its multiple rate structure, reducing the number of effective rates to three. Brazil, which has maintained for some years a 5 per cent exchange tax for practically all payments abroad, introduced legislation during 1951 to augment the existing tax by an additional 3 per cent; this legislation became effective January 1,1952. By November 1951, Brazil had almost eliminated the delay between granting an exchange license and actually providing the exchange in respect of preferential and first category imports, but since then the delay has lengthened to several weeks. At the time this Report was prepared, no dollar exchange had been granted since Septem- ber 23, 1951 for the remittance of profits on foreign capital. Effective February 28, 1952, Ecuador abolished its compensa- tion system, by which the proceeds of certain minor exports as well as a percentage of the proceeds of some other exports could be used to finance certain luxury imports, and the mixed rates which this system involved were thereby eliminated. The financing of minor exports and luxury imports previously trans- acted on this basis was transferred to the existing free market. This arrangement had the effect of reducing the multiple rate structure to two rates —the official and the free market. Argentina, which in August 1950 had simplified its exchange rate structure to three operating levels, re-introduced on Feb- ruary 20, 1952 the use of mixing rates for certain transactions, thus creating fur ther effective rates. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution C. Country Surveys Explanatory Note on Terminology In the descriptions of exchange controls and restrictions in member countries, a standardized pattern has been followed wherever practicable. This consists of a uniform presentation of the restrictive features of each system, using as far as possible a consistent terminology for describing similar practices. As a result, in many cases, this terminology is not necessarily that employed in the particular country concerned. Furthermore, since the purpose of these country surveys is essentially to describe existing restrictive systems and changes which have taken place during 1951, the terminology is not intended to relate to the member countries' obligations and responsibilities under the Fund's Articles of Agreement.1 In the interest of standardization, each country survey is divided into the following sections: Date of Introduction, Nature of Restrictive System, Exchange Rates, Exchange Payments (with subdivisions), Exchange Receipts (with subdivisions), and Changes during 1951. In a few country surveys, additional sections have been included on Exchange Control Territory, Non- resident Accounts, and Foreign Banknotes. Under Date of Introduction, the dates when exchange controls and restrictions were originally introduced and when last they were significantly revised are cited. These dates serve to indicate the period of the existence of exchange restrictions, without attempting a complete historical review of exchange controls and restrictions. Under Nature of Restrictive System, the essential features of the restrictive system, particularly those applying to trade and invisibles, are briefly described. Multiple currency practices on the selling and buying sides, where they exist, and requirements concerning export proceeds and export licensing are also men- tioned. Under Exchange Rates, the par value, where one has been agreed with the Fund, is expressed in terms of United States dollars, and the official buying and selling rates, if any, are quoted 1 Similarly, the inclusion of a restriction, or a change of restriction, in this Report is not to be taken as indicating that the Fund necessarily regards as desirable, or has given specific approval to, the restriction or change described. 29 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 30 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS in most cases in the same manner. General remarks are also made wherever applicable concerning the important features of the exchange rate system. The surveys of member countries with several effective rates of exchange include a more detailed tabulation of these rates and their applicability under the sep- arate section, Table of Exchange Rates, toward the end of the particular survey. The buying and selling rates quoted are those effective as of the end of 1951, unless otherwise noted. Under Exchange Payments, the restrictions applied to inter- national payments are described. The term "import license" is used to describe individual permits granted by the trade authorities to effect the importation of a given commodity. When it is stated that only certain imports require import licenses, it is to be understood that all other imports are free of restrictions of this type, unless otherwise explained. In various countries, the legislation concerned uses different technical terms, such as "free lists" or "open general licenses," to describe arrangements whereby imports and other international transactions are exempt from the restrictive application of the licensing requirements. In the interest of uniformity, such arrangements are referred to by the standard expression, "certain imports (or other transac- tions) are freely permitted." Differences in restrictions as applied to imports from different countries are indicated, and in several cases additional detail is given in a footnote. Although this is not expressly stated in each case, it is to be understood that payments between those countries or monetary areas having bilateral pay- ments arrangements must be made in accordance with the terms of such arrangements and that this requirement is enforced on the residents of the countries concerned as part of the exchange control system. Where the word "appropriate" is used, in such expressions as "exchange appropriate to the country of the recipient" or "an account appropriate to the country of destina- tion," it is to be understood that payments or receipts must be in the form prescribed in the exchange control regulations of the country whose system is being surveyed. The term "exchange license" is used to describe the individual permits granted by the exchange authorities to effect exchange payments. Where exchange payments for invisibles are exempt from individual permits, or can be freely effected by specified categories of residents or in specified currencies without any limitation or up to certain limits, the standard expression "for- eign exchange is freely granted up to certain limits" or its ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 31 appropriate equivalent is used. Differences in national termi- nology have been avoided. In relation to capital payments, the term "require approval" is used to express the fact that permits are necessary to effect such payments on behalf of either residents or nonresidents. The term "approval" has a broader meaning than "licenses," as it may include special conditions connected with the transfer of capital. Where transfers of dividends, interest, and other investment income are very closely connected with transfers of capital, they are discussed in the section on capital, and the expression "regis- tered capital" used in the Tables of Exchange Rates may cover both the amortization of capital and income thereon, to the extent provided for by the capital registration arrangements. Under Exchange Receipts, special requirements relating to exchange proceeds of exports, invisibles, and capital are described. Where the exchange control regulations include special requirements that the proceeds must be obtained in a prescribed manner, an expression such as "the exchange proceeds of exports must be received in an appropriate currency or from an appro- priate nonresident account" is used. The term "surrender" is used to denote the compulsory sale of exchange proceeds at specified rates of exchange against local currency. In some coun- tries, the "surrender" of exchange proceeds is not required, but these proceeds may not be retained indefinitely or used for international payments without specific license. Alternatively, it may be required that certain exchange proceeds be sold in a free market. These cases are specifically mentioned in the country surveys. Under Exchange Control Territory, the extent of applicability of a given national system of exchange controls and restrictions is explained when it covers two or more sovereign or autonomous territories and when a resident of one country is treated as a resident of another country for the purposes of exchange control. Under Nonresident Accounts, special arrangements governing payments through the accounts of nonresidents are described where they play an important part in settling payments between nonresidents. In two country surveys, a section on Foreign Banknotes is added to outline special provisions relating to their use in international transactions. Under Changes during 1951, the more significant changes which took place in the restrictive systems during 1951 are pre- sented in chronological order. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 32 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS The terms "resident" and "nonresident" have been used throughout the country surveys, even though the regulations of certain countries refer to "exchange nationals" and "exchange foreigners," or similar designations. In general, countries apply these terms on the basis of the normal domicile or the active place of business of the individual or legal entity concerned, but other criteria, such as nationality and length of residence, may also be taken into account. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA Date of Introduction August 28, 1939. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through licenses required for imports from certain countries1 and through licenses required for nontrade payments; exchange is granted for imports and non- trade payments authorized by these licenses. Foreign exchange from exports must be surrendered. Exchange receipts from invisibles and capital in U. S. dollars, or Canadian dollars in banknote or check form, must be surrendered. Practically all exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par va lue: Australian Pound 1 = US$2.24. There are no official rates for the U.S. dollar. Banks in Australia quote their own U.S. dollar rates, but these are determined by market quota- tions in New York and London. There are official rates in Aus- tralia for pounds sterling: buying £A 125, selling £A 125/10/— per £100. The market rate in Australia for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1951 was: buying US$2.2240, selling US$2.2198 per £A 1. Exchange Payments Payments to other parts of the Sterling Area must be effected in a Sterling Area currency. Payments to outside the Sterling Area must be effected either in the foreign exchange appropriate to the country or monetary area of the recipient, or by crediting the appropriate sterling account of a nonresident of the Sterling Area or the account with an Australian bank of a bank in the country concerned. Imports from "hard currency" countries2 require Imports. 1 Effective March 8, 1952, import licensing was extended to cover imports from all countries. Import licenses would be issued on percentage quotas based on previous imports in the base year 1950-51 for imports not pre- viously covered by licensing requirements. The basis for issuing licenses for imports f rom "hard currency" countries remained unchanged. 2"H a rd currency" countries are listed as follows: Argentina, Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Iran, Japan, Mexico, Nicaragua, North Korea, Panama, Philippine Republic, Russian Zone of Germany, United States and possessions, U.S.S.R., and Venezuela. 33 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 34 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS import licenses. Imports f rom other countries are, in general, free of import license.3 Exchange is automatically granted for authorized imports. Invisibles. Payments abroad require licenses. Foreign ex- change is freely granted for expenses incidental to trade transac- tions, transfers abroad of dividends, and other earnings due to nonresidents. Foreign exchange for other payments to countries other than "hard currency" coun t r ies4 is freely granted up to specified limits. Capital. Transfers of capital require approval. Exchange Receipts Exports. Practically all exports require licenses. The proceeds of exports to other parts of the Sterling Area must be received from a sterling account or in the exchange of the territory of destination or in Australian currency from the account of a bank domiciled in the Sterling Area (except Australia). The proceeds of exports to countries outside the Sterling Area must be received in the foreign exchange appropriate to the country or monetary area related to the destination of the export, in sterling from the appropriate sterling account of a nonresident of the Sterling Area, or in Australian currency from the account of a bank domiciled in the country or monetary area related to the destina- tion of the export. Foreign exchange receipts must be sur- rendered. Invisibles. Exchange receipts in U.S. dollars, or Canadian dollars in banknote or check form, must be surrendered. All other exchange may be retained but its disposal requires license. Permission is given for foreign exchange to be retained on con- trolled accounts where it is required for operating purposes. Capital. Investments of persons residing outside the Sterling Area must be made in foreign exchange appropriate to their country or sterling from an appropriate account. Exchange receipts from capital in U.S. dollars, or Canadian dollars in banknote or check form, must be surrendered. 8 See footnote 1. * See footnote 2. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA 35 Changes during 1951 December 18 The quotation of official rates for the U.S. dollar was discon- tinued. Banks were free to quote their own U.S. dollar rates, but these would be determined by market quotations in New York and London. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA Date of Introduction October 9, 1931. Reintroduced after the war, July 25, 1946. The exchange rate system was revised November 25, 1949 and October 5,1950. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through licenses required for imports and nontrade payments, and through penalty selling rates for invisibles and capital items; exchange is granted for imports and nontrade payments authorized by these licenses. Foreign exchange must be surrendered. A multiple currency practice results on the buying side from the application of the premium exchange rate to noncommercial invisibles and capital items. Some exports require licenses. Exchange Rates No par value for the Schilling. Official commercial rates: buying S 21.23, selling S 21.49 per US$1.1 There are premium rates of buying S 25.87 and selling S 26.13 per US$1 applicable to noncommercial invisibles and capital (see Table of Exchange Rates below). Exchange Payments Imports. Most imports require import licenses. Certain im- ports are freely permitted f rom EPU countries and their asso- ciated territories. Exchange is automatically granted for licensed imports. Payments for those imports free of import license require exchange licenses. All imports are effected at the S 21.49 rate. Invisibles. All payments abroad require licenses. Foreign exchange authorized for expenses incidental to trade transactions is provided at the S 21.49 rate, and for other purposes at the S 26.13 rate. Travelers may take out a maximum of S 1,000 in Austrian currency. Capital. Transfers of capital require approval and must be effected at the S 26.13 rate. 1 On January 1, 1952, the official commercial rates were narrowed to buy- ing S 21.30, selling S 21.42 per US$1. 36 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA 37 Exchange Receipts Exports. Some exports require licenses. Exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered at the S 21.23 rate, unless the exporter has permission to retain a part of them for his own authorized expenses.2 Barter transactions are permitted for certain exports. Invisibles. Exchange receipts from noncommercial invisibles must be surrendered at the S 25.87 rate; from commercial invisi- bles at the S 21.23 rate. Persons may bring in a maximum of S 1,000 in Austrian currency. Capital. The investment of foreign capital requires approval. Exchange receipts from capital must be surrendered. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1951) (schillings per U.S. dollar) . Buying Selling 21.23 Exports and commercial 21.49 Imports and commercial invisibles. invisibles. 25.87 Noncommercial invisibles and 26.13 Noncommercial invisibles and capital. capital. Changes during 1951 April 4 Two laws were passed respectively establishing an Economic Directorate and reorganizing foreign trade procedure. Under the new arrangements, the lists of goods subject to export and import licensing were revised, and important exports could be effected only against a letter of credit opened by the foreign buyer or against payment to be made within a relatively short period. December 22 It was announced that the export retention quota system would be abolished as from January 1, 1952. 2 Effective January 1, 1952, these retention quota arrangements were abol- ished, and, in place, the import needs of export producing industries were given preferential treatment. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG Date of Introduction In Belgium, May 10, 1940. During the war, exchange restric- tions were separately applied in Belgium and Luxembourg. The present exchange control system was established in 1944 and 1945. In September-December 1951, numerous changes took place in the regulations. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through licenses required for imports and for most nontrade payments; exchange is granted for imports and nontrade payments authorized by these licenses. Foreign exchange in certain currencies from commercial trans- actions must be surrendered. Other exchange proceeds may be retained, but their use is limited. The sale of certain currencies to authorized banks is subject to authorization. Most exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par values: Belgium Francs and Luxembourg Francs 50 = US$1. Buying and selling rates for Canadian dollars, French francs, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars are deter- mined through the exchange market in which the banks may operate to effect authorized transactions; these rates are opera- tive within official limits corresponding to Bfr 49.50 and Bfr 50.50 per US$1. Fixed buying and selling rates are estab- lished for other officially quoted currencies. For EPU currencies, there exists the possibility of transactions in a free market at fluctuating rates, but the use of exchange thus acquired is limited to a few transactions. Exchange Control Territory Belgium, Luxembourg, the Belgian Congo, and the Trust Ter- ritory of Ruanda-Urundi constitute the "Belgian Monetary Area." The "Belgium-Luxembourg Economic Union" constitutes a single exchange control territory, as Luxembourg in agreement with Belgium introduces and applies in Luxembourg the same control legislation as in Belgium; Belgian and Luxembourg resi- dents have the same exchange rights and obligations in both countries. Although the Belgian Congo and the Trust Territory of Ruanda-Urundi have an exchange control system of their own, 38 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG 39 very few restrictions are in force between the Belgium-Luxem- bourg Economic Union on the one side, and the Belgian Congo and the Trust Territory of Ruanda-Urundi on the other. The Belgian Monetary Area is treated as a single exchange control territory in relation to countries with which Belgium has concluded payments agreements. Exchange Payments Special conditions attach to payments to EPU countries. Pay- ments for imports and most other items of a current nature due to EPU countries are authorized for payment either (1) in appropriate foreign exchange, or (2) in Belgian or Luxembourg francs to the account of a bank in the country or monetary area of the recipient. For capital items and a few invisibles such as tourism, exchange may be obtained in a free market where EPU currencies may be sold. Payments to other countries are made either (1) by crediting a Belgian or Luxembourg f ranc account appropriate to the country or monetary area of the recipient, or (2) in some cases, in appropriate foreign exchange. Imports. Certain imports from any country require import licenses. Other imports are free of import license, but require a "declaration" to be completed. Both import licenses and "decla- rations" must be stamped by an authorized bank before import or payment may be effected. For most imports subject to the "declaration" procedure and payable in Canadian or U.S. dollars or in Belgian or Luxembourg francs to the credit of a nonresident account related to Canada or the United States, approval of the central exchange control authority is required before the bank can affix its stamp. Invisibles. Many nontrade payments abroad require licenses. Residents of all countries are generally permitted to transfer current earnings to their respective countries. Payments to EPU countries for expenses incidental to trade are freely perm i t ted; to other countries, such payments are permitted up to 12 per cent of the value of the commodity. Transfers abroad in connec- tion with expenses arising from the re-export trade and ware- housing are made in accordance with the import or export license. Resident insurance companies have considerable independence in their exchange operations. Remittances for certain other pur- poses (e.g., subscriptions, various fees, charitable remittances, etc.) are freely authorized to EPU countries, and to others up to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 40 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS specified limits. Any amount of foreign exchange is granted for travel to EPU countries, and a maximum of foreign exchange equivalent to Bfr 1,000 per day up to the limit of (1) Bfr 50,000 is granted to persons traveling to Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, United States, and Uruguay, and (2) Bfr 10,000 for persons traveling to other countries; in addition, residents traveling abroad may take with them Bfr 25,000 in Belgian or Luxembourg banknotes or the equivalent in foreign banknotes. Earnings from investments are credited to appropriate nonresi- dent accounts. Capital. Investment of foreign capital made in foreign cur- rency or out of balances on nonresident accounts can ordinarily be converted into the currency originally provided, or re-credited to an appropriate nonresident account. The investment of capital abroad by residents requires approval, but transfers of capital to EPU countries (other than the Federal Republic of Germany, Portugal, and Switzerland1) can be made freely. Exchange Receipts Special conditions attach to receipts from EPU countries. Such receipts must be obtained either (1) in Belgian or Luxem- bourg francs from a nonresident account related to the country or monetary area of the debtor, or (2) in appropriate foreign exchange. In the former case, a license from the exchange con- trol authority is required for the debit to the nonresident account. In the latter case, the beneficiary may apply for a license permitting an authorized bank to purchase the exchange at the official market rate; or, under the terms of a general license, he may retain the exchange, or sell it in a free market where its use is limited to payments for non-specified invisibles, e.g., tourism and capital items, or use it himself for similar payments. Exports. Most exports require export licenses. Other exports are free of export license but require a "declaration" to be com- pleted. Both export licenses and "declarations" must be stamped by an authorized bank before export may be effected and, in the case of exports to EPU countries, payment accepted. For most countries, the exchange proceeds of exports must be obtained in the currency of the country concerned, unless payment is received from an appropriate nonresident account. Alternatively, what- xln 1952, limitations on transfers of capital to these countries were removed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG 41 ever the importing country, the export proceeds may be obtained in Canadian or U.S. dollars. Proceeds of re-exports originating from the dollar area must be obtained in Canadian or U.S. dollars. Export proceeds in currencies other than those of EPU countries must be surrendered. Five per cent of export proceeds where these exceed Bfr 20,000 received in Belgian or Luxembourg francs from EPU countries or in any of their,currencies sold to an authorized bank must be withheld for six months on a blocked account.2 Invisibles. Only exchange proceeds from commercial transac- tions in the currencies of non-EPU countries must be surren- dered.3 All other exchange proceeds may be retained, but their disposal requires a license except in the case of non-specified pay- ments in EPU currencies. There is no restriction on the amount of Belgian or Luxembourg banknotes which travelers may bring into Belgium or Luxembourg. Capital. Residents may exchange or sell foreign securities and invest abroad the proceeds arising from the sale of such securi- ties. The disposal of foreign exchange receipts of residents derived from capital requires a license except in the case of EPU currencies. Most foreign capital investments can be freely repatriated. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of nonresidents, i.e., those resident outside Belgium-Luxembourg, are designated according to the country or monetary area appropriate to the residence of the account holder. The conditions governing these accounts are as follows: 1. Countries other than Germany, Italy, Japan, and Spain These accounts are designated "B" accounts and, except for those related to EPU countries (see 3 below), payments can be freely made to residents in the Belgian Monetary Area 2 Effective January 21, 1952, the withheld percentage of EPU export pro- ceeds was increased to IVz per cent and 10 per cent in respect of certain goods. Effective March 24, 1952, percentages of 5 per cent, IVz per cent, 10 per cent, 15 per cent, 20 per cent, and 25 per cent were applied, accord- ing to the category of the goods exported, but authorized banks were per- mitted to discount the balances standing to the credit of the temporarily- blocked accounts on which such funds were held. 8 Effective March 24, 1952, 40 per cent of exchange proceeds originating in financial transactions with EPU countries and exceeding Bfr 1,000 must be withheld for six months on a blocked account. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 42 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS and to other "B" accounts related to the same country or monetary area as the account holder. "B" accounts may not be credited with the proceeds of the sale of foreign notes or coin. a. United States Payments from these accounts can be freely made to any other "B" account except those related to Switzerland. b. Canada, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, France, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, the Sterling Area, Sweden, Switzer- land, and the United States Balances on these accounts are convertible into their cor- responding local currency. c. Countries other than Austria, Argentina, Brazil, Bul- garia, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Finland, French Franc Area, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Japan, Lebanon, Netherlands Monetary Area, Norway, Poland, Portu- guese Monetary Area, Rumania, Spain, the Sterling Area, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Turkey, U.S.S.R., Uruguay, and Yugoslavia. Payments from these accounts can be freely made to a "B" account not related (1) to one of the countries named above (except Brazil), or (2) to Andorra, Canada, Tan- gier, or the United States. d. All other payments from "B" accounts require a license. 2. Germany^ Italy, Japan and Spain All entries on these accounts are subject to license, unless the account holder is of Belgian or Luxembourg nationality, when the funds on such an account can be paid to residents in the Belgian Monetary Area or to the account holder when in Belgium-Luxembourg. 3. Additional conditions attaching to accounts related to EPU countries (Austria, Denmark, Federal Republic of Germany, French Franc Area, Greece, Italy, Netherlands Monetary Area, Norway, Portuguese Monetary Area, the Sterling Area, Sweden, Switzerland, and Turkey) Most debits to these accounts exceeding Bfr 5,000 require a license, except for transfers from such accounts to banks in the same country or monetary area as the transferor. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG 43 Changes during 1951 January 2J> Banknotes sent from abroad could only be credited to a bank- note account related to the country of the sender. The facility of transferring balances on such accounts regardless of the country of the account holder was limited to transfers between accounts related to EPU countries. February 15 Certain commodities were added to the list of items subject to export and import licensing. March 1 and 27 A few more commodities were added to the list of items subject to export licensing. April 2k Banknotes in Czechoslovak korunas, Danish kroner, Nether- lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, and Swedish kronor could (like banknotes in all other currencies) be negoti- ated freely at market rates by authorized dealers in foreign exchange. May 1 Banknote accounts related to EPU countries could no longer be opened or credited. May 29 Arbitrage operations in Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and Belgian francs were prohibited, and transfers from nonresident accounts related to the United States to those related to Switzerland became subject to license. June 1 A few more commodities were added to the list of items subject to export licensing. June 4 A few more commodities were added to the list of items subject to export and import licensing. June 18 The general license permitting the purchase of Belgian and Luxembourg securities to the debit of nonresident accounts (other than those related to the United States) was withdrawn. June 19 Belgian banknotes mailed by banks from abroad could no longer be credited to banknote accounts, and the banknote account ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 44 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS arrangements were, apart from the liquidation of existing bal- ances, canceled. The amount of banknotes which could be taken abroad by travelers was raised from Bfr 10,000 to Bfr 25,000 or the equiva- lent in other currencies. July 18 The maximum amount of foreign exchange granted to travelers to Argentina, Colombia, the United States, and Uruguay was raised from Bfr 30,000 to Bfr 50,000, and the list of countries to which this applied was extended to include Brazil, Canada, and EPU countries except Switzerland. September 1 Limitations on the amount of exchange made available for expenses incidental to trade, for traveling expenses, royalties, patent fees, trade marks, and the salaries of foreign workers were removed for payments to EPU countries (except Switzer- land). Residents were authorized to transfer capital through author- ized banks to EPU countries except the Federal Republic of Germany, Portugal, and Switzerland. September 3 A considerable number of commodities were added to the list of items subject to export licensing. September 6 Further commodities were added to the list of items subject to export licensing. September 10 Authorized banks could no longer automatically approve all import "declarations" when payment was to be made in U.S. or Canadian dollars or in Belgian or Luxembourg francs to the credit of an American or Canadian nonresident account. Such applications, except for certain essential items, had to be referred to the central exchange control authority. September 17 Residents who received export proceeds exceeding Bfr 20,000 (1) in Belgian or Luxembourg francs from an EPU country, or (2) by the sale to an authorized bank of the currencies of .those countries, had to transfer 5 per cent of such proceeds to a special account blocked for 6 months. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG 45 October 9 Residents (other than authorized banks) were exempted from the obligation to surrender foreign exchange proceeds of exports expressed in currencies of EPU countries (other than Switzer- land) and were authorized to negotiate such currencies with other residents and/or to use them for the settlement of any debts abroad. Most debits exceeding Bf r 5,000 to nonresident accounts related to EPU countries or the purchase of their currencies became subject to a permit from the central exchange control authority. Transfers between nonresident accounts related to EPU coun- tries, except to the account of a bank in the same country as the transferor, also became subject to license. October 10 Payments by residents to EPU countries could only be made either (1) by crediting Belgium or Luxembourg francs to the nonresident account of a bank in the country or monetary area of the payee, or (2) in the currency of that country. October 11 Authorized banks were no longer permitted to approve auto- matically "declarations" in respect of exports to EPU countries and applications had to be referred to the trade control authority. October 31 The arrangements of October 9 concerning the non-surrender of export proceeds were extended to include Swiss francs. Payments in respect of imports and most invisibles due to residents in EPU countries in Belgian or Luxembourg francs could be made only by crediting the account of a bank in the country or monetary area of the beneficiary; if due in foreign currency, this had to be acquired from an authorized bank. November 1 A new payments agreement concluded with Switzerland and regulating payments between that country and the Belgian Monetary Area became effective. November 9 A few more commodities were added to the list of items subject to export licensing. November 16 Switzerland was added to the list of countries, for travel to which no limit was set to the issue of travelers' checks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 46 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS November 22 Taxes of 1, 2, and 3 per cent were applied to the export to any country of specified commodities. In the case of exports to Luxembourg for consumption in that country, a certificate of exemption could be obtained. November 24 Imports made with the importer's own exchange were made subject to exchange license. November 29 Further commodities were added to the list of items subject to export licensing. December 1 The time allowed for payment of imports was reduced f rom 3 months to 1 month in respect of imports from EPU countries. December 17 The taxes on exports, effective November 22, 1951, were reduced to 1 per cent for exports to the Netherlands.4 The pound sterling was quoted officially in the Brussels foreign exchange market for authorized transactions. * Effective March 24, 1952, export taxes were abolished in respect of ex- port proceeds obtained in Canadian or U.S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA Date of Introduction In 1932. Last ma jor revision April 8,1950. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through import prohibitions, licenses granted up to the limits of individual exchange quotas, licenses required for nontrade payments, and multiple currency practices consisting of a fixed penalty selling rate and exchange taxes. Foreign exchange, with certain exceptions, must be surrendered. A multiple currency practice results on the buying side from the application of different exchange rates. All exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par va lue: Bolivianos 60 = US$1. Official rates: buying Bs 60.00, selling Bs 60.60 per US$1. The fixed rates plus exchange taxes and the surrender of various portions of exchange at d ifferent rates yield various effective rates (see Table of Exchange Rates be low). Exchange Payments Imports. All imports require import licenses. These are granted for essential and nonessential imports up to the limits of ind iv idual exchange quotas computed on the basis of essentiality of imports and price considerations, in addition to other criteria. Payments for essential goods and other authorized imports are effected at the Bs 60.60 and the Bs 101 rates, respectively, and in addition are subject to a tax of Bs 3 per U.S. dollar of the import value. Imports of luxu ry articles are generally prohibited, but certain commodities can be imported if the importer provides his own exchange or through the Banco Minero, which provides special import facilities at other rates. Invisibles. Payments abroad require licenses. Transfers of profits up to 15 per cent annua l ly of registered capital may be effected at the Bs 60.60 rate. Remittances to students and for travel and health reasons may be made at the Bs 60.60 rate. Other authorized payments are made at the Bs 104 rate. 47 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 48 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Capital. Transfers of capital require approval. Transfers for amortization up to 30 per cent annually of registered foreign capital are effected at the Bs 60.60 rate. Transfers of nonregis- tered capital may be effected at the Bs 104 rate. Exchange Receipts Exports. All exports require licenses which are granted auto- matically if the exporter agrees to the surrender requirements. Depending on the price of tin, 40 or 42 per cent of exchange proceeds may be retained by tin exporters for specified purposes and the balance must be surrendered at the Bs 60 rate. The per- centages of the exchange proceeds from the export of other minerals which must be surrendered at the Bs 60 and Bs 100 rates vary with world prices and the metal content of the ores. For non-mineral exports, the percentages of exchange which must be surrendered at the Bs 60 rate vary. The remainder must be used by the exporter to cover expenditures abroad or be sur- rendered at the Bs 100 rate. A rate of Bs 130 applies to the proceeds from certain minerals exported to certain European countries through the Banco Minero under barter arrangements. Invisibles. Exchange from invisibles must be surrendered at the Bs 100 rate. Capital. The investment of foreign capital must be registered and surrendered at the Bs 60 rate in order to obtain a transfer guarantee. Nonregistered capital may be sold at the Bs 100 rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA 49 Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1951) (bolivianos per U.S. dollar) 60.60 63.60 (Bs 60 .60 rate plus Bs 3 taxes) 101.00 ("Free Market" Rate) 104.00 (Bs 101 rate plus Bs 3 taxes) 130.00 190.00 Selling G o v e r n m e nt p a y- ments. Students, and t r a v el f or h e a l th purposes. Registered capital. Essential imports. O t h er i n v i s i b l e s. Nonregistered capi- tal. Other authorized im- ports. Imports from cer- Jain European coun- tries effected through the Banco Minero u n d er b a r t er a r- rangements. Imports of specified luxury items effected through the Banco Minero. 60.00 Buying Tin exports to the ex- tent of the surrender requirements. Percent- ages of other exports. Registered capital. 100.00 ("Free Market" Rate) Required percentages of non-tin exports. Invisi- b le s. N o n r e g i s t e r ed capital. 130.00 Exports of certain min- erals to certain Euro- pean countries effected through the Banco Mi- nero under barter ar- rangements. Note: The above rates for non-tin exports are not usually effective buy- ing rates. The effective buying rates for these export proceeds are de- termined by the percentages at which particular proceeds are surrendered at the above rates. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 50 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Changes during 1951 January 2 The issue of import licenses for goods covered by private exchange was suspended. January 11 Certain important items were removed from the list of com- modities prohibited f rom importation. February 24. A decree authorized the reopening and revision of the official registry of importers during the period March 15, 1951 to June 30, 1951. February 26 A decree authorized the importation with private exchange or on a credit or consignment basis of certain machinery, equip- ment, and materials regarded as essential to the Bolivian economy. July 12 A tax of Bs 1 per U.S. dollar on most payments imposed by a Decree of April 19, 1948, together with another tax of Bs 1 per U.S. dollar imposed by a law of November 14, 1950, was aug- mented by a a further tax of Bs 1 per U.S. dollar, making the total tax on most payments Bs 3 per U.S. dollar. October 30 The issue of import licenses for goods covered by private ex- change was re-established. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL Date of Introduction In 1931. Last major revision in October 1949. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through licenses granted up to the limits of individual import quotas, through licenses required for nontrade payments, and through a multiple currency practice consisting of an exchange tax on most payments. Foreign ex- change must be surrendered. Certain exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: Cruzeiros 18.50 = US$1. Official rates: buying Cr$18.38, selling Cr$18.72 per US$1. A tax of 5 per cent im- posed on most remittances yields an effective selling rate of Cr$19.656 per US$11 (see Table of Exchange Rates be low). Exchange Payments Payments abroad require licenses. Practically all payments are subject to a 5 per cent remittance tax.1 These licenses are granted on the basis of an exchange priority system based on four categories to which varying percentages of exchange are allocated. These categories are: 1. "Superessential" imports such as agricultural machin- ery, fuel, petroleum, and scarce materials. 2. Essential imports. 3. Transfers of capital, profits, interest, and dividends up to certain limits. This category is subdivided into two groups, favored investments and common investments, according to their economic utility. 4. Necessary and nonessential imports. Imports. All imports with the exception of specified essential commodities require import licenses. These licenses are granted up to the limits of individual import quotas computed on the basis of the firm's previous imports and other criteria. Import licenses to import goods payable in "hard cu r renc ies"2 are 1 Effective January 1, 1952, this tax was raised to 8 per cent, mak ing the effective selling rate Cr$20.2176 per US$1. 2 These currencies are listed as follows: Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish k rone r, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and Uruguayan pesos. 51 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 52 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS issued on the basis of an exchange budget and only if the goods cannot be paid for in "soft currencies." Exchange is granted to holders of import licenses according to availability of the cur- rency required and in accordance with the priority schedule out- lined above. Certain essential imports are not subject to the tax, and payments are made at the Cr$18.72 rate. Invisibles. Exchange priority for payment of expenses inci- dental to trade transactions is determined by the category of the corresponding import. The granting of exchange at the official rate for remittances abroad for maintenance, travel, charity, noncommercial services, and medical treatment is tem- porarily suspended. Interest, dividends, and profits on regis- tered capital may be transferred to a maximum of 8 per cent annually, but this percentage may be increased by the authori- ties for particular investments; transfers above the 8 per cent limit are treated as capital transfers for exchange allocation purposes. Payments abroad in respect of interest, dividends, and profits up to 8 per cent on registered capital are exempt from the remittance tax. Capital. Transfers of registered capital are limited by law to a maximum of 20 per cent annually, and are exempt from the remittance tax. This percentage may be increased for particular investments. Investments abroad by residents are authorized only when exchange conditions permit. Exchange Receipts Exports. Certain exports require export licenses and shipping permits. Approval of the exchange control authorities is cus- tomarily granted if the exchange proceeds have been contractu- ally sold in advance or guaranteed to be surrendered. Exports of goods in short supply may be restricted by the trade control authorities. All exporters are required by law to invest the cruzeiro equivalent of 20 per cent of their export proceeds in negotiable Treasury Bills which pay 3 per cent interest per annum and mature in 120 days. Invisibles. Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered, but exchange earnings from freight, insurance, and commissions may be kept in moderate amounts at authorized banks for payments on similar transactions. Capital. The investment of foreign capital must be registered and surrendered in order to obtain a transfer guarantee. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 53 Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1951) Buying Government payments. Imports of specified e s s e n t i al foodstuffs, fuels, petroleum, news- print, and book paper. Registered capital up to 20% per annum a nd i n t e r e s t, d i v i- d e n d s, a nd p r o f i ts thereon up to 8% per annum. All other payments. (cruzeiros per U.S. dollar) Selling 18.38 All incoming exchange. 18.72 19.656 (Cr$18.72 rate plus 5% tax) 3 Note: Multiple exchange rates can re- sult from the compulsory investment of 20% of export proceeds in nego- tiable Treasury Bills when the Treas- ury Bills carry interest or discount rates which result in an effective ex- change rate for the total proceeds d iffer ing from parity by more than 1%. Changes during 1951 February 8 Consideration of new barter transactions was suspended. The validity of outstanding authorizations was extended 30 days. February 13 A further list was issued of products for which applications for import licenses could be submitted when payment was to be in pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, or U.S. dollars. April 30 The acceptance of applications was temporarily suspended for licenses for imports based on commercial agreements with Argentina, Austria, Czechoslovakia, Germany, Italy, the United 3 See footnote 1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 54 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Kingdom, and Yugoslavia in order to ensure equitable distribu- tion of quotas among interested importers. This suspension did not apply to essential raw materials, machinery, and accessories. A new list was issued of commodities for which applications for licenses for imports payable in U.S. dollars or Swiss francs could be submitted. Imports payable in pounds sterling and Swedish kronor were no longer to be considered on the same footing as imports payable in "hard currencies." May 4 In the priority system for exchange licenses, the fifth category applicable to travel and maintenance was eliminated. The cate- gory related to foreign investments was subdivided into two groups, favored investments and common investments. May 21 The requirement that exchange coverage for the transfer of freights could be granted only if the payment had originally been made in cruzeiros in Brazil was suspended from June 1, 1951 to December 31 1951 (and on June 27, indef in i te ly). June 13 A law was signed permitting the authorities to raise the tax on foreign remittances f rom Brazil from 5 per cent to 8 per cent. August 7 Imports by post (except small samples for noncommercial uses) were made subject to import licensing and exchange quotas. September 15 A law was issued adding "profits" on registered foreign capi- tal to the items exempted f rom the remittance tax. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA1 Date of Introduction February 1940. Last major revision August 1, 1947. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through import prohibitions, licenses required for nonprohibited imports, and through licenses re- quired for nontrade payments. Exchange is granted for non- trade payments and most imports authorized by these licenses. Foreign exchange must be surrendered. Most exports require licenses. Exchange Rates No par value for the Burmese Rupee. The official rate of ex- change is Bur Rs 4.76 per US$1, but there is no official buying or selling rate for the U.S. dollar. Exchange Payments Payments to other parts of the Sterling Area must be effected either in sterling or in the appropriate Sterling Area currency. Payments to outside the Sterling Area must be effected in the foreign exchange appropriate to the country of the recipient or by crediting the appropriate sterling or Burmese rupee account of a nonresident. Imports. Certain nonessential and luxury imports are pro- hibited. Many essential imports from neighboring countries or from the Sterling Area, certain textiles from Japan, and certain other imports from all countries except Canada and the "Ameri- can Account" area,2 are free of license. All other imports re- quire import licenses. Exchange is automatically granted for authorized imports, except in some cases where the import license does not provide for allocation of exchange. Invisibles. Payments abroad require licenses. Capital. Transfers of capital require approval. 1 Membership in the International Monetary Fund became effective Janu- ary 3, 1952. 2 This comprises Bolivia, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippine Republic, United States and possessions, and Venezuela. 55 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 56 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Exchange Receipts Exports. A few exports essential to the domestic economy are prohibited. Most exports are under governmental monopoly. Most other exports require licenses, which are customarily granted if the exporter agrees to surrender the exchange proceeds. Invisibles. Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered. Capital. Exchange receipts f rom capital must be surrendered. Changes during 1951 May 4 An Open General License was issued removing individual im- port license requirements on certain commodities, if imported f rom any country except Canada and the "American Account" area. June 16 Another Open General License was issued adding several items to the list of those free from import license if imported from any country except Canada and the "American Account" area. August 6 Another Open General License was issued freeing additional items from import license if imported from any country except Canada and the "American Account" area. November 1 Exporters were required to have on their shipping forms the endorsement of an authorized dealer in foreign exchange to the effect that arrangements have been made to obtain the proceeds of exports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON Date of Introduction September 19, 1939. Last major revision June 1, 1948. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through import prohibitions, through licenses required for nonprohibited imports, and through licenses required for nontrade payments; exchange is granted for imports and nontrade payments authorized by these licenses. Foreign exchange in specified currencies must be surrendered. Exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: Ceylon Rupees 4.76190—US$1.1 The Ceylon author- ties hold the Ceylon rupee steady in respect to the pound ster- ling; the Central Bank's rates for the U.S. dollar vary f rom day to day on the basis of the rate for the U.S. dollar in London. The market rate in Ceylon for the pound sterling as at December 31, 1951 was buy ing Cey Rs 13.28, selling Cey Rs 13.33 per pound sterling, and for the U.S. dollar, buying Cey Rs 4.765 and selling Cey Rs 4.80 per US$1. Exchange Payments Payments must be effected either in the foreign exchange appropriate to the country or monetary area of the recipient or by crediting the appropriate sterling or Ceylon rupee account of a nonresident. Imports. Certain imports are prohibited from any source. Certain other imports require an import license if imported from any source. Other specified imports require an individual import license only if imported from "hard currency" countries,2 Ger- many and Japan, but where such goods originate in Germany or Japan licenses are issued freely to importers of Ceylonese na- tionality. Exchange is automatically granted for authorized imports. 1 The establishment of this initial par value for the Ceylon rupee was an- nounced January 17, 1952. 2 These countries are listed as follows: Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Philippine Republic, United States and possessions, and Venezuela. 57 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 58 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Invisibles. Payments abroad require licenses. Foreign ex- change is freely granted for expenses incidental to trade trans- actions, transfers abroad of dividends, and other earnings due to nonresidents. Exchange for family maintenance, including secondary education abroad, is granted up to the applicant's actual requirements. Exchange is also granted for the under- graduate or postgraduate education of dependents abroad. Resi- dents traveling to countries other than the "hard currency" countries are granted specified amounts in the appropriate currencies, according to the applicant's destination. Capital. Transfers of capital require approval. Transfers due to persons residing in or taking up permanent residence in Ster- ling Area countries other than Ceylon are freely authorized. Most capital payments due to persons outside the Sterling Area can be used only for investment in approved securities. Capital trans- fers are authorized in limited amounts in cases of emigration to countries outside the Sterling Area. Exchange Receipts Exports. All exports require licenses, which are granted if the exporter undertakes to obtain the export proceeds in appropriate foreign exchange, or in sterling or Ceylon rupees from an account appropriate to the country of destination. A few commodities, mostly of a type essential to the national economy, require special export license. Foreign exchange in specified currencies must be surrendered. Invisibles. Exchange receipts from invisibles in specified currencies must be surrendered. Capital. The investment of foreign capital requires approval. Investment in approved projects insures subsequent repatriation up to the limits of the original investment. Foreign capital investments brought in from the Sterling Area may be freely repatriated. Exchange receipts in specified currencies from capital must be surrendered. Changes during 1951 January 15 Additions were made to the lists of goods which could be imported without individual import licenses from, respectively, the Sterling Area (excluding Hong Kong) and all countries (except Japan). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON 59 Aprils Authorized dealers were permitted to deal in notes and coin of countries outside the Sterling Area at market rates. June 28 New Open General Licenses were issued permitting the import of many commodities from non-dollar countries except Germany and Japan and of many other commodities from dollar countries. September 18 The basic ration for travel abroad was increased with effect f rom July 1, 1951 for persons traveling to all countries except Canada and the "American Account" Area. The amount of cur- rency notes 'and coin which could be taken out of Ceylon by travelers was also increased. November 26 A list was published of goods which could be imported without quantitative restrictions from Germany and Japan by importers of Ceylonese nationality in possession of general import licenses. November 27 The procedure for payment in Sterling Area currencies for imports from other Sterling Area territories was simplified. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE Date of Introduction July 1931. Last major revision November 21, 1950. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through import prohibitions, licenses for most nonprohibited imports, licenses for certain nontrade payments, and multiple currency practices consisting of fixed penalty selling rates and two free markets. Foreign exchange, with certain exceptions, must be surrendered. A multiple cur- rency practice results on the buying side from the application of different fixed rates and free market rates. Exports require licenses except exports of copper, iron, nitrate, and iodine by the large mining companies. Exchange Rates Par value: Chilean Pesos 31 = US$1. Official rates: buying P 31.00, selling P 31.10 per US$1. The fixed rates, mixing system, and free markets yield various effective rates (see Table of Exchange Rates be low). Exchange Payments Imports. The import of certain luxury goods and goods of a type produced locally is prohibited. Certain goods may be imported free of license, the exchange being obtained at the "free market" rate currently P 90 per U.S. dollar. Other imports require import licenses. Payments of highly essential imports, such as sugar and drugs, are effected at the P 31.10 rate. Pay- ments for specified raw materials (e.g., gasoline, oil, rubber) are made at the P 50.10 rate. The import of certain luxury goods, such as washing machines, pe r fume oils, and watches, is per- mitted only through a free market in which exchange is derived from the export of domestically-produced gold. The rate in this market fluctuates and is currently about P 135 per U.S. dollar. The import of certain other luxury goods is permitted with exchange derived from exports of wine. The rate for this purpose is 20 pesos higher than the free market exchange rate. The general import rate of P 60.10 per U.S. dollar applies to all other imports. Invisibles. Payments abroad at rates fixed by the authorities require licenses; other payments may be made through a free market, currently P 93.00 per U.S. dollar. 60 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE 61 Capital. Transfers abroad, in fu ll or in part, of foreign capital entering the country in currency after November 21, 1950 may be effected through the free market without the need for a prior permit; in like manner, transfers abroad of earnings of such capital are also effected through the free market. Amortization and profits of certain investments made prior to the date indi- cated are subject to special conditions, as is amortization and interest on external debts of the Government and public institutions. Exchange Receipts Exports. With the exception of exports of copper, iron, nitrate, and iodine, all other exports are subject to prior permit, and the exchange proceeds must be returned to the country. The large foreign-owned mining companies (copper and iron) are required to surrender at the special rate of P 19.37 per dollar the foreign exchange necessary for their local currency expenditures in the country. The proceeds of exports of nitrate and iodine must be surrendered and liquidated at the rate of P 50 per dollar, with the exception of an amount of approximately 2 per cent of the total, which is sold to the Treasury at the special rate of P 19.37 per dollar. The surrender of proceeds of exports of copper cuttings and scraps made by national companies takes place at the rate of P 43 per dollar. Export proceeds of manufac- tured, processed, and semi-processed copper are surrendered at mixed rates: the f.a.s. cost of the raw material at P 60, and the remainder at P 31 per dollar. The proceeds of some minor exports are liquidated at the P 60 rate; the proceeds of other exports are liquidated at the free rate. Certain fa rm exports are liquidated at mixed rates derived from percentages of the P 31 and P 60 rates and others at the free rate. The proceeds of exports of newly-produced domestic gold and of exports of wine may be used for the importation of designated luxury goods. Invisibles. Part of the exchange receipts f rom invisibles may be sold in a free market, currently at P 92.60 per U.S. dollar. Capital. Exchange receipts from capital may be sold in a free market, currently at P 92.60 per U.S. dollar. The investment of foreign capital entering in the form of foreign currency must be registered in order to obtain a transfer guarantee. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 62 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1951) (pesos per U.S. dollar) 19.37 31.00 Buying Sales of exchange by the large mining com- p a n i es ( c o p p er a nd iron) to cover local cur- rency expenses in the country; sale of ap- proximately 2% of the proceeds of exports of nitrate and iodine. Liquidation of certain insurance. 31.10 43.00 E x p o r ts of c o p p er scrap. Certain invisible foreign-trade items. 43.10 Selling Imports of d r u g s, a n t i b i o t i c s, sugar, n e w s p r i n t, tallow, wheat, flour, and cer- t a in g o v e r n m e nt imports. Certain in- visible foreign-trade items. Imports of raw cot- ton, articles and ap- pliances for medical and dental use, cer- tain imports of pub- lic and semi-public institutions. S ome invisible f o r e i g n- trade items. Exports of bran, hides, skins, wax, wool. 49.851 (35% at P 31 and 65'% at P 60) 50.00 50.10 Exports of nitrate and iodine. Imports of crude oil, gasoline, tea, yerba mate, paraffin, anti- biotics, k e r o s e n e, rubber, jute, cellu- lose, ships, etc. Cer- tain i n v i s i b le for- eign-trade items. 1 Effective January 1, 1952, certain changes took place in the application of these rates. The mixed rate of P 54.20 was abolished and new mixed rates of P 66 and P 75 were established; the export commodities to which these rates and the P 49.85 and P 90 rates applied were rearranged so as to give more prominence to the use of the P 60 rate for agricultural exports and to the P 90 rate for general exports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE 63 Table of Exchange Rates (continued) Buying E x p o r ts of l e n t i l s, frozen meats and chick peas. Selling Exports of certain agri- cultural products (bar- ley, kidney beans, soap- bark, t imber). Sale of exchange by large min- ing companies (copper and i ron) to cover local currency expenses for new investments in the country. D e s i g n a t ed e x p o r ts (products of medium and small mining in- dustry, manufactures, petroleum, certain agri- cultural products, etc.). Invisibles; receipts on account of capital. 60.10 General import rate. Certain foreign-trade invisibles. 90.20 ("Free Market" Rate) D e s i g n a t ed nones- sential imports. In- visible items not au- thorized at other ex- change rates. 54.202 (20% at P 31 and 80% at P 60) 60.00 90.002 ("Free Market" Rate) Exports of wine. 92.60 (Fluctu- ating Free Market Ra te) 110.003 (Wine Rate) 135.00 (Fluctu- ating Gold Market Rate) 2 See footnote 1. 3 This exchange rate is 20 pesos above the "Free Market" rate. 93.00 (Fluctu- ating Free Market Rate) 110.20 (Wine Ra te) 135.00 (Fluctu- ating Gold Market Rate) Exports of newly-pro- duced domestic gold. Other invisible for- eign-trade items, in- cluding tourism and private capital move- ment. Designated imports. l u x u ry Designated imports. l u x u ry ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 64 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Changes during 1951 January 29 The list of commodities which could be imported against gold sales was revised. February 9 A list was published showing the commodities whose import during 1951 was prohibited. May 10 The January 29 list of imports against dollars derived from gold exports was revised. May 30 A new list of commodities which could be imported against the proceeds of wine exports was published. July 18 The import of certain commodities previously permitted from all sources was restricted to imports f rom countries with which Chile has payments or compensation agreements. The authorization previously granted to exchange brokers to operate in the free market for exchange derived from and in- tended for visible foreign trade was suspended. Consequently, these operations could be performed thereafter only by author- ized commercial banks. Transactions of brokers authorized to operate in this free market were limited to invisible foreign- trade operations. August 27 The list of commodities which could be imported against gold sales was again revised. November 13 Regulations were established for exports of processed and semi- processed copper. December 10 Automobiles, previously importable against gold sales, were placed on the prohibited import list. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHINA1 Date of Introduction June 15, 1949. Last major revision April 11, 1951. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through import prohibitions, licenses required, for imports and nontrade payments and through a multiple currency practice resulting from the use of an exchange certificate rate in addition to the Bank of Taiwan's rate. A multiple currency practice also exists on the buying side result- ing from different rates applied to export proceeds and to other items. Exchange Rates No par value for the New Taiwan Dollar. Official rate of the New Taiwan Dollar: NT$5.00 per US$1, but no transactions are effected at this rate. There are two quoted rates, viz., the Bank of Taiwan's rate: buying NT$10.25 per US$1, selling NT$10.30 per US$1; and a Foreign Exchange Deposit Certificate rate: buying NT$15.55, selling NT$15.65 per US$1. This rate is fixed from time to time by a Rate Fixing Committee. A third effec- tive rate is derived from a combination of these two rates (see Table of Exchange Rates below). Exchange Payments Imports. Transactions of the government and governmental enterprises and payments for private imports of specified goods deemed essential from time to time by the authorities are effected at the NT$10.30 rate. Imports of certain specified luxuries are prohibited, and imports of specified commodities which may be produced locally or of which there are sufficient stocks are tempo- rarily suspended. All other imports require an individual license and are effected at the NT$15.65 rate. Upon production of the relevant import license, exchange can be obtained from the Bank of Taiwan against payment in local currency at the exchange certificate rate, in gold or appropriate foreign currencies, or against exchange certificates. Barter transactions are permitted under separate arrangements. Invisibles. Private nontrade payments require specific gov- ernment approval and are effected at the exchange certificate 1 Effective in Taiwan as of December 31, 1951. 65 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 66 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS rate. Travelers leaving Taiwan may take with them foreign currencies aggregating not more than the equivalent of US$200. Capital. Capital payments due to nonresidents are normally not approved. New capital investments abroad by residents are prohibited. Exchange Receipts Exports. All export proceeds must be surrendered. Govern- ment enterprises must surrender their total export proceeds at the Bank of Taiwan's rate of NT$10.25 per US$1. Private ex- porters surrender 20 per cent of their export proceeds at this rate in return for local currency and the remaining 80 per cent in return for Foreign Exchange Deposit Certificates or local cur- rency at the prevailing certificate rate. Certain specified cate- gories of exports, such as gold or silver bullion or coins, are pro- hibited. Barter transactions are permitted under separate arrangements. Invisibles. Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered at the certificate rate. Travelers entering Taiwan may bring in any amount of foreign currencies and either hold them or surrender them at the certificate rate. Capital. Residents are permitted to hold foreign exchange representing capital receipts but may only dispose of this ex- change by selling it to the Bank of Taiwan for local currency at the certificate rate or surrendering it in return for Foreign Ex- change Deposit Certificates. Repatriation of foreign capital is allowed only in special circumstances. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CH INA 67 Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1951) (new Taiwan dollar per U.S. dollar) Buying Selling 5.00 10.25 (Bank of Taiwan's Rate) 14.49 (20% at the 10 .25 r a te and 80% at the Foreign E x c h a n ge D e p o s it C e r t i f i c a te Rate) 15.55 ( F o r e i gn E x c h a n ge D e p o s it C e r t i f i c a te Rate) Exports of government enterprises. Private exports. 5.00 10.30 (Bank of Taiwan's Rate) G o v e r n m e nt p a y- ments. Specified es- sential imports. Invisibles. Capital. Other authorized im- ports. A u t h o r i z ed invisibles. 15.65 ( F o r e i gn E x c h a n ge D e p o s it C e r t i f i c a te Ra te) Changes during 1951 April 9 Private dealings in gold and foreign exchange were prohibited. A foreign exchange certificate Rate Fixing Committee was estab- lished. April 11 New exchange certificate rates were announced. These rates were buying NT$15.85, selling NT$15.95 per US$1; for trade with Japan special rates of buying NT$15.08, selling NT$15.18 per US$1 were announced. New import control regulations were also introduced; these provided that, once an import license was granted, an importer could obtain the appropriate foreign exchange direct f rom the Bank of Taiwan by payment in local currency at the exchange certificate rate. May 8 The special U. S. dollar rate for trade with Japan was abolished and this trade was to be conducted at the same dollar rates as apply to transactions with other countries. May 21 The exchange certificate rate was changed to buying NT$15.55, selling NT$15.65 per US$1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA Date of Introduction September 1931. Last major revision March 20, 1951. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through the prohibition of certain imports and of some nontrade payments, and a multiple currency practice consisting of exchange taxes on most exchange opera- tions. Foreign exchange, with few exceptions, must be sur- rendered. A multiple currency practice results on the buying side from the application of a mixed effective rate for coffee export proceeds. All exports require prior registration. Exchange Rates Par value: Colombian Pesos 1.94998—US$1. Official rates: buying Ps$2.50, selling Ps$2.51 per US$1. The official rates, exchange taxes, and the mixed rate for coffee exports yield vari- ous effective rates (see Table of Exchange Rates below). Exchange Payments Imports. The import of certain luxury goods and goods of a type produced locally is prohibited. Other'imports require prior registration. A cash deposit of 10 per cent of the value jof the goods in Colombian currency has to be made as a prerequisite to this registration. Certain imports require the prior approval of certain ministries. Imports are effected at the basic selling rate of Ps$2.51 and with a few exceptions are subject to a 3 per cent stamp tax calculated on the Ps$2.50 rate. Invisibles. Payments abroad require prior registration. Cer- tain essential payments may be effected at the selling rate of Ps$2.51 without tax. Other authorized payments are effected at this rate plus the stamp tax or the stamp tax and resident tax. Exchange for travel abroad is granted up to a limit of US$600 per month per person for not more than two months per year at the rate of Ps$2.51 plus taxes totaling 6 per cent. Stu- dents meeting the legal requirements are allowed remittances of up to US$250 or US$150 per month, depending on the type of study, at the rate of Ps$2.51, free of tax. For medical treatment outside Colombia up to US$1,500 is granted at the selling rate of Ps$2.51 plus 6 per cent total taxes. Earnings on registered foreign capital may be transferred at any time at the rate of 68 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA 69 Ps$2.51 plus 3 per cent stamp tax. All taxes are calculated on the Ps$2.50 rate. Capital. Transfers of capital require prior registration and may be effected at the selling rate of Ps$2.51 plus 3 per cent stamp tax calculated on the Ps$2.50 rate. Exchange Receipts Exports. All exports require prior registration. Some ex- ports require the approval of certain ministries. Exchange pro- ceeds must be surrendered. Exchange proceeds from coffee ex- ports are sold partly at the Ps$1.95 rate and the rest at the Ps$2.50 rate. The percentage to be surrendered at the Ps$2.50 rate is raised l1/^ per cent per month. All other export proceeds are surrendered entirely at the Ps$2.50 rate. Invisibles. Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered at the Ps$2.50 rate. Exchange proceeds from insur- ance and from earnings on resident investments abroad must be surrendered at the Ps$2.50 rate. Capital. The investment of foreign capital must be registered and amounts representing capital imported in foreign exchange surrendered at the Ps$2.50 rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 70 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1951) (pesos per U.S. dollar) 2.1865 (57% at Ps$1.95 rate and 43%* at Ps$2.50 rate) 2.50 Buying Exports of coffee. Selling A ll o t h er e x c h a n ge proceeds. 2.51 2.56 (Ps$2.51 plus re- duced stamp tax of 2% at Ps$2.50 rate) 2.585 (Ps$2.51 rate plus stamp tax of 3% at Ps$2.50 rate) 2.66 (Ps$2.51 rate plus stamp tax of 3% and resident tax of 3%, both at Ps$2.50 rate) Official payments, in- cluding imports for use or consumption by the organizations concerned. C e r t a in invisibles, e.g., es- sential students' ex- penses up to speci- fied limits. C e r t a in f o r e i gn banking services and payments of certain organizations. All other imports, and most commercial i n v i s i b l e s. Regis- tered capital. Other invisibles, e.g., travel abroad up to certain limits and additional transfers to make up the cost of aviation courses. 1 As of December 31, 1951. The percentage at the Ps$2.50 rate is raised by ll/2% each month. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA 71 Changes during 1951 March 20 A complete revision of the exchange and import control system took place. Except for a prohibited import list of some 1,200 specified luxury or locally-produced items, practically all licensing restrictions on imports were removed. The basic buying and selling rates of Ps$1.95 and Ps$1.96 per US$1 were depreciated to Ps$2.50 and Ps$2.51 respectively. However, exchange pro- ceeds from coffee exports were to be surrendered only 25 per cent at the Ps$2.50 rate and the balance at the old rate of Ps$1.95. Exchange taxes other than the stamp tax, resident tax, and draft tax were eliminated; exchange certificates and all mixed rates based thereon were also eliminated. The basis for computing the stamp tax on exchange sales was changed from 4 per cent calcu- lated on the Ps$1.95 rate to 3 per cent calculated on the Ps$2.50 rate. Other taxes were also to be calculated on the Ps$2.50 rate. August 3 A new decree governing foreign investments was issued. These had to be registered, and if in foreign exchange, sold to an authorized bank. Registered capital and net earnings thereon could be repatriated at any time, subject to registration. September 14 The 6 per cent tax applicable to exchange operations for film and theatrical earnings was eliminated. September 20 The basic monthly exchange allowance for travel abroad was raised f rom US$500 to US$600 per person and limited to two months a year. October 29 The percentage of exchange proceeds from coffee exports sur- renderable at the Ps$2.50 rate was raised from 25 per cent to 40 per cent and provision was made for this percentage to be in- creased progressively by IVs per cent each month until the Ps$2.50 rate becomes applicable to the total proceeds. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA Date of Introduction January 16, 1932. Last major revision September 29, 1951. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through licenses required for pay- ments through the official market, and through a multiple cur- rency practice consisting of an official market for certain trade transactions and a free market for most other transactions. Foreign exchange derived f rom exports and certain invisibles must be surrendered. All exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: Costa Rican Colones 5.615=US$1. Official rates: buying 9 5.60, selling 9 5.67 per US$1. A free market yields an additional rate (see Table of Exchange Rates below). Exchange Payments Payments abroad through the official market require licenses. These licenses are granted only for specified essential imports and certain nontrade payments, in chronological order of applica- tion. Foreign exchange for other imports and invisibles must be purchased in the free market, and no licenses are required. Imports. Imports do not require import licenses. Payments for imports can be made freely through the free market, but if payment is to be made through the official market, an exchange license is required. These licenses are issued only for essential imports specified in a "List of Primary Needs," and in chrono- logical order of application. By contract with,the Costa Rican Government, a foreign-owned banana company uses its own ex- change for imports. Invisibles. Remittances for specified student expenses and government expenditures may be effected at the $ 5.67 rate. Earn- ings of registered foreign capital invested after January 30, 1933 (other than of foreign investments governed by special contracts) may be transferred at the <$ 5.67 rate, up to 10 per cent annually of the investment. Other payments are effected through the free market currently at $ 7.00 per U.S. dollar. Capital. Transfers of registered capital require approval and are effected at the $ 5.67 rate. Transfers of nonregistered capital 72 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA 73 may be effected at the free market rate. Certain foreign-owned investments are dealt with individually under special contracts. Exchange Receipts Exports. Exports require licenses which are usually granted if the exporter agrees to surrender the exchange proceeds at the $ 5.60 rate. Exports of goods in short supply may be restricted. A foreign-owned banana company must surrender some of the proceeds of Its exports at the $ 5.60 rate in accordance with the terms of a contract with the Government. Invisibles. Exchange receipts from certain invisibles must be surrendered at the $ 5.60 rate. Receipts from other invisibles may be sold in the free market. Capital. Exchange receipts from registered capital must be surrendered at the (ft 5.60 rate. Receipts from nonregistered and repatriated capital may be sold in the free market. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1951) (colones per U.S. dollar) Selling G o v e r n m e nt p a y- ments. Essential im- ports. Students' ex- penses. Registered capital. All other payments. 5.67 7.00 (F luc tu- ating Free Market Rate) Buying Exports. Certain invis- ibles. Registered capi- tal. All other receipts. 5.60 6.98 (Fluctu- ating Free Market Rate) Changes during 1951 June 23 The 10 per cent surcharge on sales of exchange in payment of goods in the preferential and first categories was abolished. September 29 The Law for the Control of International Transactions ex- pired and was replaced by a new International Payments Law. The surcharges of 55, 75, and 100 per cent on second, third, and fourth category imports were abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CUBA Date of Introduction Exchange tax established July 1925. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through a multiple currency prac- tice consisting of a 2 per cent exchange tax on all remittances abroad. An additional tax of 2 per cent is levied on remittances to former enemy countries.1 Payments to Spain require a license and must be effected through a special clearing account. Pay- ments to residents of China and North Korea must be made by bank transfer through a bank located in the United States. Pay- ments are not otherwise restricted. The proceeds of sugar ex- ports must be partially surrendered. Exchange Rates Par value: Cuban Peso 1=US$1. Official rates: buying P 1.00, selling P 1.02 (including 2 per cent exchange tax) and P 1.04 (with additional 2 per cent tax) per US$1. Exchange Payments An exchange tax of 2 per cent is applied only to sales of ex- change for payments abroad. Domestic sales of U.S. dollar notes and payments from domestic bank deposits denominated in U.S. dollars are free of tax. An additional tax of 2 per cent is levied on remittances to former enemy countries.1 Payments to Spain require a license and must be effected through a special clearing account. Payments to residents of China and North Korea must be made by bank transfer through a bank located in the United States. Payments are not otherwise restricted. Exchange Receipts Exports do not require licenses except a routine one on tobacco and its products and by-products which require a certificate of the Tobacco Control. Sugar and by-products also require certifi- cates of the corresponding controlling agencies to ensure the international distribution accorded. In addition, proof must be submitted for these and all other merchandise exported that the 2 per cent tax has been paid. This tax is recoverable against proof that the exported merchandise was duly landed at port of destination and that the proceeds were credited in a bank account 1 Austria and Italy have been excluded. 74 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CUBA 75 in Cuba. Through a bond given by banks the 2 per cent is not exacted if proof of credit is presented within a certain period, 180 days for the United States, 240 for other destinations, except in the case of tobacco and its products to Spain, in which case up to 720 days are allowed, owing to the system of consignment ship- ments liquidated by the Spanish tobacco monopoly, when the goods are actually sold. Thirty per cent of the exchange dollar proceeds of sugar and syrup exports must be surrendered for Cuban pesos at par. All other exchange receipts are freely dis- posable. Certain goods, mainly native hardwoods, are restricted when in short supply. Changes during 1951 February 8 Transfers to residents of China and North Korea could be effected only by bank transfer through a bank located in the United States. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CZECHOSLOVAKIA Date of Introduction October 31, 1931. Last major revision April 11, 1946. Nature of Restrictive System Authorizations of imports and exports are determined within the economic plan. Foreign trade is organized on the basis of monopolistic trade organizations dealing in specific commodities. Exchange is granted for all authorized payments. Foreign ex- change must be surrendered. Exchange Rates Par value: Korunas 50=US$1. Official Kcs 49.85, selling Kcs 50.15 per US$1. rates: buying Exchange Payments Imports. Authorizations of imports are determined within the economic plan. Exchange is automatically granted for au- thorized imports. Invisibles. Payments abroad require licenses. Residents traveling abroad may take with them a maximum of Kcs 500 monthly in domestic or foreign currency. Nonresidents travel- ing abroad may take with them Kcs 500 monthly in Czechoslovak banknotes and coins. Capital. Transfers of capital require approval. Exchange Receipts Exports. Authorizations of exports are determined within the economic plan. Exchange receipts must be surrendered. Invisibles. Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered. Persons may bring in a maximum of Kcs 500 monthly in Czechoslovak banknotes and coins. Capital. The investment of foreign capital requires approval. Exchange receipts from capital must be surrendered. Changes during 1951 No significant changes occurred. 76 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK Date of Introduction November 18,1931. Last major revision August 9, 1950. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through licenses required for im- ports and through licenses required for nontrade payments; ex- change is granted for imports and nontrade payments authorized by these licenses. Restrictions are also exercised through ad- vance deposit requirements attached to certain imports. Foreign exchange must be surrendered. Certain exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: Danish Kroner 6.90714:=US$1. Official rates: buying DKr 6.895, selling DKr 6.92 per US$1. Exchange Payments Payments to nonresidents must be made in appropriate foreign exchange or to an appropriate nonresident account. Imports. Most imports require import licenses, but certain imports from EPU countries and their associated territories1 are either free of license or licenses are freely issued. For some of these imports (e.g., textiles, piece goods, and watches), an advance deposit of 120-180 per cent of the value of the goods is required in order to obtain the import license. Two thirds of the deposit is returnable three months later, and the remaining one third, at the end of twelve months. Exchange is automati- cally granted for authorized imports. Invisibles. Payments abroad require licenses, which are freely granted for most payments. Residents traveling to specified countries are freely granted certain amounts in the appropriate currencies. Persons traveling abroad may take with them a maximum of DKr 100 in Danish banknotes. Capital. Transfers of capital generally require approval. Transfers of proceeds from matured government bonds and municipal loans and contractual repayments of private mort- gages are freely authorized. 1 These countries are listed as: Austria, Belgium, France, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland, Trieste, Turkey, Western Germany, their overseas territories, and all territories of the Sterling Area. 77 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 78 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Exchange Receipts Exports. Certain exports require licenses. Proceeds of ex- ports must be obtained from a nonresident account appropriate to the country to which the goods are destined, or in appropriate foreign exchange which must be surrendered. Invisibles. All exchange receipts must be obtained from a nonresident account appropriate to the country of remittance, or in appropriate foreign exchange which must be surrendered. Shipping and insurance companies are permitted to use their receipts of foreign exchange for payments necessary for their operations. Persons may bring in a maximum of DKr 100 in Danish banknotes. Capital. The investment of foreign capital requires approval. Exchange receipts from capital must be surrendered. Changes during 1951 February 15 A system was introduced by which advance deposits were re- quired in respect of certain liberalized imports, mainly piece goods from EPU countries. For such items, the deposit was fixed at 120 or 150 per cent, two thirds being returnable three months later and the remaining one third to be repaid at the end of twelve months. February 26 The range of commodities subject to export control was en- larged. July 2 The list of imports f rom EPU countries free f rom quantitative restrictions was extended. For these items, import licenses would be freely issued. July 16 The licensing system requiring advance deposits for certain liberalized imports from EPU countries introduced in February 1951 was extended to include textiles and clothing. For some of these items, the amount of the deposit was 180 per cent of the value of the license, returnable on the same conditions. October 17 The 20 per cent tax on sales of exchange for travel introduced on November 20, 1950 was repealed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK 79 November 13 The liberalization of imports from EPU countries against ad- vance deposits was extended to watches, the deposit for this item being 180 per cent. December 1 The range of commodities subject to export control was fur ther enlarged. December 12 It was announced that the basic annual exchange allowance for tourist travel in certain countries would be raised from DKr 500 to DKr 750 per person effective January 1, 1952. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Date of Introduction Exchange control system established July 29,1942. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through licenses required for im- ports. Exchange payments are not restricted although a licens- ing system formally exists. Certain exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: Dominican Peso 1=US$1. Official rates: buying and selling at the par value. Exchange Payments There are no restrictions on payments. Import licenses, which take the fo rm of "Recommendations to Import", are required for all goods in order to ensure equitable internal distribution of goods in world short supply or which are produced domestically in sufficient quantities. Exchange Receipts Export licenses are required for sugar, for the re-export of articles imported, and for exports whose composition or struc- ture includes imported articles. Exchange receipts are freely disposable. Changes during 1951 February 9 Pursuant to a decree of February 6, 1952 as amended by an- other decree of February 9, 1952, imports from all countries were made subject to import license. 80 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR Date of Introduction In 1932. Last major revision December 1, 1950. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through multiple currency prac- tices resulting f rom the use of two free markets, import pro- hibitions applied to certain imports, and licenses required for certain nontrade payments. Foreign exchange, with certain exceptions, must be surrendered. Multiple currency practices result on the buying side from the application of two free market rates. All exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: Sucres 15=US$1. Official rates: buying S/ 15.00, selling S/ 15.15 per US$1. The official rates and free and com- pensation1 market rates yield various effective rates (see Table of Exchange Rates below). Exchange Payments Imports. Imports require import licenses which are in most cases issued freely. Certain imports are prohibited. Essential imports are effected at the S/ 15.15 rate. Semi-essential imports are effected at the S/ 15.15 rate and are subject to a 33 per cent ad valorem tax payable at the time the goods are cleared through the Customs. For essential and semi-essential imports financed by letters of credit, domestic currency equal to the amount of the credit must be supplied. However, for goods listed as "critical articles," importers need deposit with the Central Bank only 25 per cent of the value of the goods at the time the letter of credit is opened, and the balance when the documents arrive in Ecuador. In respect of goods listed as "especially critical articles," the Central Bank will rediscount up to 100 per cent of the value of loans or of letters of credit made by commercial banks in respect of imports of these commodities. When the financing is by letter of credit, the Central Bank has to be repaid: 25 per cent when the credit is opened or, where no credit is established, when the goods arrive in Ecuador; 25 per cent within 180 days after the 1 Effec t ive February 28, 1952, the compensation system was abolished and the mixed rates eliminated. Minor exports and luxury imports were trans- ferred to the existing f ree market. 81 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 82 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS arrival of the goods; and the remaining 50 per cent within 270 days after the arrival of the goods in Ecuador. Luxury imports must be made through either a compensation market or a free market, and are subject to a 44 per cent ad valorem tax payable at the time the import license is issued. In addition, the corre- sponding foreign exchange purchased in the compensation2 or free market must be deposited with the Central Bank before the import license is issued. Invisibles. Payments abroad at the S/ 15.15 rate require licenses which are granted for certain remittances for travel, education, and maintenance. All other payments may be effected through a free market. Capital. Transfers of registered capital require approval. Payments of dividends, profits, and amortization on registered foreign capital may be eifected at the S/ 15.15 rate up to a limit which cannot be fixed at less than 12 per cent per annum of the capital investment. Investments abroad by residents and trans- fers of nonregistered capital are effected through a free market. Exchange Receipts Exports. All exports require licenses which are granted auto- matically if the exchange proceeds in convertible currency have been contractually sold in advance or guaranteed to be surren- dered. Exchange proceeds for most exports must be surrendered at the S/ 15 rate. For banana exports, US$1.20 per stem must be surrendered at the S/ 15 rate. Proceeds of petroleum and gold exports are exempt from the surrender requirement. Thirty per cent of the exchange proceeds from exports of pharmaceutical specialties, 60 per cent from balsa wood and ivory nut exports, 70 per cent from exports of embroidered white cloth items, and 100 per cent from certain other minor exports may be used for the import of specified luxury goods through the compensation market.2 Invisibles. Exchange to cover the local currency requirements of foreign owned companies must be surrendered at the S/ 15 rate. All other exchange receipts may be sold in a free market. Capital. The investment of foreign capital must be registered and surrendered at the S/ 15 rate in order to obtain a transfer guarantee. Nonregistered capital may enter through a free mar- ket in which case the transfers of capital and earnings must be made through a free market. 2 See footnote 1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR 83 Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1951) (sucres per U.S. dollar) Buying Selling 15.00 15.15 Essential and semi- essential i m p o r t s. G o v e r n m e nt n o n- trade payments. Spe- cified invisibles. Reg- istered capital. Certain luxury im- ports. Most luxury imports. O t h er i n v i s i b l e s. Nonregistered capi- tal. 17.35 (Fluctu- ating Free Market Rate) 17.80 (Fluctu- ating Com- pensation Market Rate) Note: Semi-essential and luxury imports are subject to ad valorem taxes of 33% and 44% respectively, calculated at the official rate on the c.i.f. value of the import permits. Exports other than pe- troleum, gold, and cer- tain m i n or e x p o r t s. Requirements of for- eign-owned companies for current operating costs. Registered capi- tal. Exports of pharmaceu- ticals, straw caps, and straw hats to non-U.S., non-Argentina markets, Exports of ivory nuts and balsa wood. Exports of embroidered white cloth such as nap- kins, tablecloths, etc. Straw hats exported to Argentina. 15.84 (70% at the S/ 15 rate and 30% at t he C o m- p e n s a t i on M a r k et Rate) 16.68 (40% at the S/ 15 rate and 60% at t he C o m- p e n s a t i j on M a r k et Rate) 16.96 (30% at the S/ 15 rate and 70% at t he C o m- p e n s a t i on M a r k et Rate) 17.35 (Fluctu- ating Free Market Rate) 17.80 (Fluctu- ating Com- pensation Market Rate) No te: Proceeds of banana exports must be surrendered at the S/ 15 rate only to the extent of US$1.20 per stem. I n v i s i b l e s. Nonregis- tered capital. Certain minor exports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 84 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Changes during 1951 January SO The requirement that the 33 and 44 per cent taxes on the c.i.f. value of import permits be paid in advance was suspended in respect of specified "critical articles" only. The tax on such items became payable at the same time as payment was made for the import. February 16 The list of goods which could be imported on a compensation basis was extended. March 8 Changes were made in the items listed in the three categories of imports —essential goods, use ful goods, and luxu ry articles. The Central Bank announced that importers of "critical articles" would have to deposit only 25 per cent of the value of the goods at the time the letter of credit was opened and the remainder at the time of arrival of the documents in Ecuador. April 18 A list of "especially critical articles" was issued, and special credit facilities were announced for financing imports on this list. May 18 The list of items benefiting f rom the special credit facilities was extended. May 30 The 33 per cent tax became payable only at the time payment is made for the import in respect of all goods subject to that tax. (See January 30 above.) June 1 The list of items benefiting f rom the special credit facilities was further extended. September 29 The 33 and 44 per cent taxes payable on specified imports were again to be collected at the time of issue of the import license. December 17 The 33 per cent tax payable on specified imports became pay- able only at the time of removal of the goods from the Customs or Parcel Post Office. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT Date of Introduction September 28, 1939. Last major revision July 14, 1947. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through licenses granted up to the limits of individual import quotas, #nd licenses required for non- trade payments; exchange is granted for imports and nontrade payments authorized by these licenses. Foreign exchange from current transactions must be surrendered. A few exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: Egyptian Pound 1=US$2.87156. Official rates: buying US$2.8747, selling US$2.8676 per LE 1. Exchange Control Territory There is no exchange control between Egypt and the Anglo- Egyptian Sudan, but each of the two territories has its separate exchange control system. Exchange Payments Imports. Imports require import licenses which are granted up to the limits of individual import quotas. However, imports from the Sterling Area, French Franc Area, those countries to which the United Kingdom Transferable Account arrangements apply, and certain other countries to which transfers in sterling can be made do not require licenses. Appropriate exchange is automatically granted for authorized imports, but payments for some imports originating from "hard currency" sources is made by crediting Egyptian pounds to Nonresident Export Accounts (see below). Invisibles. Payments abroad require licenses. Foreign ex- change is freely granted for expenses incidental to trade trans- actions. Certain freedom in exchange operations is granted to shipping agents. Remittances for family maintenance and stu- dents' and traveling expenses abroad to specified countries are freely authorized up to certain limits. However, remittances for 85 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 86 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS maintenance to "hard currency" countries1 are authorized up to certain limits only for nationals of those countries. The trans- fer of income and earnings to nonresidents is authorized to all countries except "hard currency" countries. Those due to "hard currency" countries are credited to nonresident accounts. Pay- ments f rom these accounts may be made for (1) investments in Egyptian Government bonds and in Egyptian registered secu- rities not redeemable within ten years; (2) subscriptions in re- spect of increase of capital in Egyptian companies in which the account holder is already a shareholder; (3) expenses of the ac- count holder and his fam i ly while in Egyp t; (4) monthly remit- tances to the account holder abroad, subject to license. Capital. Transfers of capital require approval. Capital pay- ments due to nonresidents, other than residents of the Sterling Area, are credited to nonresident accounts. Payments f rom these may be made for (1) investments in Egyptian Government bonds and in Egyptian registered securities not redeemable within ten years, (2) subscriptions in respect of increase of capital in Egyptian companies in which the account holder is already a shareholder, and (3) expenses of the account holder and his fam- ily while in Egypt up to LE 1,000 per annum. Transfers of cap- ital to residents of the United Kingdom are authorized, with cer- tain limitations, in accordance with a special agreement with the United Kingdom. Exchange is granted for the purchase in the United Kingdom of Egyptian securities by residents, provided the securities are imported into Egypt. Certain facilities exist for limited investment abroad in "soft currencies." Other invest- ments abroad by residents are prohibited. Exchange Receipts Exports. Few exports require licenses. Export proceeds must be received (1) in appropriate foreign exchange, (2) in sterling eligible for credit to an Egyptian Transferable Account in the United Kingdom, (3) in Egyptian pounds f rom a nonresident account appropriate to the country of destination, or (4) in the case of exports to certain countries, f rom a Nonresident Export 1 These countries are listed as follows: Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Can- ada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salva- dor, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Ph i l ipp ine Republic, Portuguese Monetary Area, Un i ted States and possessions, and Venezuela. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT 87 Account (see below). Exchange receipts must always be sur- rendered. Exporters of non-dollar goods sold for dollars and of cotton to the United States in excess of the Egyptian quota are granted import licenses for certain specified goods to the extent of 30 per cent of the value of their exports. This 30 per cent allocation is granted after repatriation and surrender of the full amount of the goods exported. Invisibles. Receipts from invisibles must be obtained in one of the ways applicable to export proceeds and the foreign ex- change receipts surrendered. Capital. The investment of foreign capital requires approval. Exchange receipts f rom capital must be surrendered. Nonresident Export Accounts Apart from ordinary nonresident accounts there are Non- resident Export Accounts which are used for the importation of goods of "hard currency" origin against payment in Egyptian pounds to the credit of these accounts. Goods can be exported from Egypt to specific countries by debiting these accounts. Ex- port Accounts may be credited with payments in respect of goods imported into Egypt against import licenses stipulating settle- ment to the credit of an Export Account; transfers from other Export Accounts and amounts specifically approved by the Cen- tral Exchange Control. Payments from Export Accounts may be made to residents of Egypt in settlement of goods exported from Egypt to any country other than the following: the American Account Area,2 Argentina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Federal Re- public of Germany, French Franc Area, Hungary, Japan, Poland, Portuguese Monetary Area, Saudi Arabia, Switzerland, and Yugoslavia. 2 The American Account Area is listed as follows: Bolivia, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippine Republic, United States and possessions, and Venezuela. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 88 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Changes during 1951 March The export of certain minerals was prohibited. May 3 Exporters of non-dollar goods sold for dollars and of cotton to the United States in excess of the Egyptian quota are granted import licenses for certain specified goods to the extent of 30 per cent of the value of their exports. This 30 per cent allocation is granted after repatriation and surrender of the fu ll amount of the goods exported. Exports to Japan could be paid for in sterling under certain conditions or in U.S. dollars or in goods. July The export of metal products of all types was prohibited. July 19 The annual exchange allocation for travel abroad to specified countries was reduced f rom LE 300 to LE 200 per person. September 3 Payment for imports from the Belgian Monetary Area could be settled only in pounds sterling. Payment for invisibles was normally to be settled also in pounds sterling, but applications for payment in Belgian francs would be considered. September The Belgian Monetary Area was removed from the list of countries to which the Nonresident Export Account arrange- ments do not apply. Bulgaria was added to the list of countries to which the Non- resident Export Account arrangements do not apply. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA Date of Introduction October 31, 1942. Revised September 11, 1949. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through licenses. All foreign ex- change receipts must be surrendered. All exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: Ethiopian Dollars 2.48447=US$1. Official rates: buying Eth$2.48, selling Eth$2.53 per US$1. Exchange Payments Payments outside Ethiopia must be effected in foreign ex- change appropriate to the country of the recipient. Imports. There are no import licenses but payments outside Ethiopia for imports require exchange licenses. These exchange licenses are in principle issued for "soft currencies" and only for import of goods declared as essential. Exchange licenses are also issued in "hard currency" but only for essential goods which cannot be obtained from countries with "soft currency". Ex- change licenses are issued in accordance with priority groups: essentials and various consumer goods. Invisibles. Payments abroad require exchange licenses. Per- sons traveling abroad are granted exchange on an annual limit basis in the currency of the country of destination. They may take with them a maximum of Eth$150 in Ethiopian banknotes. Exchange for such purposes as charity and maintenance is granted in moderate amounts to residents not permanently domi- ciled in Ethiopia for remittances to their own country. Exchange for education is granted to permanent and temporary residents based on documentary evidence of necessity and amount. The transfer abroad of dividends and other current earnings due to nonresidents is allowed within limits. Capital. The transfer of capital requires approval. Foreign exchange is granted for repayments abroad in respect of matured capital obligations of temporary residents. Exchange Receipts Exports. All commodities require export permits. The ex- change proceeds of all exports must be received in appropriate 89 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 90 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS foreign exchange and surrendered. The proceeds of exports of coffee and goatskins must be obtained in U.S. dollars. Invisibles. Exchange receipts must be surrendered. Persons may bring in a maximum of Eth$150 in Ethiopian banknotes. All foreign exchange must be declared by travellers on entry and its subsequent use or re-export is subject to license. Capital. Foreign exchange receipts from capital must be sur- rendered. Changes during 1951 No significant change in the exchange control system took place. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND Date of Introduction October 26, 1939. Revised April 23, 1948. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through licenses required for all imports and through licenses required for nontrade payments; exchange is granted for imports and nontrade payments author- ized by these licenses.1 Foreign exchange must be surrendered. All exports, except round t imber ,2 require licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: Markka 230=US$1. Official rates: buying Fmk 229, selling Fmk 231 per US$1. Exchange Payments Imports. All imports require import licenses. For certain goods, licenses are issued freely provided payment is to be made in Czechoslovak korunas, Danish kroner, French francs, Nether- lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, or in Argentine, Polish or West German clearing-account dollars.3 Exchange is automatically granted for authorized im- ports. Invisibles. Payments abroad require licenses. Residents traveling to certain countries are freely granted certain amounts in the appropriate currencies. Persons traveling abroad may take with them a maximum of Fmk 30,000 in Finnish banknotes per month. Capital. Transfers of capital require approval. Exchange Receipts Exports. All exports, except round t imber ,4 require licenses. Exchange receipts must be surrendered. 1 Restrictions were also exercised during part of 1951 through a multiple currency practice consisting of a 30 per cent tax on exchange granted for most travel purposes. This tax was, however, abolished at the end of the year after having been in effect for a little over six months. 2 Effective January 10, 1952, exports of round timber also became subject to license. 3 As from the beginning of March 1952, licenses were required for all im- ports. 4 See footnote 2. 91 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 92 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Invisibles. Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered. Persons may bring in a maximum of Fmk 30,000 in Finnish banknotes per month. Capital. The investment of foreign capital requires approval. Exchange receipts from capital must be surrendered. Changes during 1951 March The allowance of foreign exchange for travel in certain Euro- pean countries was increased. June 11 A tax of 30 per cent on exchange for travel purpose was im- posed. June 27 The par value of the Finnish markka was established with the International Monetary Fund at Fmk 230 per U.S. dollar. December A list of goods was published showing items for which import licenses would be freely issued provided payment was to be made in Czechoslovak korunas, Danish kroner, French francs, Nether- lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, or in Argentine, Polish, or West German clearing-account dollars.5 December 13 The amount of Finnish banknotes which could be taken out or brought in by travelers was raised f rom Fmk 20,000 to Fmk 30,000 per month. December 31 The tax of 30 per cent on exchange for travel purposes lapsed. 8 This arrangement was terminated at the beginning of March 1952. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE Date of Introduction September 9, 1939. Last major revision September 20, 1949. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through licenses required for some imports from certain countries and for most imports from all other countries, and through licenses required for nontrade payments; exchange is granted for imports and nontrade pay- ments authorized by these licenses. Foreign exchange derived from exports and invisibles in currencies quoted in the official markets, with certain exceptions, must be sold in those markets. Some exports require licenses. Exchange Rates No par value for the French Franc. There are two types of exchange rates: (1) fluctuating market rates for authorized transactions in Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Djibouti francs, Portuguese escudos, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars; the rate for the U.S. dollar remained between fr 349 and fr 350 per U.S. dollar during 1951; (2) official rates for other currencies dealt with in France calculated on the basis of their official U.S. dollar rate multiplied by the monthly average of the U.S. dollar rate in the French free market; such rates are officially altered if the free market quotation of the U.S. dollar exceeds certain percentage fluctuations. For the currencies of Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Egypt, Italy, Mexico, Netherlands, Norway, the Ster- ling Area, Sweden, Western Germany, and Yugoslavia, the authorized banks may deal with one another in an official market at rates between the official buying and selling rates for these currencies. Exchange Control Territory The French Franc Area is constituted by: 1. Metropolitan France (including Corsica), the Principality of Monaco, the Territory of the Saar, French departe- ments overseas (Algeria, Guadeloupe, Martinique, Guiana, R eun ion ), and the Protectorates of Morocco and Tunisia; 2. French West A f r ica; French Equatorial Afr ica; Trust Territories of Cameroon and Togo; Madagascar and its dependencies; Comoro Islands; St. Pierre and Miquelon; 93 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 94 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 3. French Establishments in India; 4. Associated States of Cambodia, Laos, and Vietnam; 5. New Caledonia and dependencies; French Establish- ments in Oceania; the Condominium of New Hebrides. Local currencies of these territories are pegged to the French franc at a fixed parity. French Somaliland is outside the French Franc Area and maintains no exchange restrictions. Transac- tions within the Area are formally subject to exchange controls; however, restrictions are either not applied, or are applied only to minor parts of the Area. Foreign exchange reserves of the French Franc Area are managed centrally. Exchange Payments Foreign exchange in currencies quoted in the free and official markets is obtained in those markets. Payments to nonresidents must normally be made in appropriate foreign exchange or by crediting an appropriate nonresident account in francs. Imports. Some imports from EPU countries and their asso- ciated territories1 and most imports from all other countries re- quire import licenses.2 All other imports are free of license. Ex- change is automatically granted for authorized imports. Invisibles. Payments abroad require licenses which are granted for most invisibles. Persons traveling abroad may take with them a maximum of fr 50,0003 in French banknotes. In addition, residents traveling abroad and in possession of a valid passport are granted certain amounts in the appropriate cur- rencies. Capital. All transfers of capital require approval. The pro- ceeds of the liquidation of investments made in certain cur- rencies after September 1, 1949 may be freely repatriated in appropriate exchange. Assets and balances held in France by nonresidents and appearing to the credit of "capital" accounts may be transferred between residents of the same country or monetary area or utilized for specified expenses and investments in France. 1 These countries are listed as follows: Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portu- gal, Sweden, Switzerland, Trieste, Turkey, United Kingdom, Western Ger- many, and their overseas territories. 2 By measures effective February 4 and February 19, 1952, the import liberalization measures applicable to EPU countries and their associated territories were suspended and most imports, regardless of country of ori- gin, became subject to import licensing. 8 Effective February 8, 1952, this amount was reduced to fr 20,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE 95 Exchange Receipts Exchange receipts must be obtained in appropriate foreign exchange or from appropriate nonresident accounts when the French franc is the currency of payment. With certain excep- tions, exchange receipts from exports and other commercial transactions in currencies quoted in the free and official markets must be sold in those markets. Exports. Some exports require licenses. Three per cent of the proceeds of exports to Mexico and Peru payable in the prescribed way, or of the proceeds of exports payable in Canadian dollars, Djibouti francs, or U.S. dollars or through debiting a free franc account related to French Somaliland or the dollar area4 are credited to appropriate accounts (EFAC accounts) with authorized banks at the free disposal of the exporter for his own use. Twelve per cent of the proceeds of exports settled as indicated above and 10 per cent of the pro- ceeds of exports settled in any other currency or through other nonresident accounts can be retained by exporters on EFAC accounts to cover incidental expenses connected with the mainte- nance and expansion of their export business. Invisibles. Hotels and similar institutions dealing with for- eign tourists are permitted to retain a percentage of exchange proceeds under conditions similar to those applicable to ex- porters. There is no limit on the amount of French banknotes which may be brought into France by travelers. Capital. Foreign exchange receipts of residents derived from capital are not subject to surrender. Foreign Banknotes Authorized banks in France are permitted to purchase for- eign banknotes as follows: (1) Those expressed in Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Djibouti francs, Portuguese escudos, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars can be purchased without limit as to amount and on the basis of the rate of exchange in the free market on the previous working day. Authorized banks acquiring more than their current needs of these banknotes can sell them to other authorized banks or to the Bank of France. 4 For this purpose, the dollar area is described as: Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippine Republic, United States and dependencies, and Venezuela. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 96 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS (2) Those expressed in Italian lire and not of a denomination higher than Lit 1,000 can be freely purchased at the official market rate, and sold to other authorized banks or to the Bank of France. (3) Those expressed in other currencies can be pur- chased without limit as to amount and can be sold to other authorized banks at the existing market rates for such notes. Authorized banks may sell foreign banknotes to residents traveling to the country of issue of such notes within the limits of a general license or of an individual license issued by the exchange control authority up to the amount which travelers are permitted to import into the country they are visiting. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts are denominated according to the coun- try or monetary area of the account holder. They can be freely debited for (1) payments in the French Franc Area, including payment for exports; (2) conversion in the free or official mar- ket into the currency (not banknotes) of the country of the account holder; (3) transfers to other nonresident accounts related to the same country or monetary area. These accounts can be freely credited with (1) the proceeds of the sale in the free market of U.S. dollars (including bank- notes), (2) the proceeds of the sale in the free or official market of the currency (excluding banknotes sold on the official market) of the same country or monetary area as the account to be credited, (3) transfers from Free Franc Accounts (accounts re- lated to residents of the French Somali Coast and the dollar area)5, (4) transfers from Nonresident Accounts (i.e., those not designated as Free Franc Accounts) of the same country or monetary area Nonresident Accounts, (5) income and repay- ments (not anticipated) due to the account holder on securities held by the authorized bank for the account holder, and (6) interest on the account. Changes during 1951 January 1 The nomenclature and procedure concerning the accounts of nonresidents were simplified and codified. February 12 The Exchange Stabilization Fund would no longer provide 6 On January 20, 1952, the following territories were listed as compris- ing the dollar area for this purpose: Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippine Republic, United States and dependencies, and Vene- zuela. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE 97 authorized banks with the counterpart of importers' and ex- porters' forward exchange transactions. March 1 A simplified and codified licensing and exchange control pro- cedure applicable to exports and imports was brought into operation. March 7 Balances as at March 6, 1951 on capital accounts could be, until April 15, 1951, freely transferred to ordinary nonresident accounts of the same country. June 2 All banknotes other than those expressed in Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Djibouti francs, Italian lire, Portuguese escudos, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars could be bought by authorized banks and negotiated among themselves in any amount at any rate. June 17 The regulations governing the special accounts for the re- tained precentage of export proceeds were codified. June 19 Transfers between nonresident accounts of different nation- alities related to EPU countries again became subject to license. Authorized banks were permitted to allow such transfers pro- vided the payment was in respect of a current transaction and the account to be credited did not relate to Belgium, Portugal, or Switzerland. July 1 The exchange allocation for travelers to Switzerland residing in departements adjacent to Switzerland was limited to the equivalent of fr 50,000 quarterly, instead of for each journey as previously. October 14 Payment for all imports from Belgium-Luxembourg and "liberated" goods from other EPU countries could be made only after the goods had been imported, unless an individual license was obtained. In the case of advance payment for imports from Belgium-Luxembourg, the French exchange control authority would not grant such a license, unless the Belgian exchange con- trol authorities had already given their approval to the proposed payment. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 98 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS October 31 Exports to Argentina exceeding fr 50,000 in value were made subject to an individual license from the exchange control authority. November 4 Payment for imports of "liberated" goods from EPU coun- tries other than Belgium-Luxembourg could again be made either before or after the goods were imported. The special accounts for the retained percentage of export proceeds could no longer be used to purchase securities abroad without a license. November 5 Modifying the regulation of June 19, 1951, transfers between nonresident accounts of different nationalities related to EPU countries now required an individual license from the exchange control authority. The exchange allowance for noncommercial travel to Belgium, Italy, Portugal, and Switzerland was limited to fr 50,000 per calendar year instead of for each journey as previously. Reduced limits were also laid down for business travel to those countries. December 18 Exchange for travel purposes would be granted only to residents in possession of valid passports. December 19 Exchange exceeding Sw fr 50 per calendar year for non- commercial travel to Switzerland for residents in departements adjacent to Switzerland was made subject to an individual license from the exchange control authority. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE Date of Introduction September 28, 1931. Last major revision June 1, 1951. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through licenses required for all imports and through licenses required for nontrade payments; exchange is granted for imports and nontrade payments author- ized by these licenses. Foreign exchange must be surrendered. All exports require licenses. Exchange Rates No par value for the Drachma. Official rates: buying Dr 14,940, selling Dr 15,060 per US$1. Exchange Payments Imports. All imports require import licenses granted in ac- cordance with an import licensing schedule. Exchange is auto- matically granted for authorized imports. Certain imports may be effected on a barter basis by special license and by compliance with special regulations. Invisibles. Payments abroad require licenses. Foreign ex- change is freely granted for expenses incidental to authorized trade transactions. Persons traveling abroad may take with them a maximum of Dr 50,000 in Greek banknotes. Capital. Transfers of capital abroad require approval. In- terest and amortization service of Greek securities is suspended. Exchange Receipts Exports. All exports require licenses, mainly for the purpose of ensuring the surrender of exchange receipts in the appropriate currency. Exchange proceeds of exports must be surrendered. The import rights derived from barter exports are transferable by compliance with certain regulations. Invisibles. Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered. Persons may bring in a maximum of Dr 50,000 in Greek banknotes. Capital. The investment of foreign capital requires approval whenever fu tu re repatriation and/or service thereon is intended. Exchange receipts from capital invested abroad must be sur- rendered. 99 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 100 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Changes during 1951 January 29 Liberalization measures permitting the import of certain goods without quantitative restrictions were suspended, and the import of these goods was made subject to import licensing. June 1 The exchange certificate system introduced October 19, 1947 was abolished. The price of certificates was incorporated into the official rates, leaving the effective rates still either side of Dr 15,000 per U.S. dollar. August 18 A Ministerial Decision was issued recapitulating (with slight amendments) the regulations governing the import and export of gold and gold coins. The import of gold was subject to license. Gold coins could be imported by travelers and re-exported on departure subject to customs declaration being made at the time of entry. Other exports of gold could be made only by the Bank of Greece. October 22 Special credit facilities were made available for importers of specified essential goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG Date of Introduction September 8, 1939. Last major revision August 21, 1948. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through licenses required for im- ports of certain commodities or from certain countries, through licenses required for nontrade payments, and through a multiple currency practice consisting of a free market, mainly in U.S. dollars. Foreign exchange, with certain important exceptions, must be surrendered. Certain exports require licenses.1 Exchange Rates Par value: Hong Kong Dollars 5.71429 = US$1. Agreed (offi- cial) merchant rates (December 31, 1951) : Sterling —buying Is. 3 l/32d., selling Is. 2 15/16d. per HK$1; U.S. dollar —buying HK$5.714, selling HK$5.797 per US$1. Free market rate cur- rently around HK$6.60 per US$1. All transactions in pounds sterling against Hong Kong dollars are effected at the official rates (see Table of Exchange Rates below). Exchange Payments Imports. A few specified imports from China, Indo-China, Indonesia, Macao, the Philippine Republic, the Sterling Area, Thailand, and the United States require import licenses. Other imports from these territories are free of license. Imports from other countries require import and exchange licenses. Foreign exchange, other than U.S. dollars, in payment for authorized imports may be obtained at the rate corresponding to the HK$5.797 rate. U.S. dollar exchange at the HK$5.797 rate is nor- mally authorized only for a few imports regarded as strictly es- sential. For other authorized imports payable in U.S. dollars, foreign exchange must be obtained in the free market. Invisibles. Payments at the HK$5.797 rate require licenses. Payments may be freely effected through the free market by holders of Hong Kong dollars. All transfers to other parts of the Sterling Area require licenses except for dividend and interest payments which are freely permitted. Capital. Transfers of capital in currencies other than U.S. dollars may be effected at the HK$5.797 rate but they require licenses. Transfers of capital may be freely effected through the 1 Export licensing in Hong Kong, as in some other areas, is not related to exchange control. 101 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 102 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS free market by holders of Hong Kong dollars but all transfers to other parts of the Sterling Area require licenses. Exchange Receipts Exports. The export of certain strategic articles to any desti- nation requires a license. Payment for exports must be collected by one of the methods, prescribed by regulations, appropriate to the country of destination of the goods. The U.S. dollar pro- ceeds of most Hong Kong exports originating in China, Hong Kong, Macao, or Korea are freely disposable. The U.S. dollar proceeds from exports originating in other countries must be entirely surrendered. The U.S. dollar export proceeds of (1) cotton yarn, (2) lead, silver (subject to prior permission), and tin, (3) coffee, and (4) wood oil, originating in China, Hong Kong, Macao, or Korea, must be surrendered to the extent of 50 per cent, 25 per cent, 20 per cent, and 15 per cent, respectively. The remaining percentage may be sold in the free market. Ex- change proceeds in other currencies from exports to countries other than China, Korea, Macao, and the Sterling Area must be received in foreign exchange appropriate to the country of destination and surrendered. All exchange proceeds from ex- ports to China, Korea, Macao, and the Sterling Area are freely disposable. Invisibles. The receipt of transfers from other parts of the Sterling Area requires permission, unless in respect of dividends or interest. The surrender of exchange receipts from invisibles is not always insisted upon. Capital. The receipt of capital from other parts of the Sterling Area requires permission. The surrender of exchange receipts from capital is not always insisted upon. Nonresident Accounts Credits to the accounts of banks situated outside the Sterling Area, China, and Macao require licenses. Payments from these accounts may be made to residents of Hong Kong, including pay- ments for exports to the respective countries invoiced in Hong Kong dollars. Credits to the accounts of persons and firms resident in the North American continent and the Philippine Republic require licenses. Credits to such accounts of other countries do not require licenses. All transfers between Hong Kong and other Sterling Area territories require licenses. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG 103 Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 29, 1951) (sterling per Hong Kong dollar or Hong Kong dollars per U.S. dollar) Is. 3 l/32d. HK$5.714 HK$6.157 (50% at the H K $ 5 . 7 14 r a te a nd 50% at the Free Mar- ket Rate) HK$6.378 (25% at the HK $ 5 . 7 14 r a te a nd 75% at the Free Mar- ket Rate) HK$6.423 (20% at the HK $ 5 . 7 14 r a te a nd 80% at the Free Mar- ket Rate) HK$6.467 (15% at the HK $ 5 . 7 14 r a te a nd 85% at the Free Mar- ket Rate) HK$6.600 (approx.) (Fluctu- ating Free Market Rate) Buying All transactions in ster- ling against Hong Kong dollars. (Rates for non- dollar currencies are based on sterling rate.) Exports not originating in China, Hong Kong, Macao, and Korea pay- able in U.S. dollars. Cotton yarn exports.1 Selling ls.215/16d. or All transactions in Hong Kong dollars against sterling. HK$5.797 as appropri- ate A few essential im- ports payable in U.S. dollars. Authorized invisibles and capi- tal. All non-dollar imports. Lead, silver, and tin ex- ports.1 Copper exports.1 Wood oil exports.1 All other exports. visibles and capital. In- HK$6.600 (approx.) (Fluctu- ating Free Market Rate) A ll o t h er im p o r ts payable in U.S. dol- lars. Other invisibles and capital. 1 Originating in China, Hong Kong, Macao, or Korea and received in U.S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 104 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Changes during 1951 June 25 The import and export to any destination of goods on a list of strategic materials became subject to license. October 2 It was announced that trade between Hong Kong and Japan would be conducted exclusively on a sterling basis and that the previously-existing Open Account arrangements would be brought to a close. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND Date of Introduction October 2,1931. Last major revision March 8,1951. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through licenses required for cer- tain imports, through licenses required for nontrade payments, and through a multiple currency practice consisting of premiums payable for exchange certificates required for specified imports; imports are prohibited if they have not been paid for or ex- change has not been secured through an Icelandic bank before shipment. Foreign exchange must be surrendered. A multiple currency practice results on the buying side from the distribu- tion to certain exporters of the premiums obtained from certain importers. All exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: Icelandic Kronur 16.2857 = US$1. Official rates: buying IKr 16.26, selling IKr 16.32 per US$1. The negotiation of import and exchange certificates at fixed prices produces other effective rates (see Table of Exchange Rates below). Exchange Payments Imports. Imports, regardless of other requirements, can be effected only if they have already been paid for or cover has been secured through an Icelandic bank before shipment. Cer- tain imports require import and exchange licenses, which are issued in combined form. Specified goods can be imported from any source without such licenses. Certain goods may also be imported without such licenses from EPU and clearing agree- ment countries, as can also a few items from dollar area coun- tries, with certificates derived from the proceeds of certain exports —products of the small fishing boat industry, except cod- liver oil, herring and herring products .x Such certificates are acquired through the payment of a premium according to the country from which the import is to be obtained: 60 per cent of the nominal value in the case of imports from EPU and dollar 1 Effective January 5, 1952, certificates derived from exports paid in EPU or dollar area currencies could be used for imports from any country. 105 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 106 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS area countries and 25 per cent for imports from clearing coun- tries. 2 Invisibles. Payments abroad require licenses. Foreign ex- change is freely granted for expenses incidental to trade trans- actions. Residents traveling abroad may take with them a maxi- mum of IKr 150 in foreign banknotes and coins. Capital. Transfers of capital require approval, which is granted only in exceptional circumstances. Exchange Receipts Exports. All exports require licenses. Exchange receipts must be surrendered, and exporters of products of the small fish- ing boat industry, except codliver oil, herring and herring prod- ucts, obtain, in addition, a certificate nominally equivalent to 50 per cent of the exchange surrendered, which can be exchanged for another certificate valid for certain imports or can be sold at a fixed premium for use by importers. This premium is 60 per cent for exports to EPU and dollar area countries and 25 per cent for exports to clearing countries. A commission is deducted making the net premiums paid 59 per cent and 24 per cent respectively. Invisibles. Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered. Shipowners and insurance companies are permitted to use a portion of their exchange earnings for operating purposes. Capital. Exchange receipts from capital must be surren- dered. 2 These are listed as follows: Austria, Czechoslovakia, Finland, Hungary, Israel, Poland, and Spain. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND 107 Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1951) (Icelandic kronur per U.S. dollar) Selling 16.26 Other exports, bles. Capital. Invisi- 16.32 Other imports. Invis- ibles. Capital. 18.22 ( IKr 16.26 p l us 2 4% premium on h a lf t he amount) E x p o r ts to c l e a r i ng agreement countries of most products of small fishing boat industry. 21.07 (IKr 16.26 p l us 5 9% premium on h a lf t he amount) Exports to EPU and dollar area countries of most products of small fishing boat industry. Listed imports from clearing countries. 20.39 ( IKr 16.32 r a te p l us 2 5% p r e- m ium) 26.09 ( IKr 16.32 r a te p l us 6 0% p r e- mium) Listed imports from EPU and dollar area countries. Changes during 1951 March 8 Exporters of products of the small fishing boat industry, ex- cept codliver oil, herring and herring products, could obtain in respect of exports to EPU countries, a transferable import cer- tificate up to 50 per cent of the exchange surrendered permitting the import of goods on a "conditional" free list from any EPU or clearing agreement country or of a few listed commodities from the dollar area. A 50 per cent premium was payable on such imports from EPU and dollar area countries and 25 per cent on imports from clearing countries. April 6 The list of goods which would be imported from any source without an import or exchange certificate was considerably ex- tended. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 108 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS April 11 In connection with the special arrangements for exporters of products of the small fishing boat industry, the certificates issued to such exporters had to be exchanged for certificates of another type in order to enable the import to be effected. The premium to be paid by buyers of certificates was fixed at 60 per cent of the nominal value for imports from EPU and dollar area coun- tries and 25 per cent for imports from clearing countries. April 17 Modifying the arrangements for exporters of products of the small fishing boat industry (see March 8 above), certain of the listed goods could now be imported only from countries with which Iceland has a bilateral or other clearing agreement, namely Austria, Czechoslovakia, Finland, Hungary, Israel, Poland, and Spain. July 13 The list of goods which could be imported from any source without an import or exchange certificate was again extended. August 23 Aircraft propellers and spare parts were withdrawn from the "conditional" free list. September 21 A few goods which could be imported from dollar area coun- tries were added to the "conditional" free list. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA Date of Introduction September 3, 1939. Last major revision August 14, 1947. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through import prohibitions, through licenses required for nonprohibited imports, and through licenses required for nontrade payments; exchange is granted for imports and nontrade payments authorized by these licenses. Foreign exchange from exports must be surrendered. Exchange receipts from invisibles and capital in Philippine pesos and U.S. dollars must be surrendered. Some exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: Indian Rupees 4.76190 = US$1. Official rates: buy- ing Rs 4.765, selling Rs 4.805 per US$1. Exchange Control Territory There are no exchange restrictions on transactions with Nepal, Tibet, and the French and Portuguese possessions in India. For most exchange control purposes, nationals of Nepal and Tibet are regarded as residents of the exchange control territory of India. Exchange Payments Payments to Sterling Area territories other than Pakistan must be made in the currency of a territory in the Sterling Area. Payments to Pakistan must be made in Pakistan or Indian rupees. Payments to outside the Sterling Area must be effected either in the foreign exchange appropriate to the country of the recipient or by crediting the appropriate sterling or rupee ac- count of a nonresident. Imports. Certain imports from "hard currency" countries * and all imports from the Union of South Africa are prohibited. Most imports require import licenses. A few imports are freely permitted from all countries except the Union of South Africa. 1 These countries are listed as follows: Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Liberia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippine Republic, United States and possessions, and Venezuela. 109 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 110 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Some imports are freely permitted from all countries other than "hard currency" countries and the Union of South Africa. Ex- change is automatically granted for authorized imports. Invisibles. Payments abroad require licenses. Foreign ex- change is freely granted for expenses incidental to trade trans- actions, transfers abroad of dividends and other earnings due to nonresidents. Foreign exchange for family maintenance is granted for remittances to Pakistan and to residents who are not permanently domiciled in India for remittances to their own country. Foreign exchange is not granted for travel (other than for business purposes) to the Philippines and the continent of America, with the exception of Brazil, Chile, Paraguay, Peru, and Uruguay. Exchange for travel to Brazil, Chile, Paraguay, Peru, and Uruguay requires a license. Residents traveling to other countries are freely granted certain amounts in the appro- priate currencies. Capital. Transfers of capital require approval. Transfers due to persons residing in other parts of the Sterling Area (other than Pakistan), Denmark, Norway, and Sweden are freely au- thorized. Capital owned by residents of countries other than Sterling Area or Scandinavian countries invested after January 1, 1950 in projects approved by the Government can be repatri- ated to the extent of the original rupee investment and to the extent of profits ploughed back with the approval of the Govern- ment. Capital transfers are authorized in limited amounts in cases of emigration. Exchange Receipts Exports. Certain commodities, mostly of a type essential to the national economy, require export licenses. The exchange pro- ceeds of all exports must be received (1) in appropriate foreign exchange, (2) in sterling from an account appropriate to the country of destination, or (3) in rupees from the account of a bank in the country of destination of the export. Receipts in foreign exchange must be surrendered. Invisibles. Exchange receipts from invisibles in Philippine pesos and U.S. dollars must be surrendered. All other exchange may be retained but its disposal requires a license. Capital. Exchange receipts from capital in Philippine pesos and U.S. dollars must be surrendered. All other exchange may be retained but its disposal requires a license. The investment of foreign capital requires approval. If the investment is in a project approved by the Government of India, a guarantee of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 111 subsequent repatriation is given. Exchange receipts from for- eign capital investment are required to be surrendered. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts (see Exchange Control Territory above) of firms and individuals can be freely credited and debited with certain small amounts, but approval is required for all other entries. The nonresident accounts of banks are freely available (1) for transfer to other banks in the same country or monetary area, (2) for payment to residents of India for exports to the country or monetary area where the bank is located, and (3) for other payments to residents in India not exceeding Rs 20,000. All other payments from these accounts are subject to license. Changes during 1951 February 27 All financial transactions with Afghanistan and Pakistan be- came subject to exchange control. The Reserve Bank of India announced official rates for the Pakistan rupee. March 9 All "soft currency" and general import licenses were made valid for imports from Pakistan and two existing Open General Licenses were extended to cover imports from Pakistan. March 13 Import licenses issued for the period January-June 1951 were, for most goods, doubled in value, and this period of validity was extended by six months to cover the period July-December 1951. An existing Open General License permitting certain imports without limit as to amount from any country (except the Union of South Afr ica) until June 30, 1951 was extended to December 31,1951, and the list of goods to which this applied was also extended. April 25 The basic exchange allowance for personal travel in "soft cur- rency" countries was raised from £450 per three years to £600 per two years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 112 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS June 12 An Open General License was issued permitting until June 30, 1952 the import of a range of essential goods without limit as to amount from any country except the Union of South Africa. June 15 Those import licenses entitled to be doubled in value (see March 13 above) were deemed to be automatically valid for additional imports up to 10 per cent of the value of the original January-June 1951 license. October 17 Exports to Iran could be made only against advance payment or the opening of an irrevocable letter of credit. October 21 Japan ceased to be regarded as a "hard currency" country. December 15 Moderate remittances to Pakistan for family maintenance were permitted. December 17 Official rates for the U.S. dollar and certain other non-sterling currencies, which are based on the official rates in London, and which had been stable since September 1949, began to fluctuate in accordance with the fluctuations within official limits inaugu- rated in the United Kingdom at this time. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN Date of Introduction February 1930. Last major revision December 27, 1951. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through import prohibitions, li- censes required for certain nonprohibited imports, licenses for nontrade payments, and through a multiple currency practice resulting from a fluctuating exchange certificate rate. Foreign exchange must be surrendered. A multiple currency practice re- sults on the buying side from the application of a fluctuating ex- change certificate rate in addition to the official rate. Exchange Rates Par value: Rials 32.25 — US$1. Official rates: buying Rls 32.00, selling Rls 32.50 per US$1. The exchange certificate mar- ket yields a fluctuating rate applicable to most trade transac- tions (see Table of Exchange Rates below). Exchange Payments Imports. Imports of nonessential goods and certain goods of a type produced locally are prohibited. Payments for govern- ment imports are effected at the Rls 32.50 rate. Certain essen- tial goods can be imported free of license, while other nonprohib- ited goods require a special license from the Exchange Control Committee. Importers must obtain exchange certificates from exporters at the fluctuating exchange certificate rate, currently yielding an effective rate of Rls 64.75 per US$1. Where imports are financed by letters of credit, an advance deposit of 100 per cent of the total value of the credit must be made. Invisibles. Payments abroad require licenses. Authorized payments in respect of medical and educational expenses of Iranians already residing abroad are made at the Rls 32.50 rate. Persons traveling abroad may take with them a maximum of Rls 1,000 in Iranian banknotes. Capital. Transfers of capital require approval. Exchange Receipts Exports. Exports of nonprohibited goods do not require li- censes, but exporters must undertake to surrender the proceeds. 113 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 114 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Proceeds of exports must be surrendered at the Rls 32 rate and, in addition, an exchange certificate, which can be sold in a free market, is issued for the amount surrendered. Invisibles. Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered at the Rls 32 rate. Persons may bring in a maximum of Rls 1,000 in Iranian banknotes. Capital. Exchange receipts from capital must be surrendered at the Rls 32 rate. The investment of capital by foreign-owned companies may, under special arrangements, obtain a transfer guarantee. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1951) (rials per U.S. dollar) 32.00 Buying Invisibles. Capital. 32.50 All exports. 64.25 (Rls 32.00 r a te p l us Fluctuating E x c h a n ge Ce r t i f ica te Rate) Changes during 1951 64.75 (Rls 32.50 r a te p l us Fluctuating E x c h a n ge C e r t i f i c a te Rate) Selling G o v e r n m e nt p a y- ments. Medical and educational expenses of Iranians abroad.1 Authorized imports. January 14 The deposits required by official regulation to establish letters of credit in respect of import payments were raised from 50 per cent to 80 per cent for essential goods and 100 per cent for nonessential goods. February 19 The deposits officially required to establish import letters of credit were reduced to 30 per cent for machinery imports and 50 per cent for all other goods. April 19 Import quotas, valid until March 20, 1952, were re-introduced —the number of items requiring quota registration before pay- ment was effected was reduced from 49 to 20. 1 Exchange at the official rate for medical expenses is not provided in U.S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN 115 June 4 The deposits officially required to establish import letters of credit were raised to 75 per cent. June 25 The rate at which export proceeds must be surrendered was lowered from Rls 48.25 to Rls 46.75. The rates for exchange in payment of essential and other authorized imports were changed from Rls 40.00 to Rls 41.50 and from Rls 48.75 to Rls 47.25, respectively. July 7 The deposits officially required to establish import letters of credit were raised to 100 per cent. Tea, ironware, chemical dyes, and electrical appliances, pre- viously classified as essential imports, were re-classified as non- essential. September 11 Commercial foreign exchange transactions in respect of dollar imports were suspended. In respect to the Sterling Area, for- eign exchange transactions were limited to a few essential items. December 4 The fixed exchange certificate rates were suspended and a fluctuating rate took its place. Exchange for imports could be obtained at the official rate from the central bank provided the importer surrendered an exchange certificate obtained from ex- porters in the free market. December 27 Imports were limited to 36 essential items. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ Date of Introduction November 24, 1941. Major revision, August 1950. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through import prohibitions, im- port quotas allocated to individual importers, and licenses re- quired for nontrade payments; exchange is granted for imports unless the license specifies otherwise. Foreign exchange, other than Sterling Area currencies, arising from exports must be surrendered. Exchange receipts from invisibles and capital in Swiss francs and U.S. dollars must be surrendered. A few ex- ports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: Iraqi Dinar 1 — US$2.80. Official rates: buying US$2.80875, selling US$2.785 per ID 1.1 Exchange Payments Payments to other parts of the Sterling Area must be effected in a currency of the Sterling Area. Payments to outside the Sterling Area must be effected either in foreign exchange appro- priate to the country of the recipient or by crediting the appro- priate sterling account of a nonresident. Imports. Certain imports are prohibited. All otlier imports require import licenses. These are granted to importers up to the amount of their individual import quotas. Certain items may be imported from "scarce currency" countries 2 by owners of registered factories provided the goods are not available in "soft currency" countries. Exchange is automatically granted where the import license specifies the allocation of exchange. For certain goods, import licenses are issued on the understand- ing that the importer provides his own exchange. 1 On January 3, 1952, it was announced that the National Bank would quote official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar based on the rate prevailing in the London market. Authorized exchange dealers in Iraq are required to apply these official rates to their transactions with their cus- tomers. 2 These countries are listed as follows: Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippine Republic, United States and possessions, and Venezuela. 116 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ 117 Invisibles. Payments to outside the Sterling Area require licenses. Foreign exchange is freely granted for expenses inci- dental to trade transactions. Foreign exchange is freely granted to foreign nationals resident in Iraq, up to certain limits, for the purposes of family maintenance and foreign travel. Capital. Transfers of capital to outside the Sterling Area require approval. Exchange Receipts Exports. Certain exports are prohibited, while exports of essential goods in short supply require licenses. The exchange proceeds of all exports to outside the Sterling Area must be received (1) in acceptable foreign exchange, (2) in sterling from an account appropriate to the country of destination, or (3) in the case of a limited number of non-Sterling Area coun- tries, in Iraqi currency from a nonresident account. Foreign ex- change proceeds in other than Sterling Area currencies must be surrendered. Invisibles. Exchange receipts from invisibles in Swiss francs and U.S. dollars must be surrendered. Capital. Exchange receipts from capital in Swiss francs and U.S. dollars must be surrendered. Changes during 1951 January 11 A list was published of 48 commodities whose import was pro- hibited. February 19 Argentina and the Portuguese Monetary Area were removed from the list of "scarce currency" countries, in which only Can- ada and the American Account countries remained. June 27 Foreign exchange for traveling, living, and medical expenses by residents wishing to travel outside Iraq was to be granted to the extent of ID 100 per person per month for not more than three months in any one year. August 15 Authorized dealers could no longer purchase their U.S. dol- lar requirements directly from London but only through the National Bank of Iraq. November Certain essential commodities could be imported free of im- port license. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY Date of Introduction September 29, 1931. Revised September 19, 1949. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through licenses required for a few imports from certain countries and for most imports from all other countries, and through licenses required for nontrade pay- ments ; exchange is granted for imports and nontrade payments authorized by these licenses. Foreign exchange in U.S. and Canadian dollars must be 50 per cent surrendered; the remain- ing 50 per cent must be used by holders for authorized payments or sold on the free market. Foreign exchange in other curren- cies must be entirely surrendered. Many exports require licenses. Exchange Rates No par value for the Italian Lira. There are market rates for the U.S. dollar. All import transactions in U.S. dollars are con- ducted at the market rate. The dollar proceeds of exports are 50 per cent surrendered and 50 per cent credited to exchange accounts negotiable at the market rate. The averages of the closing market rates for the U.S. dollar on the Rome and Milan exchanges are recognized as the official rates. Owing to the stability of the market rate, effective rates for export and im- port transactions are practically identical (dur ing 1951 the rate for the U.S. dollar remained between Lit 624 and Lit 625 per U.S. dollar). Rates for all other currencies are fixed on the basis of the official U.S. dollar rate in Italy and the official U.S. dollar rate in the respective country. Exchange Control Territory The Free Territory of Trieste and the Republic of San Marino are included in the exchange control territory of Italy. Exchange Payments U.S. and Canadian dollars are acquired on the free market, while foreign exchange in other currencies is acquired at the offi- cial rate (calculated on the basis of the U.S. dollar ra te). Imports. Only a few imports from EPU countries and their associated territories l and most imports f rom all other countries 1 These countries are listed as follows: Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portu- gal, Sweden, Switzerland, Trieste, Turkey, United Kingdom, Western Ger- many, and their overseas territories. 118 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY 119 require import licenses. All other imports are free of license. Ex- change is automatically granted for authorized imports. Tempo- rary arrangements exist by which Italian importers can borrow EPU currencies at specially reduced interest rates in order to encourage additional imports from those countries. Invisibles. Payments abroad require licenses. Foreign ex- change is freely granted for expenses incidental to trade trans- actions. Persons traveling abroad may take with them a maxi- mum of Lit 30,000 in Italian banknotes in denominations not exceeding Lit 1,000. Tourists traveling to EPU countries may freely obtain exchange to the value of Lit 200,000 per person per year. Favorable treatment is accorded to earnings on invest- ments in Italy made in freely transferable Swiss francs or in U.S. dollars. Capital. Transfers of capital require approval. Transfers of foreign capital originally invested in freely transferable Swiss francs, or U.S. or Canadian dollars, on or after April 7, 1948 may be made as follows: (1) earnings are freely transferable in the currency originally surrendered, provided that the rate of earnings does not exceed the legal rate by 1 per cent; (2) pro- ceeds from the liquidation of such investments may be freely transferred within the limit of the value of the capital invested, provided that such a transfer is effected after two years from the date of investment, and for each succeeding period of two years does not exceed 50 per cent of the value of the original investment; (3) proceeds of liquidation of capital goods pur- chased abroad with freely transferable Swiss francs, or U.S. or Canadian dollars, may be freely transferred under the same con- ditions as above after five years. Amounts which may not be transferred because they exceed the above-mentioned limits are credited to special accounts. Exchange Receipts Exchange receipts in U.S. or Canadian dollars must be 50 per cent surrendered, while the remaining 50 per cent must be used by holders for authorized payments or sold on the free market. All other exchange receipts must be entirely surrendered. Exports. Certain exports require licenses. Invisibles. Persons may bring in Italian banknotes in any amount but not in denominations exceeding Lit 1,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 120 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Capital. The investment of foreign capital requires approval. Investments made in freely transferable Swiss francs, or in U.S. or Canadian dollars, are accorded preferential treatment. Changes during 1951 January 20 Additions were made to the list of items that could be imported without an import license. February The various lists of goods subject to export license were re- placed by a single list containing about 650 items. June 4 New regulations governing the importation of goods payable in pounds sterling were introduced. Imports could no longer be paid for in Australian, New Zealand, South African, or Egyptian pounds, or in rupees. July 7 Measures were taken to make more effective exchange con- trols over the invoicing of exports and imports, the use of ex- change allocated for imports, and the surrender of export pro- ceeds. August 28 Forward transactions through authorized banks in foreign ex- change on an exact counterpart basis as to amount and matu- rity date were permitted. September 6 Further additions were made to the list of items which could be imported without an import license. October 8 A fur ther list of goods from EPU countries free from import restriction became effective. October 31 Advance payments exceeding Lit 5,000,000 in respect of ex- ports to EPU countries, when the export would take place later than 90 days after the payment has been made, became subject to individual license being obtained from the exchange control authority. November 1 Valid until May 1, 1952, import license requirements were lifted in respect of nearly all imports from EPU countries, and Italian importers could be provided with loans in EPU curren- cies at specially reduced interest rates in order to encourage additional imports from those countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON Date of Introduction December 3, 1939. Last major revision September 26, 1949. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through a multiple currency practice resulting from the use of a free market with rates differing from parity by more than 1 per cent, and through licenses required for a few imports. Foreign exchange in specified currencies from invisibles and capital, if sold, must be partially surrendered at the official rate. A multiple currency practice results on the buying side from the application of different effective rates. A few exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: Lebanese Pounds 2.19148=US$1. Official rates: buying LL 2.19, selling LL 2.21 per US$1. The official rates and the use of a free market rate yield various effective rates (see Table of Exchange Rates below). Exchange Payments Imports. All imports require licenses which are restrictively applied only to a few commodities of a type produced locally. Imports are effected through the free market, currently at LL 3.80 per U.S. dollar, or with the importer's own exchange. Invisibles. Payments abroad may be freely effected if the remitter provides his own exchange or purchases it in the free market. Capital. Transfers of capital abroad may be freely effected, but the remitter must provide his own exchange or purchase it in the free market. Exchange Receipts Exports. A few exports require licenses. Exchange proceeds are freely disposable. Invisibles. Exchange receipts from invisibles in the specified currencies1 may be retained and used, but if sold, 10 per cent must be surrendered at the LL 2.19 rate, and the remainder may be sold in the free market.2 Earnings from summer tourism are exempt from the 10 per cent surrender requirement. Com- 1 These currencies are listed as follows: Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Egyptian pounds, Swiss francs, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. 2 Effective January 30, 1952, the 10 per cent surrender requirement was abolished. 121 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 122 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS panies operating under special contract must sell at the LL 2.19 rate 80 per cent of the specified currencies to be sold, and the remainder may be sold in the free market. Exchange receipts in other currencies are freely disposable. Capital. Exchange receipts from capital in the specified cur- rencies may be retained and used, but if sold, 10 per cent must be surrendered at the LL 2.19 rate and the remainder may be sold in the free market.3 Exchange receipts in other currencies are freely disposable. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1951) (Lebanese pounds per U.S. dollar) Buying Selling G o v e r n m e nt p a y- ments. 2.21 Sales of specified cur- rencies by companies operating under con- tract. Invisibles (except sum- mer tourism) and capi- tal in specified curren- cies. All exports. Earnings from summer tourism. All invisibles and capi- tal in non-specified cur- rencies. 3.80 (Fluctu- ating Free Market Rate) All other payments. 2.19 2.512* (80% at the LL 2.19 rate and 20% at t he F r ee M a r k et Rate) 3.6395 (10% at the LL 2.19 rate and 90% at t he F r ee M a r k et Rate) 3.80 (Fluctu- ating Free Market Rate) Changes during 1951 No significant changes took place during 1951. 3 Effective January 30, 1952, the 10 per cent surrender requirement was abolished, eliminating the resulting mixed rate. 4 Effective May 24, 1952, this mixing arrangement was abolished, such transactions then being effected entirely at the free rate. 6 See footnote 3. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS Date of Introduction May 10, 1940. Last major revision October 20, 1945. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through licenses required for most imports and through licenses required for nontrade payments; exchange is granted for imports and nontrade payments author- ized by these licenses. Foreign exchange, with certain excep- tions, must be surrendered. Exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: Netherlands Guilders 3.80 = US$1. Official rates: buying f 3.795, selling f 3.805 per US$1. Exchange Control Territory The Netherlands and its overseas territories constitute the Netherlands Monetary Area. The Republic of Indonesia par- ticipates in several of the Netherlands monetary agreements. Current payments between various parts of this exchange con- trol territory are effected through controlled accounts. Exchange Payments Imports. Most imports require import licenses. These are freely granted for most imports from EPU countries and their as- sociated territories.1 Appropriate exchange is automatically granted for authorized imports, but payment prior to shipment requires special approval. Invisibles. Payments abroad require licenses. Foreign ex- change is freely granted for expenses incidental to trade trans- actions. Other exchange payments are effected either in ac- cordance with general licenses by which exchange for certain purposes is freely granted up to certain limits in specified cur- rencies, or with individual licenses. Residents traveling abroad may take with them a maximum of f 50 in Netherlands bank- notes which must be re-imported. In addition, residents travel- ing to EPU countries, Finland, and Spain are granted the coun- tervalue in the appropriate currency of f 400 per year. Non- 1 These countries are listed as follows: Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland, Trieste, Turkey, United Kingdom, Western Germany, and their overseas territories. 123 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 124 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS residents may take with them a maximum of f 100 in Nether- lands banknotes. Capital. Transfers on capital account are approved only in exceptional cases. Foreign capital invested after November 1, 1950 in manufacturing enterprises in the Netherlands by the acquisition of shares can be repatriated after three years. Exchange Receipts Exports. All exports require a license mainly for the purpose of insuring the surrender of exchange receipts in the appropriate currency. Foreign exchange from exports must be surrendered, but 10 per cent of the proceeds of exports to Canada and the United States2 may be retained and utilized by exporters for authorized payments. Invisibles. Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered. Companies having extensive foreign dealings may be authorized to keep accounts in foreign exchange abroad or on the books of an authorized bank in the Netherlands for operating purposes. Nonresidents may bring a maximum of f 100 in Netherlands banknotes and any amount of foreign banknotes, which may be sold only to an authorized bank or authorized exchange office. Capital. The investment of foreign capital requires approval. A guarantee of repatriation after three years is provided for foreign capital invested after November 1, 1950 in manufactur- ing enterprises in the Netherlands. Exchange receipts from capital must be surrendered. Foreign Banknotes Authorized banks in the Netherlands are permitted to pur- chase, from persons coming from abroad, foreign banknotes other than United States and Swiss banknotes at rates not ex- ceeding official ceiling rates. They are authorized to sell them under certain conditions to travelers going abroad. United States and Swiss banknotes are purchased only at official rates. 2 Effective February 11, 1952, this facility was extended to most export proceeds obtained in Canadian or U.S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS 125 Changes during 1951 April 4 Spain was added to the list of countries in which the basic allocation of exchange for tourists was available. May 17 Payment for imports prior to their importation became sub- ject, with certain exceptions, to a special license. A 25 per cent deposit in guilders had to be made by purchasers of exchange for forward delivery. November 27 The advance deposit required for forward exchange purchases was reduced from 25 per cent to 10 per cent. December 20 The advance deposit requirement of 10 per cent for forward exchange purchases was abolished. The maximum permitted time-limit of forward contracts was reduced from 12 months to 6 months. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA Date of Introduction November 13, 1931. Last major revision November 9, 1950. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through licenses for nontrade pay- ments, and through multiple currency practices resulting from two fixed rates in addition to the official rate and from the ap- plication of various exchange taxes. Foreign exchange, with certain exceptions, must be surrendered. A multiple currency practice results on the buying side from the application of a fixed rate and a mixing rate. All exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: Cordobas 5 = US$1. Basic official rates: buying and selling at the par value. Other buying and selling rates and the use of surcharges yield various effective rates (see Table of Exchange Rates below). Transactions in foreign notes and coins, mainly U.S. dollar notes, result in a free market rate; such foreign notes may not be exported. Exchange Payments Imports. All imports require licenses which are freely granted if the importer deposits in cordobas 100 per cent of the value involved and, in the case of semi-essential and non-es- sential imports, the appropriate exchange surcharge (see below) is paid in advance. Licenses are granted to foreign-owned com- panies for imports authorized in their contracts, but such im- ports must be paid for with their own exchange. Government imports and specified commercial obligations contracted in 1950 are effected within certain limits at the C$5.0375 rate. Essential imports are effected at the C$7.0525 rate. Semi-essential and non-essential imports are subject to surcharges of C$1 and C$3, respectively, on the C$7.0525 rate, yielding effective rates of C$8.0525 and C$10.0525 per U.S. dollar. Invisibles. Payments abroad require licenses. Certain gov- ernment payments, such as for debt service and diplomatic ex- penses, are made at the C$5 rate. A few specified invisibles, such as students' expenses and insurance premiums, are effected at the C$7.0525 rate. In the case of medical treatment abroad, 126 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA 127 proven expenses are adjusted to the C$8.0525 rate. Payments for most other invisibles are effected at the C$10.0525 rate. Capital. Transfers of capital require approval, except that foreign-owned companies may transfer their capital and earn- ings as stipulated by their respective contracts. Transfers of registered capital may be effected at the C$7.0525 rate and are limited to a maximum of 10 per cent annually of the investment. Exchange Receipts Exports. Exports require licenses which are usually granted if the exporter agrees to surrender the exchange proceeds at the C$6.60 rate (20 per cent at C$5 rate and 80 per cent at C$6.9825 or C$7 rate according to the commodity). Foreign-owned com- panies must surrender export proceeds at the C$6.60 rate to the extent of their local currency requirements. Invisibles. Exchange receipts from invisibles other than for- eign banknotes and coins must be surrendered at the C$6.60 rate. Foreign banknotes and coins may be sold in the free market. Capital. Exchange receipts from capital, other than foreign banknotes and coins, must be surrendered at the C$6.60 rate. The investment or reinvestment of capital by foreign-owned companies operating under special contracts is made according to the terms of the contract. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 128 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1951) (cordobas per U.S. dollar) Buying 5.00 5.0375 Selling Specified government payments. Specified commercial obliga- tions contracted in 1950. All other exports. Exports of farm prod- ucts and products de- rived therefrom and of certain forest products. Foreign notes and coins. 6.586 ( 2 0% at C $5 r a te and 80% at C$6.9825) 6.60 ( 2 0% at C $5 r a te and 80% at C$7 rate) 7.00 7.10 (Fluctu- ating Free Market Rate) Note: The C$6.586 rate is not the effective rate for coffee exports, which are subject to an export tax of US$3 per quintal, payable in foreign ex- change. An additional 25% ad valorem tax is applied on the excess when the price rises above US$50 per quintal. 7.0525 7.20 (Fluctu- ating Free Market Rate) 8.0525 ( C $ 7 . 0 5 25 r a te p l us C $1 s u r- charge) 10.0525 ( C $ 7 . 0 5 25 r a te p l us C $3 s u r- charge) Essential i m p o r t s. Students' expenses. Insurance premiums. Registered capital. Foreign notes and coins. Semi - essential im- ports. Medical ex- penses. Non - essential im- ports. Other invisi- bles. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA 129 Changes during 1951 January 1 Importers were required to pay the exchange surcharges on semi-essential and non-essential imports before the relative im- port license would be issued. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY Date of Introduction May 18, 1940. Revised November 10, 1944, and July 19, 1946. A new law embodying previous regulations was issued July 14, 1950, but has not yet been implemented. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through licenses required for some imports from certain countries and for most imports from all other countries, and through licenses required for nontrade payments to certain countries; exchange is granted for imports and nontrade payments authorized by these licenses. Foreign exchange must be surrendered. Exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: Norwegian Kroner 7.14286 = US$1. Official rates: buying NKr 7.135, selling NKr 7.150 per US$1. Exchange Payments Imports. Some imports from EPU countries and their asso- ciated territories1 and f rom Finland, Spain, and Israel, and most imports from all other countries require individual import licenses. Appropriate exchange is automatically granted for authorized imports. Invisibles. Payments abroad require licenses which are free- ly granted for most transactions with EPU countries. For pay- ments to other countries, appropriate exchange is granted for expenses incidental to trade transactions and for most interest and dividend payments due to nonresidents. Exchange for cer- tain other purposes is freely granted up to certain limits in specified currencies. Persons traveling abroad may take with them a maximum of NKr 50 in Norwegian banknotes. In addi- tion, residents traveling to EPU countries are freely granted certain amounts in the appropriate currencies. Capital. Transfers of capital require approval. Transfers of certain capital assets on a compensatory basis to specified countries with which special agreements are in effect are freely authorized. 1 These countries are listed as follows: Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Sweden, Swit- zerland, Trieste, Turkey, Western Germany, their overseas territories, and the Sterling Area. 130 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY 131 Exchange Receipts Exports. Exports require licenses. Foreign exchange from exports must be surrendered. Invisibles. Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered. Shipping and insurance companies and some industrial concerns can keep accounts in foreign exchange abroad for oper- ating purposes. Persons may bring in a maximum of NKr 50 in Norwegian banknotes. Capital. The investment of foreign capital requires approval which is usually granted. Exchange receipts from capital in- vested abroad by Norwegian residents must be surrendered. Changes during 1951 February 1 New regulations governing goods not subject to restriction as to amount when imported from EPU countries and associated territories became effective. February 3 Additional commodities were added to the list of goods not subject to restriction when imported from EPU countries. March 1 Authorized banks were permitted to grant exchange up to certain limits for business travel. April 1 Spain and Spanish possessions were added to the list of coun- tries from which the import of certain goods was not subject to restriction. April 6 Israel was added to the list of countries from which the im- port of certain goods was not subject to restriction. May 1 Further additions were made to the list of goods not subject to restriction when imported from EPU countries, their as- sociated territories, Israel, Spain, and Spanish possessions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN Date of Introduction September 3, 1939. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through licenses for most imports from certain countries and for some imports from all other coun- tries, and through licenses required for nontrade payments. Ex- change is granted for imports and for nontrade payments au- thorized by these licenses. Exchange receipts must in general be surrendered. Some exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: Pakistan Rupees 3.30852 = US$1. Official rates: buying PRs 3.30, selling PRs 3.32 per US$1. Exchange Control Territory There are only a few exchange control requirements applicable to transactions with Afghanistan. The accounts with authorized dealers of persons resident in Afghanistan are treated as "resi- dent". Exchange Payments Payments to residents of India must be effected in Indian or Pakistan rupees. Payments to Afghanistan must be made in Pakistan rupees to the account of a resident of Afghanistan. Payments to residents of other countries must be effected either in the foreign exchange appropriate to the country of the recip- ient or by crediting the appropriate sterling or Pakistan rupee account of a nonresident. Imports. Many imports from "soft currency" countries * are free of license. Some essential items can also be imported from other countries free of license. All other imports require import licenses. Exchange is automatically granted for authorized im- ports. Invisibles. Payments abroad require licenses. Foreign ex- change is freely granted for expenses incidental to trade trans- actions, and for transfers abroad of dividends and other earri- 1 These countries are listed as follows: all countries other than Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Sal- vador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Japan, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippine Republic, United States and possessions, and Venezuela. 132 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 133 ings due to nonresidents. Foreign exchange for other payments is granted up to specified limits. Residents traveling to certain countries are freely granted certain amounts in the appropriate currencies. Not more than £10 in Bank of England notes or the equivalent of PRs 50 in any foreign currency, and PRs 50 in Pakistan banknotes may be taken out of Pakistan. Capital. Transfers of capital require approval. Exchange Receipts Exports. Export of certain essential items, particularly to "soft currency" countries, requires licenses. The exchange pro- ceeds of all exports to countries outside Pakistan (other than India) must be received (1) in appropriate foreign exchange which must be surrendered, (2) in sterling from an account appropriate to the country of import, or (3) in Pakistan rupees from the account of a bank in the country of import. Payment for exports to India must be received either in Indian rupees or in Pakistan rupees from the account of a bank resident in India. Invisibles. Exchange receipts from invisibles in Philippine pesos and U.S. dollars must be surrendered. Other exchange may in certain circumstances be retained, but its disposal re- quires a license. The receipt of remittances from Sterling Area countries exceeding PRs 14,000 or the equivalent requires prior approval. Bank of England notes up to £ 10, and Pakistan notes up to PRs 50, and other foreign currencies to an unlimited ex- tent, may be brought into Pakistan. Capital. Investments by persons residing outside Pakistan must be made in foreign exchange appropriate to their country or in sterling or rupees from an appropriate account. Remit- tances from Sterling Area territories exceeding PRs 14,000 or the equivalent require prior approval. Exchange receipts from capital in Philippine pesos and U.S. dollars must be surrendered. Other exchange may in certain circumstances be retained, but its disposal requires a license. Changes during 1951 January 4 A new Open General License permitting certain imports free of individual license during the period January-June 1951 be- came effective. Certain items previously importable under open general license were made subject to individual license. January 12 Importers of iron, steel, and machinery of all types were no longer required to make deposits when booking forward ex- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 134 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS change with banks to cover imports of these goods in Pakistan. January 18 Importers of goods subject to individual license were no longer required to make deposits when booking forward exchange with banks. The minimum deposit in the case of imports under open general license was reduced from 50 per cent to 25 per cent. February 26 A list of goods which could be imported from India under open general license was published. February 27 Remittances to and from India became subject to exchange control. Proceeds of exports to India had to be received within one month. March A graduated tax not exceeding 1 per cent on import and ex- port licenses of a value exceeding PRs 4,999, initially introduced in October 1950, was further extended. March 19 The initial par value for the Pakistan rupee was established with the International Monetary Fund at PRs 3.30852 per U.S. dollar. The requirement of a minimum deposit of 25 per cent on for- ward exchange bookings by importers of goods on open general license was abolished. April 2 The exchange proceeds of exports to countries other than India, Nepal, and Tibet had to be surrendered within four in- stead of six months after the date of exportation. April 20 Importers were required to furnish certain information for purposes of registration. June 6 The exchange proceeds of exports to India had to be surren- dered in two months instead of one month after the date of dis- patch of the goods. June 27 The import by travelers of Bank of England notes up to £10 was permitted. July 1 A new Open General License permitting certain imports free of individual license during the period July-December 1951 be- came effective. It enlarged the scope of a previous Open General License. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY Date of Introduction June 28, 1932. Last major revision March 5, 1951. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through import prohibitions, through licenses required for nonprohibited imports and certain nontrade payments, and through multiple currency practices resulting from a penalty fixed rate and a fluctuating free market rate. Foreign exchange derived from exports and certain in- visibles must be surrendered. A multiple currency practice re- sults on the buying side from the application of a fixed exchange rate (in addition to the parity rate) and a fluctuating free market rate. A few exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: Guaranies 6 = US$1. Basic rates: buying and selling at the par value. Another official rate and a fluctuating free market yield other effective rates (see Table of Exchange Rates below). Exchange Payments Imports. Imports may enter Paraguay only if an exchange contract having the effect of an import and exchange license has been concluded with the Bank of Paraguay. These contracts are concluded at fixed rates for specified essential goods accord- ing to two categories: Category I—Covers such items as cattle, wheat, drugs, salt and agricultural machinery to which the G 6.00 rate is applied. Category II—Covers such items as foods tuffs, hardware, electrical equipment, trucks, paper, and textiles to which the G 9.00 rate is applied. Exchange contracts are not, at present, concluded for non- essential and luxury goods, so that, in effect, their import is prohibited. Invisibles. Payments abroad at either of the official rates require licenses. Government payments are effected at the G 6.00 rate. River freight for imports, registered insurance and reinsurance payments, and approved students' expenses are 135 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 136 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS effected at the G 9.00 rate. All other invisibles are freely effected at the fluctuating free market rate. Capital. Transfers of registered capital require approval and are effected at the G 9.00 rate. Nonregistered capital can be freely transferred at the fluctuating free market rate. Exchange Receipts Exports. A few goods in short supply require export licenses. The export of strategic materials to certain countries is pro- hibited. Export proceeds to the extent of the officially-appraised value of the goods must be surrendered at one of two fixed official rates. The balance (if any) of such proceeds may be sold in the free market. Proceeds of basic exports, such as wood, quebracho extract, hides, cotton, and meat products, must be surrendered to the extent of the officially-appraised value of the goods at the G 6.00 rate. Proceeds of other exports must be surrendered to the extent of the officially-appraised value of the goods at the G 9.00 rate. Export taxes of 11, 16.67, or 33 per cent are deducted from the exchange proceeds of certain exports. Invisibles. Exchange receipts from certain invisibles must be surrendered at the G 9.00 rate. Certain government receipts are converted at the G 6.00 rate. All other invisibles may be sold in the free market. Capital. Exchange receipts from registered capital must be surrendered at the G 9.00 rate. Nonregisfered capital may be sold at the free market rate. Table of Exchange Rates See next page. Changes during 1951 March 5 The par value of the guarani was raised from G 3.09 to G 6.00 per U.S. dollar. Official rates of G 6 and G 9 per U.S. dollar at which most trade transactions would take place were estab- lished. Most invisible transactions were to be made in the free market which was legalized. Taxes on sales of exchange were removed. Export taxes were raised up to 33 per cent. The im- port of non-essential goods was suspended. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY 137 March 7 Advance deposit requirements of up to 25 per cent applied to imports under the former exchange system were abolished for goods in Category I and amended to 15 per cent for goods in Category II. April 2 Payments for expenses incidental to exports were to be effected through the free market. April 3 The requirement that export taxes must be paid upon export of the goods was amended to require only 25 per cent to be paid on export and the balance when the export proceeds were received. April 23 The advance deposit requirement of 15 per cent applicable to Category II imports was abolished. August 16 The export of strategic materials to Communist China, North Korea, and certain other countries was prohibited. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1951) (guaranies per U.S. dollar) Selling G o v e r n m e nt n o n- t r a de p a y m e n t s. Category I imports. Category II imports. Specified invisibles. Registered capital. Other i n v i s i b l e s. Nonregistered capi- tal. 6.00 9.00 31.50 (Fluctu- ating Free Market Rate) 6.00 9.00 Buying Government r e c e i p t s. Basic exports (wood, q u e b r a c ho e x t r a c t, h i d e s, c o t t o n, a nd mea t). Other exports. Certain i n v i s i b l e s. Registered capital. Other i n v i s i b l es and nonregistered capital. 31.50 (Fluctu- ating Free Market Rate) Note: The above rates for exports are not the effective rates. The effective rates for export proceeds depend on the d ifferent rates of export taxes (of 11%, 16.67%, or 33% deducted from the exchange proceeds of most ex- ports). Moreover, export proceeds in excess of their officially-appraised value are negotiable in the free mar- ket. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Date of Introduction PERU January 23, 1945. Last major revision November 11, 1949. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through a multiple currency prac- tice which results from the application of an exchange certificate market for some trade transactions and a free market for other trade and most nontrade transactions. Foreign exchange from most exports must be converted either totally or partially into exchange certificates. All exports require licenses. Exchange Rates The initial par value of the Peruvian Sol was established on December 18, 1946. In November 1949, Peru introduced a new exchange system, but no agreement on a new par value has been reached. The exchange certificate and free markets yield fluctu- ating rates (see Table of Exchange Rates below). Exchange Payments Imports. Imports are freely permitted. Payments for most imports are effected through the exchange certificate market in which the rate is currently S/. 15.28 per U.S. dollar. Oc- casional imports may be effected through the free market in which the rate is currently S/. 15.36 per U.S. dollar. Exchange certificates are denominated in Argentine pesos, French francs, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. Importers opening documen- tary import letters of credit through commercial banks must make advance deposit as follows: 100 per cent of the value of non-essential imports and 50 per cent of raw material imports. Invisibles. Payments may be freely effected through the free market. Payments for expenses incidental to trade transactions and certain other invisibles may be effected subject to approval at the exchange certificate market rate. Capital. Transfers of capital may be effected through the free market. Exchange Receipts Exports. Exports of strategic materials to certain countries are prohibited. All exports require licenses which are auto- matically granted if the exporter agrees to convert the exchange 138 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU 139 proceeds into exchange certificates to the extent required, namely, 100 per cent if in French francs or U.S. dollars, and 10 per cent if in Argentine pesos or pounds sterling. Export proceeds may be received in Chilean pesos, which can be sold in the free market. Invisibles. Exchange receipts from invisibles may be sold in the free market. Capital. Exchange receipts from capital may be sold in the free market. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1951) (soles per U.S. dollar) 15.28 ( F l u c t u- a t i ng E x- change Cer- t i f i c a te Rate) 15.36 ( F l u c t u- ating Free M a r k et Rate) Buying E x p o r ts ( 1 0 0% in French francs and U.S. dollars; 10% in Argen- tine pesos and pounds sterling). All other export pro- ceeds. Invisibles and capital. Selling Most imports. Cer- tain invisibles. Occasional imports. Other invisibles and capital. 15.28 ( F l u c t u- a t i ng E x- change Cer- t i f i c a te Rate) 15.36 ( F l u c t u- ating Free M a r k et Rate) Changes during 1951 January 30 The prohibited list of imports was abolished. March 21 The percentage of export proceeds in French francs and U.S. dollars required to be converted into certificates was reduced from 100 per cent to 75 per cent. April 13 The percentage of export proceeds in Argentine pesos and pounds sterling required to be converted into certificates was reduced to 10 per cent. April 23 The percentage of export proceeds in French francs and U.S. dollars required to be converted into certificates was reduced from 75 per cent to 50 per cent for proceeds of dollar exports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 140 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS May 10 The percentage of export proceeds in French francs and U.S. dollars required to be converted into certificates was raised to 75 per cent. May 16 The percentage of export proceeds in French francs and U.S. dollars required to be converted into certificates was raised to 100 per cent. May The validity period of the exchange certificates was reduced from 60 days to 15 days with the exception of those in pounds sterling, Argentine pesos, and other currencies not convertible into gold, the validity of which remained unchanged at 60 days. June 5 The exportation of strategic materials to Communist China and North Korea was prohibited. September 13 Advance deposit requirements for the opening of documentary import letters of credit were established as follows: 100 per cent of the value of non-essential imports and 50 per cent of the value of raw materials. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINE REPUBLIC Date of Introduction December 9, 1949. Last major revision March 28, 1951. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through licenses granted up to the limits of individual import quotas, through licenses required for nontrade payments, and through a multiple currency practice resulting frorti an exchange tax on most payments. Foreign exchange must be surrendered. All exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: Philippine Pesos 2 - US$1. Official rates: buying P 2.00375, selling P 2.015 per US$1. These rates represent the official minimum buying and maximum selling rates for com- mercial banks applied to telegraphic transfers of US$500 and over. A tax of 17 per cent imposed on most remittances yields an effective selling rate of P 2.35755 per US$1 (see Table of Exchange Rates below). Exchange Payments Imports. All imports require import licenses which are is- sued up to the limits of individual quotas computed on the basis of previous imports, essentiality of goods, and other criteria. The licensing of certain imports is on a non-quota basis. Ex- change is automatically granted for authorized imports. An exchange tax of 17 per cent is imposed on payments for imports with the exception of machinery and materials for new and necessary industries. This tax is refunded in the case of imports of basic foodstuffs, fertilizers, poultry feed, newsprint, text- books and reference books, book paper, medical, dental and hos- pital supplies and materials used by the importer himself in the manufacture of export products. Invisibles. Payments abroad require licenses. Persons trav- eling abroad may take with them a maximum of P 100 in Philippine currency. The exchange tax of 17 per cent is imposed on payments in respect of invisibles with the exception of cer- tain insurance payments, expenses for the drydocking and re- pair abroad of Philippine vessels, and the living expenses of students abroad. 141 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 142 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Capital. Transfers of capital require approval. Transfers of profits and dividends are allowed out of current earnings in an amount equivalent to 10 per cent of current net profits or capital stock outstanding as of December 31, 1949, whichever is higher; plus 30 per cent of the foreign participation in the depreciated fixed assets or in the capital stock outstanding as of December 31, 1949, whichever is higher. Exchange Receipts Exports. Certain exports are prohibited. Some goods may be exported without a permit from the Export Control Com- mittee, but all exports are subject to licensing by the Central Bank or its authorized agents. The proceeds of all exports must be obtained in U.S. dollars and surrendered. Invisibles. Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered. Persons may bring in a maximum of P 100 in Philip- pine currency. Capital. Authorization is required for transactions involving foreign assets of resident nationals as well as for incurring new liabilities to nonresidents. Exchange receipts from capital must be surrendered. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1951) (Philippine pesos per U.S. dollar) 2.00375 Buying All incoming exchange. 2.015 2.35755 (P 2.015 rate plus 17% ex- change tax) Selling G o v e r n m e nt p a y- ments. Imports of machinery, materials for new and neces- s a ry i n d u s t r i e s, basic foodstuffs, fer- tilizers, etc. Certain specified invisibles. Other imports. Other invisibles and capi- tal. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINE REPUBLIC 143 Changes during 1951 March 28 A 17 per cent tax was levied on sales of foreign exchange. Sales of exchange for certain commodities and invisibles are either exempted from the tax or the tax is refunded. Imported strategic materials were prohibited from re-exporta- tion. Locally produced strategic materials were prohibited from exportation to China, North Korea, Macao, and Hong Kong. April 1 Licensing of practically all essential imports was transferred to the Price Stabilization Corporation. Rice, flour, milk, canned fish, canned meats, and coffee beans could be imported without quota allocation. May 11 Quota restrictions were lifted from 19 groups of essential import goods. June 7 The amount granted for maintenance of persons undergoing medical treatment abroad was set at US$300 per month in North, Central, and South America and US$150 per month in Europe. June 19 An Export Control Committee was created and export items were classified into three categories: (1) prohibited exports, (2) exports allowed without permit, and (3) exports which re- quire a permit. July 1 A revised import control law went into effect. Imports were divided into three categories: (1) decontrolled goods, (2) con- trolled essential goods, (3) controlled non-essential goods. Licensing of all imports was centralized in the Import Control Commission. August 28 The import of certain items which are produced domestically in sufficient quantities or which are not essential to the health and well-being of the people was prohibited. The number of de- controlled items was reduced to 8 categories. October 31 Control over exports and re-exports was extended and tight- ened. December 6 Remittances for books and periodicals in amounts not ex- ceeding US$100 were allowed without any specific import license. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN 1 Date of Introduction February 25, 1940. Last major revision June 17, 1949. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through import prohibitions, li- censes being required for some imports from certain countries and most imports from all other countries, and through licenses required for nontrade payments; exchange is granted for im- ports and nontrade payments authorized by these licenses. For- eign exchange from certain countries or in certain currencies must be surrendered. Other exchange receipts must be trans- ferred to Sweden. Certain exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: Swedish Kronor 5.17321 = US$1. Official rates: buying SKr 5.17, selling SKr 5.18 per US$1. Exchange Payments Imports. Some imports mainly from EPU countries and their associated territories2 and most imports from all other countries require import licenses. All other imports are free of license. Appropriate exchange is granted for authorized im- ports. Payments for imports in advance of shipment are allowed in some cases. Invisibles. Payments abroad require licenses, which are free- ly granted for most payments. Residents traveling abroad for tourist purposes are freely granted SKr 500 per year in the ap- propriate currencies. For travel to EPU countries, Egypt, Israel, Spain and Yugoslavia, an additional SKr 250 per year is granted. For travel to Denmark, Finland, Norway, and Sterling Area countries, reasonable amounts are authorized. Persons traveling abroad may take with them a maximum of SKr 100 in Swedish banknotes in denominations not exceeding SKr 50. Capital. Transfers of capital require approval. 1 Membership in the International Monetary Fund became effective Au- gust 31, 1951. 2 These countries are listed as follows: Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Fin- land, France, Greece, Indonesia, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Switzerland, Trieste, Turkey, Western Germany, their overseas territories, and the Sterling Area. 144 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN 145 Exchange Receipts Exports. Certain exports require licenses. The proceeds of exports to certain countries3 or in certain currencies4 must be surrendered. Other exchange receipts must be transferred to Sweden. Invisibles. Exchange receipts from invisibles from certain countries or in certain currencies must be surrendered. Other exchange receipts must be transferred to Sweden. Persons may bring in a maximum of SKr 100 in Swedish banknotes in de- nominations not exceeding SKr 50. Capital. The investment of foreign capital requires ap- proval. Exchange receipts from capital owned by residents must be transferred to Sweden and in some cases surrendered. Changes during 1951 January 1 The export of certain essential goods was made subject to export license. April 1 The list of goods which could be imported free of import license from EPU countries was revised. June 16 Exports of many essential products were made subject to license. November 5 The International Monetary Fund announced the establish- ment of the initial par value for the Swedish krona at SKr 5.17321 per U.S. dollar. 3 All countries in North, Central, and South America, Philippine Repub- lic, Portuguese Monetary Area, Switzerland and Tangier. 4 Argentine pesos, Portuguese escudos, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Date of Introduction SYRIA December 3, 1939. Last major revision September 26, 1949. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through a multiple currency prac- tice resulting from the use of free markets with rates differing from parity by more than 1 per cent, and through licenses re- quired for imports and for payments effected with "exportation exchange". A multiple currency practice results on the buying side from the application of different effective rates. A few exports are prohibited. Exchange Rates Par value: Syrian Pounds 2.19148 = US$1. Official rates: buy- ing LS 2.19, selling LS 2.21 per US$1. The "exportation ex- change" and the use of a free market yield various effective rates (see Table of Exchange Rates below). Exchange Payments Imports. All imports require licenses. Imports are effected through the "exportation exchange" or the free market rate, the latter being currently at LS 3.83 per U.S. dollar, the rate for "exportation exchange" being slightly lower. Invisibles. Payments abroad may be freely effected if the remitter provides his own exchange or purchases it in the free market. However, to effect such payments with "exportation exchange", an exchange license is required, which may be given in a few specific cases. Persons traveling abroad may take with them a maximum of LS 50 in Syrian banknotes. Capital. Transfers of capital abroad may be freely effected, but the remitter must provide his own exchange or purchase it in the free market. Exchange Receipts Exports. A few exports essential to the domestic economy are prohibited. Most other exports are free of license. Exchange proceeds from the principal exports can be recorded with an 146 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIA 147 approved bank in Syria in a specified currency1 as "exportation exchange" which is freely disposable within Syria; its transfer abroad is free for payments for licensed imports, but if such transfer is to be effected for other transactions, a license, which is given in a few specific cases, is required. Invisibles. Exchange receipts from invisibles are freely dis- posable. Companies operating under special contract must sell at the LS 2.19 rate 100 per cent of the specified currencies to be sold. Capital. Exchange receipts from capital are freely disposable. 1 The specified currencies are Belgian francs, Egyptian pounds, French francs, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 148 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1951) (Syrian pounds per U.S. dollar) Buying Selling Sales of specified cur- rencies by companies operating under con- tract. Exports requiring the remittance of "expor- tation exchange." All other exports. In- visibles and capital. 2.19 3.80 ( F l u c t u- ating: "Ex- p o r t a t i on Exchange" Rate) 3.83 ( F l u c t u- ating Free M a r k et Rate) 2.21 G o v e r n m e nt p a y- ments. Imports with license and authorized pay- ments. All other payments. 3.80 ( F l u c t u- ating "Ex- p o r t a t i on Exchange" Rate) 3.83 ( F l u c t u- ating Free M a r k et Rate) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIA 149 Changes during 1951 April 15 Companies operating under special contract had to sell 100 per cent, instead of 80 per cent as formerly, at the official rate. April 28 Additional items were added to the list of prohibited exports. May 20 A few items were added to the list of prohibited imports. June 2 A general embargo on all gold exports temporarily suspended in October 1950 was reimposed. June 5 The export of certain commodities was prohibited and cer- tain other commodities were made subject to license. July 26 Some commodities were added to the list of exports subject to license. All such exports had to be made through the port of Latakia. August 27 Certain essential goods could be imported only through the port of Latakia. September 10 The requirement that foreign tourists and receivers of emi- grants' remittances surrender 10 per cent of their exchange at the official rate was lifted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND Date of Introduction January 27, 1942. Revised in 1948. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through multiple currency prac- tices resulting from the use of a free market with rates differing from the official rate and a penalty selling rate, and through licenses required for a few goods. The foreign exchange pro- ceeds of the principal exports must be surrendered in varying proportions. Multiple currency practices result on the buying side from the application of different effective rates. A few ex- ports require licenses. Exchange Rates No par value for the Baht. Official rates: buying baht 12.45, selling baht 12.55 per US$1. The surrender of various propor- tions of exchange and the use of the free market yield various effective rates; special fixed rates apply to most transactions with Japan (see Table of Exchange Rates below). Exchange Payments Imports. Import licenses are required for only a few goods. Most government imports and gasoline, kerosene, and fuel oil imports are effected at the baht 12.55 rate. Most imports from Japan require import licenses and are effected at the baht 20.70 rate. Pounds sterling in settlement of payments for authorized imports are provided by the Bank of Thailand through the com- mercial banks at a rate not more than 2 per cent below the aver- age free market selling rate of the previous week. Payments for other imports are made through the free market, which is cur- rently at a rate of baht 22.08 per U.S. dollar. Invisibles. Remittances for students are effected at the baht 12.55 rate. Foreign exchange for other purposes is obtained in the free market. Capital. Foreign exchange for transfers of capital is ob- tained in the free market. 150 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND 151 Exchange Receipts Exports. Export licenses are required for the principal ex- port commodities and for all exports to Japan. Exporters of rice must surrender exchange 100 per cent, of tin 40 per cent, and of rubber 20 per cent of the officially-appraised value of the goods exported, at the baht 12.45 rate; the remainder may be sold in the free market. The proceeds of all other exports may be sold in the free market, except for those to Japan, which are effected at a special baht 20.30 rate. Invisibles. Exchange receipts from invisibles may be sold in the free market. Capital. Exchange receipts f rom capital may be sold in the free market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 152 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31,1951) (baht per U.S. dollar) 12.45 Buying Rice exports. 12.55 Selling Most g o v e r n m e nt payments. Imports of gasoline, kero- sene, and fuel oils. Student remittances. 18.114 (40% at the baht 12.45 r a te a nd 60% at the Free Mark- ket Rate) 20.002 (20% at the baht 12.45 r a te a nd 80% at the Free Mar- ket Rate) 20.30 Tin exports. Rubber exports. Exports to Japan, ex- cept rice, tin, and rub- ber. 20.70 Invisi- Imports from Japan, except government imports and a few luxury items. Other imports. Other invisibles and capi- tal. Other exports. bles and capital. 21.89 22.08 ( F l u c t u- ( F l u c t u- ating Free ating Free M a r k et M a r k et Rate) Rate) Note: The above rate structure, being expressed in terms of U.S. dollars, does not take account of rates for sterling which is at a discount in the free market on the basis of the dollar-sterling parity. There is also an additional selling rate for sterling, since pounds sterling are sold by the Bank of Thailand to commercial banks for payment for authorized imports at a preferential rate not more than 2% below the average free market selling rate during the previous week. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND 153 Changes during 1951 April 16 The Bank of Thailand began to sell sterling to commercial banks in payment of authorized imports at a preferential rate not more than 2 per cent below the average free market selling rate during the previous week, instead of at a fixed rate of baht 57 per £1, as previously. July 23 The export of all kinds of timber except teak was made sub- ject to license. July 31 The export of antimony, castor oil, castor oil seeds, iron ores, kapok, lead metal, lead ores, para rubber, tin ores, tungsten, wolfram, and zinc was made subject to license. November The prohibition on the "private" export of rice was removed. Private exports of rice were permitted providing the exporter supplied the Government Rice Bureau with three and one-half times the amount of rice to be exported and surrendered ex- change proceeds equal to the appraised value of the quantity exported at the official rate. December 1 The middle rate for settlements with Japan was changed from baht 20 to baht 20.50 per US$1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Date of Introduction TURKEY February 20, 1930. Last major revision September 1, 1950. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through the allocation of exchange to importers and through licenses required for payments not in respect of imports. Foreign exchange must be surrendered, but the export proceeds of certain goods may be used to effect the import of certain other goods. Exchange Rates Par value: Turkish Liras 2.80 = US$1. Official rates: buying LT 2.80, selling LT 2.8252 per US$1. Exchange Payments Imports. Some imports from EPU countries and their asso- ciated territories* and most imports from all other countries require the allocation of exchange. The import of certain goods" may be made with the exchange proceeds of certain exports. Invisibles. Payments abroad require licenses. Persons trav- eling abroad may take with them a maximum of LT 100 in Turkish banknotes. Profits, interest, and dividends on approved capital investments may be transferred abroad up to a maximum of 10 per cent annually. Capital. Transfers of capital require approval. Approved capital investments of nonresidents may be repatriated in the original currency after a certain period of time. The time may not be less than 3 years from date of entry for cash capital or less than 5 years for capital equipment. Nonresident assets in Turkey can be used for exports of specified commodities and for certain expenses in Turkey. Exchange Receipts Exports. With the exception of a few goods, exports are free of license. The proceeds of exports to countries with which Tur- key has trade and payments agreements must be received 1 These countries are listed as follows: Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland, Trieste, United Kingdom, Western Ger- many, and their overseas territories. 154 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY 155 through the corresponding agreement account. The proceeds of exports to other countries must be received in a convertible cur- rency or in pounds sterling. Exchange proceeds must be sur- rendered, but the exchange proceeds of certain exports may be used to pay for certain imports. Invisibles. Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered. Persons may bring in a maximum of LT 100 in Turk- ish banknotes. Capital. The investment of foreign capital can be made freely. Capital invested in projects considered useful for the eco- nomic development of Turkey may obtain an official guarantee that the capital may be repatriated and profits, interest, and dividends may be remitted up to certain limits. Changes during 1951 February 10 A regulation was passed making it obligatory for export docu- ments to be passed through an authorized bank. February 20 The lists showing which goods could be exported, imported, with or without a license, were extended. March 28 The import of certain listed goods with private holdings of exchange was allowed until September 30, 1951. August 9 A law, specifying the conditions attaching to foreign invest- ment in Turkey by which the repatriation, as well as the remit- tance of profits, interest, and dividends up to 10 per cent an- nually, could be guaranteed, became effective. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA Date of Introduction September 9, 1939. Last major revision January 1, 1950. Con- solidation of amendments to the Exchange Control Regulations was effected and gazetted on November 2, 1951. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through licenses required for most imports, and through licenses required for nontrade payments to countries outside the Sterling Area; exchange is granted for imports and nontrade payments authorized by these licenses. Foreign exchange, other than Sterling Area currencies, must be surrendered. Certain exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: South African Pound 1 = US$2.80. Official rates: buying US$2.78625, selling US$2.7725 per £SA 1. Exchange Control Territory There are no exchange or trade restrictions between the Union of South Africa, South West Africa, Basutoland, Swaziland, and the Bechuanaland Protectorate. These territories may be re- garded as forming with the Union of South Africa a single ex- change control territory. Exchange Payments Payments to other parts of the Sterling Area must be effected in a Sterling Area currency. Payments to outside the Sterling Area must be effected either in the foreign exchange appropriate to the country of the recipient or by crediting the appropriate sterling account of a nonresident. Imports. Most imports require import licenses, which are liberally granted for certain essential items. Import licenses are of two types: (1) general—valid for imports from all coun- tries, and (2) restricted—valid for imports only from "soft currency" countries.1 For raw materials, consumable stores and maintenance spares, licenses are granted to importers on 1 These countries are listed as follows: all countries other than Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Sal- vador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Philip- pine Republic, United States and possessions, and Venezuela. 156 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNION OP SOUTH AFRICA 157 the basis of quotas fixed in accordance with previous consump- tion and estimated requirements. For consumer goods, licenses are granted to importers up to the limit of quotas based on previous imports; 25 per cent of such quotas are issued in the form of General Licenses and 75 per cent in the form of Res- tricted Licenses. In respect of consumer goods, Restricted Li- censes can be exchanged for General Licenses for a smaller amount, and both General and Restricted Licenses can be ex- changed for licenses which permit a smaller amount of other- wise prohibited imports either from any country or only from "soft currency" countries, according to the type of license ex- changed. Certain items may be imported from "soft currency" countries free of license. Exchange is automatically granted for authorized imports. Invisibles. Payments to outside the Sterling Area require li- censes which are freely granted for most invisibles. Non- sterling exchange for film royalties and traveling purposes is granted in limited amounts. Capital. Transfers of capital to outside the Sterling Area re- quire approval. Foreign capital may be repatriated in the form in which it was originally provided. Capital transfers are au- thorized in limited amounts in cases of emigration to countries outside the Sterling Area. Exchange Receipts Exports. Exports of certain commodities require licenses. The exchange proceeds of all exports to outside the Sterling Area must be received (1) in appropriate foreign exchange or (2) in sterling from an account appropriate to the country of destination. All non-sterling exchange must be surrendered. Special conditions apply to the manner of payment for the ex- port of diamonds. Invisibles. Exchange receipts from invisibles, other than Sterling Area currencies, must be surrendered. Such receipts from outside the Sterling Area must be received (1) in ap- propriate foreign exchange or (2) in sterling from an account appropriate to the country of the remitter. Capital. Most foreign exchange receipts, other than Sterling Area currencies, must be surrendered. Capital from outside the Sterling Area must be received (1) in appropriate foreign ex- change or (2) in sterling from an account appropriate to the country of the remitter. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 158 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Changes during 1951 January 1 Import licenses for 1951 in respect of consumer goods were to be issued for 25 per cent of an importer's allocation for pur- chases in either "hard" or "soft currency" countries and to the extent of 75 per cent for purchases in "soft currency" coun- tries. Importers could convert their Restricted Licenses to Gen- eral Licenses—50 per cent on the basis of £SA 1 "hard cur- rency" for every £SA 2 "soft currency" and the remaining 50 per cent at the rate of £SA 1 "hard currency" for every £SA 5 "soft currency". Importers could also use both Restricted and General Licenses to obtain licenses to import goods on the "pro- hibited list" on the basis of £SA 5 of the available permits for every £SA 1 of "prohibited" goods to be imported. February 9 Special import licenses would be freely granted for certain textile piece goods imported from "hard" or "soft currency" countries provided new ceiling prices were not exceeded. March 22 The export of a wide range of commodities was made subject to license. September 14 A revised and expanded list of commodities subject to export control was issued. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM Date of Introduction September 3, 1939. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through licenses required for almost all imports from certain countries and for some imports from other countries, and through licenses required for nontrade pay- ments to outside the Sterling Area; exchange is granted for im- ports and nontrade payments authorized by these licenses. For- eign exchange in certain currencies must be surrendered. Certain exports require licenses.1 Exchange Rates Par value: United Kingdom Pound 1 = US$2.80. Market rates are maintained for most currencies dealt with in the United Kingdom between official limits corresponding to buying US$2.82, selling US$2.78 per £1. Exchange Payments Payments to outside the Sterling Area must be effected either (1) by crediting the appropriate sterling account of a nonresi- dent or (2) in some cases, in appropriate foreign exchange. Pay- ments for invisibles on behalf of persons in other territories of the Sterling Area require approval of their local exchange con- trol authorities. Imports. Apart from transactions on government account, almost all imports from certain countries2 and some imports from all other countries require import licenses. All other im- ports are freely permitted. Exchange is automatically granted for authorized imports. 1 Export licensing in the United Kingdom, as in some other countries, is not related to exchange control. 2 These countries are listed as follows: Albania, Argentina, Bolivia, Bul- garia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Dominican Re- public, Ecuador, El Salvador, French Somaliland, Germany (Russian Zone), Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iran, Japan, Korea, Liberia, Mex- ico, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippines, Poland, Rumania, Tangier, United States, U.S.S.R., Venezuela, and Yugoslavia. 159 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 160 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Invisibles. Payments to outside the Sterling Area require li- censes. Foreign exchange is freely granted for expenses in- cidental to trade transactions. Remittances for such purposes as charity, maintenance, and education are authorized in moderate amounts. Residents traveling to specified countries are freely granted certain amounts in the appropriate currencies. Not more than £10 3 in British banknotes may be taken out of the United Kingdom except by persons traveling direct to the Irish Repub- lic. The transfer abroad of dividends, reasonable profits, and other current earnings due to nonresidents is freely authorized, but the remittance of film royalties due to United States com- panies is limited by special agreement. Certain freedom in ex- change operations is granted to specified commodity markets, e.g., rubber, cocoa, coffee, tin and grain, and to the insurance market. Capital. Transfers of capital to outside the Sterling Area require approval. Foreign exchange is freely granted for repay- ments abroad in respect of matured capital obligations of non- residents. In other cases, the liquidation of proceeds of foreign capital can be used only for reinvestment in sterling securities not maturing earlier than ten years from the date of purchase. Capital transfers are authorized in limited amounts in cases of emigration to countries outside the Sterling Area. Special facil- ities permit residents of Scandinavia4 to have all capital pro- ceeds due to them transferred to their respective countries. Exchange Receipts Exports. Certain exports require export licenses, as do all exports to China and Hong Kong. The proceeds of all exports to outside the Sterling Area must be received (1) from a sterling account appropriate to the country of destination or (2) in some cases, in appropriate foreign exchange. Exchange receipts in certain currencies must be surrendered. Invisibles. Exchange receipts from invisibles in certain cur- rencies must be surrendered. Permission is given for foreign exchange to be retained on controlled accounts where it is re- quired for operating purposes. Not more than £10 in British 3 This limit was reduced to £5 per person as from January 29, 1952. 4 In the United Kingdom exchange control regulations, Scandinavia com- prises Denmark (including the Faroe Islands and Greenland), Norway and Sweden. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM 161 banknotes may be brought into the United Kingdom except by persons traveling direct from the Irish Republic. Capital. Exchange receipts from capital in certain currencies must be surrendered. Most foreign exchange receipts from securities can be used for reinvestment. Persons residing outside the Sterling Area making investments in the United Kingdom must provide appropriate foreign exchange or sterling from a nonresident account related to their country or monetary area. Capital directly invested after January 1, 1950 in projects ap- proved by the exchange control authorities may be repatriated at any time to the extent of the original investment and from the proceeds of that investment. Nonresident Accounts The sterling accounts of nonresidents, i.e., those resident out- side the Sterling Area, are available for payments in the Sterling Area and for transfers to residents in the same country or mone- tary area as the account-holder. The extent of transferability of these accounts to other nonresidents varies according to the four groups described below. However, considerable transf erability is achieved by granting licenses to effect payments outside the prescribed arrangements. 1. American Accounts (Bolivia, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippine Republic, United States and possessions, and Venezuela). Payments from these accounts may be freely made to any account related to countries in the American Account Area, the Transferable Account Area, and the Residual Group or to Canadian Accounts. Balances on American Accounts may be freely converted into Canadian or U.S. dollars. 2. Transferable Accounts (Anglo-Egyptian Sudan, Austria, Chile, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland, Egypt, Ethiopia, Finland, Greece, Italian Monetary Area, Netherlands Monetary Area, Norway, Poland, Spanish Monetary Area, Sweden, Thailand, U.S.S.R., and the Western Zones of Germany). In addition to Transferable Accounts, there are other accounts related to countries in this area. Payments from Transferable Accounts may be freely made to any account related to the Transferable Account Area or Residual Group in re- spect of direct current transactions. Payments from other ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 162 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS accounts of residents in the Transferable Account Area may be freely made to any account, including a Transfer- able Account, related to the same country or monetary area as the account holder. 3. Bilateral Accounts (Argentina, Belgian Monetary Area, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, China, Formosa, French Franc Area, French Somaliland, Hungary, Iran, Israel, Japan, Lebanon, Paraguay, Peru, Portuguese Monetary Area, Rumania, Switzerland, Syria, Tangier, Turkey, Uruguay, Vatican City, and Yugoslavia). Payments from these ac- counts (excluding China, Formosa, and Iran to which cer- tain restrictions apply) may be freely made to any account related to the same country or monetary area as to the ac- count holder. Balances on Canadian Accounts may also be paid freely to American Accounts or converted into Can- adian or U.S. dollars. 4. Residual Group (Unclassified countries not in the above groups, including Afghanistan, Albania, Andorra, Eritrea, Liberia, Nepal, Saudi Arabia, and Yemen). Payments from these accounts may be freely made to any account related to any country in this group. Changes during 1951 January 3 Special exchange control facilities were introduced for parti- cipants in the London Cocoa Market Scheme. January 19 Austria and Greece became Transferable Account countries. February 12 Export licenses were required for certain goods of strategic value or in short supply. February 15 Certain additions were made to the list of commodities which could be imported from certain countries without an individual import license. March 7 Further additions were made to the list of commodities which could be imported from certain countries without an individual import license. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM 163 March 28 Additions were made to the list of commodities which could be imported from any country without an individual import li- cense. March 31 Additions were made to the list of goods subject to export li- censing. April 3 Further additions were made to the list of commodities which could be imported from certain countries without an individual import license. April 11 Authorized banks were permitted to buy and sell foreign bank- notes and coin for their own account at rates of exchange deter- mined on a commercial basis. May 1 Further additions were made to the list of commodities which could be imported from certain countries without an individual import license. June 8 The amount of sterling notes which travelers could bring in or take out of the United Kingdom was raised from £5 to £10. June 20 All exports to China and Hong Kong became subject to export licensing; in respect of specified strategic materials, no licenses would be granted. June 26 The normal maximum allowance of £1,000 which an emigrant to a country not a Sterling Area territory or an EPU country could have transferred to his new country over a period of four years was increased by an additional allowance of £250 per de- pendent with a maximum of £1,000 also spread over a period of four years. August 21 Further additions were made to the list of commodities which could be imported from certain countries without an individual import license. August 31 The Western Zones of Germany, comprising the territory of the Federal Republic of Germany and the British, French, and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 164 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS United States Sectors of Berlin, became a Transferable Account country. September 10 Iran was removed from the list of Transferable Account coun- tries. November 7 The basic exchange allowance for tourists traveling abroad to certain countries was reduced from £100 to £50 per twelve months.5 November 8 A number of commodities which could previously be imported without restriction as to amount from certain countries was made subject to individual import licensing except for those im- ports coming from territories in the Sterling Area. In respect of those items thus made subject to limitations, import quotas valid until June 30, 1952 were published for imports from the coun- tries affected. December 17 Official quotations for forward exchange were withdrawn, and authorized banks were permitted to deal in forward exchange at rates governed by market conditions. The spread of official spot rates for the U.S. dollar was widened from $2.79%-$2.80V8 per £1 to $2.78-$2.82 per £1. Authorized banks were permitted to effect authorized transactions in the exchange market within these limits, and for other specified currencies within published official rates for those currencies. Authorized banks were allowed to deal in spot and forward exchange between themselves, and to cover permitted transactions in Canadian or U.S. dollars spot or forward with banks in the American Account Area or in Canada. Sterling held on Canadian and American Accounts could be freely transferred between such accounts or converted into either Canadian or U.S. dollars. Authorized banks were permitted to deal with persons outside the Sterling Area in spot U.S. dollars against spot Canadian dollars. 5 Effective January 30, 1952, this basic exchange allowance was fu r ther reduced to £25. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY Date of Introduction May 1931. Last major revision October 6, 1949. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through licenses for most imports, granted up to the limits of individual exchange quotas and through a multiple currency practice resulting from the applica- tion of penalty selling rates, including a fluctuating free market rate. Foreign exchange from exports must be surrendered. A multiple currency practice also results on the buying side from the application of different fixed exchange rates and the fluctu- ating free market rate. All exports require licenses. Exchange Rates No par value for the Uruguayan Peso. Three official buying and three official selling rates, an exchange premium, and a free market produce the effective rates (see Table of Exchange Rates below). Exchange Payments Imports. Most imports require import licenses, which are issued up to the limits of individual exchange quotas computed on the basis of previous imports and other criteria. However, the import of most specified essential goods from the Sterling Area is free of license.1 Imports of newsprint, inks, and card- board matrices are effected at the P 1.519 rate. Essential im- ports are effected at the P 1.90 rate. Non-essential and luxury imports are effected at the P 2.45 rate. Invisibles. Government payments are made at the P 1.519 rate. Exchange for other invisibles must be obtained in the free market, currently at P 2.40 per U.S. dollar. Capital. Transfers of capital must be effected through the free market. Exchange Receipts Exports. All exports require licenses which are granted auto- matically if the exchange proceeds have been contractually sold 1 Effective January 14, 1952, this arrangement was extended to certain essential goods from any source. 165 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 166 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS in advance to an authorized bank, except that the export of essential goods in short supply may be prohibited. Proceeds of basic exports (meat, wool, linseed, dried and salted hides and skins, and wheat) must be surrendered at the P 1.519 rate. Ex- port proceeds of bristles, edible and non-edible oils, and packing house products must be surrendered at the P 1.78 rate. Export proceeds of woolen manufactures, pork, bricks, and various manufactured products must be surrendered at the P 2.35 rate. Exports of shoes and tanned and semi-tanned leather receive a premium of P 0.25 per U.S. dollar over the P 2.35 rate, yield- ing an effective rate of P 2.60 per U.S. dollar. Invisibles. Exchange receipts from invisibles may be sold in the free market. Capital. Exchange receipts from capital may be sold in the free market. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1951) (pesos per U.S. dollar) 1.519 Selling G o v e r n m e nt p a y- ments. Newsprint, inks, and cardboard matrix imports. 1.90 Essential imports. 2.40 ( F l u c t u- ating Free M a r k et Kate) 2.45 Invisibles and capi- tal. Non - essential a nd luxury imports. Buying Basic exports (meat, wool, linseed, wheat, dried and salted skins). Exports of rice, non- edible o i l s, p a c k i ng house products, etc. Exports of woolen man- ufactures, pork, bricks, and other manufactured products. Invisibles and capital. 1.519 1.78 2.35 2.40 ( F l u c t u- ating Free M a r k et Rate) 2.60 E x p o r ts of s h o e s, (P 2.35 rate tanned and semi-tanned plus P 0.25 leather (until Decem- premium) ber 31, 1951). Note: An exchange tax of 1% is applied to the purchase of export proceeds. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY 167 Changes during 1951 January 4 The requirement of a prior permit for imports of specified essential (first category) goods from the Sterling Area was reimposed. February 22 The requirement of a prior permit for imports of specified less-essential (second category) goods from Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United States was abolished. The abolition of this require- ment was also applied to imports of fuels, lubricants, machinery, and raw materials financed in pounds sterling. October 11 The requirement of a prior permit for imports of specified essential (first category) and specified less-essential (second category) goods from the Sterling Area was removed. December 4 The requirement of a prior permit for all imports was rein- stated. December 12 The requirement of a prior permit for specified essential (first category) goods (except bus and truck chassis) from the Sterling Area, was removed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA Date of Introduction August 1934. Last major revision July 1941. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through licenses required for a few goods of a type produced locally. Exchange payments are not restricted. Multiple currency practices result from the applica- tion of differential rates to export proceeds of coffee and cacao, to purchases of exchange from the petroleum companies, and to government imports. A few exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: Bolivares 3.35 = US$1. Official rate: selling Bs 3.35 per US$1; the corresponding buying rate fluctuates around Bs 3.325 per US$1. Other buying and selling rates have been established (see Table of Exchange Rates below). Exchange Payments Imports. Import licenses are required for only a few goods, mostly of a type produced locally. Payments for government im- ports are effected at the Bs 3.09 rate. Payments for all other imports are effected at the Bs 3.35 rate. Invisibles. Payments for invisible transactions may be freely made at the Bs 3.35 rate. Capital. Payments for transfers of capital may be freely made at the Bs 3.35 rate. Exchange Receipts Exports. The export of strategic materials to certain coun- tries is prohibited. Export licenses are required for a few pro- ducts essential to the domestic economy. The oil companies mjist surrender export proceeds to the extent of their local currency requirements at the Bs 3.09 rate. A Bs 3.046259 rate is applied to exchange surrendered by them in excess of the Central Bank's sales of exchange to domestic buyers during any one year. The proceeds of exports other than petroleum are sold at the Bs 3.32 rate, but if the world prices for cacao and coffee are below cer- tain levels, a proportion of the proceeds of cacao and unwashed coffee exports can be sold at the Bs 4.25 rate, and of washed coffee exports at the Bs 4.80 rate. 168 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA 169 Invisibles. Exchange receipts from invisibles are freely dis- posable or can be sold at the Bs 3.32 rate. Capital. Exchange receipts from capital are freely disposable or can be sold at the Bs 3.32 rate. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1951) (bolivares per U.S. dollar) Selling 3.09 Government imports. 3.35 All other payments. 3.09 3.046259 Buying Local currency require- ments of p e t r o l e um companies in excess of Central Bank's foreign exchange sales. Local currency require- ments of p e t r o l e um companies up to the limit of Central Bank's foreign exchange sales. Coffee and cacao ex- ports in a proportion d e p e n d i ng on w o r ld prices. All other ex- ports except petroleum. Invisibles and capital. Cacao and unwashed coffee exports in a pro- portion depending on world prices. Washed coffee exports in a proportion depend- ing on world prices. Note: The above rates for coffee and cacao need not be effective rates since sales at these rates are varied in ac- cordance with the world prices for these commodities. Taxes of Bs 2 and Bs 1% per 46 kilograms are levied on washed and unwashed coffee, respec- tively. 3.32 4.25 4.80 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 170 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Changes during 1951 May 18 A revised list of commodities subject to export licensing was issued. May 25 The requirement that a proportion of local butter must be purchased in order to obtain a license to import foreign butter was abolished. May 25 The privilege hitherto received by Governments of the States and Territories of the Republic, the Government of the Federal District, and Official Autonomous Institutes to purchase ex- change at the favorable rate of Bs 3.09 per U.S. dollar was with- drawn. Exchange purchases by these entities at this favorable rate may be authorized by the National Government in excep- tional circumstances. June 22 The export, including re-shipment, of strategic materials to China and North Korea was prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA Date of Introduction October 7, 1931. Revised October 25, 1946, and February 4, 1948. Nature of Restrictive System Authorizations of imports and exports are granted along the general lines of the economic plan. The system of centralized management of foreign trade and concentration of foreign trade operations in a few central enterprises prevailing hitherto has been replaced by a new system where the distribution of foreign exchange is made within individual economic branches, while foreign trade is carried by an increasing number of particular enterprises. Licenses are required for all imports and nontrade payments. Foreign exchange must, with some exceptions, be surrendered. Exchange Rates Par value: Yugoslav Dinars 300 — US$1. Official rates: buy- ing and selling at the par value. Exchange Payments Imports. Authorizations of imports are granted along the general lines of the economic plan. An exchange license is re- quired in addition to an import license. Import licenses are freely granted for imports paid from exchange left to export enter- prises out of their export proceeds. Invisibles. Payments abroad require licenses. Persons trav- eling abroad may take with them a maximum of Din 500 in Yugoslav banknotes. Capital. Transfers of capital require approval. Exchange Receipts Exports. All exports require licenses. Exchange receipts must be surrendered, but individual enterprises are allowed to use freely 80 per cent of the receipts realized in excess of the planned targets. Exchange receipts derived from the export of certain foodstuffs and agricultural products for which there are no planned targets, need only be 50 per cent surrendered, the balance being for the use of the exporting enterprise. 171 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 172 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Invisibles. Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered. Persons may bring in a maximum of Din 500 in Yugo- slav banknotes. Capital. The investment of foreign capital requires approval. Exchange receipts from capital must be surrendered. Changes during 1951 The process of re-organizing the Yugoslav economic system and equilibrating the Yugoslav prices, started in 1950, made considerable progress. During 1951, the system of rationing on the domestic market was abolished, and the multiple price levels replaced by a uniform free market price system that enabled the elimination of a number of direct restrictions in domestic trade and an alleviation of direct restrictions on foreign trade. In ac- cordance with the principle of transferring the management of enterprises to working collectives, the state monopoly in foreign trade has been gradually replaced by a system in which an in- creasing number of producing enterprises conduct their own foreign trade. Accordingly, the method of exchange and import control underwent considerable changes, allowing more freedom for such enterprises in their foreign trade transactions and in the use of foreign exchange. The process of contemplated change is, however, not yet concluded. August Two lists of export commodities were published in respect of which exporters could utilize fixed percentages of the exchange proceeds of their exports to pay for their imports. December 28 With the concurrence of the International Monetary Fund, the par value of the Yugoslav dinar was changed from Din 50 to Din 300 per U.S. dollar. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDICES ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX I Article VIII, Sections 1 to 4 Inclusive, and Article XIV of the Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund Article VIII. General Obligations of Members SECTION 1. Introduction.—In addition to the obligations as- sumed under other articles of this Agreement, each member undertakes the obligations set out in this Article. SEC. 2. Avoidance of restrictions on current payments.— (a) Subject to the provisions of Article VII, Section 3 ( 6 ), and Article XIV, Section 2, no member, shall, without the approval of the Fund, impose restrictions on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions. (b) Exchange contracts which involve the currency of any member and which are contrary to the exchange control regula- tions of that member maintained or imposed consistently with this Agreement shall be unenforceable in the territories of any member. In addition, members may, by mutual accord, co-oper- ate in measures for the purpose of making the exchange control regulations of either member more effective, provided that such measures and regulations are consistent with this Agreement. SEC. 3. Avoidance of discriminatory currency practices.— No member shall engage in, or permit any of its fiscal agencies referred to in Article V, Section 1, to engage in, any discrimina- tory currency arrangements or multiple currency practices ex- cept as authorized under this Agreement or approved by the Fund. If such arrangements and practices are engaged in at the date when this Agreement enters into force the member con- cerned shall consult with the Fund as to their progressive re- moval unless they are maintained or imposed under Article XIV, Section 2, in which case the provisions of Section 4 of that Arti- cle shall apply. SEC. 4. Convertibility of foreign-held balances.— (a) Each member shall buy balances of its currency held by another mem- ber if the latter, in requesting the purchase, represents (i) that the balances to be bought have been recently acquired as a result of current transactions; or ( i i) that their conversion is needed for making payments for current transactions. The buying member shall have the option to pay either in the currency of the member making the request or in gold. (6) The obligation in (a) above shall not apply 175 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 176 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS (i) when the convertibility of the balances has been restricted consistently with Section 2 of this Article, or Article VI, Section 3; or ( i i) when the balances have accumulated as a result of trans- actions effected before the removal by a member of re- strictions maintained or imposed under Article XIV, Sec- tion 2; or (iii) when the balances have been acquired contrary to the ex- change regulations of the member which is asked to buy them; or ( iv) when the currency of the member requesting the purchase has been declared scarce under Article VII, Section 3 (a) ; or (v) when the member requested to make the purchase is for any reason not entitled to buy currencies of other members from the Fund for its own currency. Article XIV. Transitional Period SECTION 1. Introduction.—The Fund is not intended to pro- vide facilities for relief or reconstruction or to deal with inter- national indebtedness arising out of the war. SEC. 2. Exchange restrictions. —In the post-war transi- tional period members may, notwithstanding the provisions of any other articles of this Agreement, maintain and adapt to changing circumstances (and, in the case of members whose ter- ritories have been occupied by the enemy, introduce where nec- essary) restrictions on payments and transfers for current inter- national transactions. Members shall, however, have continuous regard in their foreign exchange policies to the purposes of the Fund; and, as soon as conditions permit, they shall take all pos- sible measures to develop such commercial and financial arrange- ments with other members as will facilitate international pay- ments and the maintenance of exchange stability. In particular, members shall withdraw restrictions maintained or imposed under this Section as soon as they are satisfied that they will be able, in the absence of such restrictions, to settle their bal- ance of payments in a manner which will not unduly encumber their access to the resources of the Fund. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX I 177 SEC. 3. Notification to the Fund.—Each member shall notify the Fund before it becomes eligible under Article XX, Sec- tion 4 (c) or (d), to buy currency from the Fund, whether it intends to avail itself of the transitional arrangements in Sec- tion 2 of this Article, or whether it is prepared to accept the ob- ligations of Article VIII, Section 2, 3, and 4. A member avail- ing itself of the transitional arrangements shall notify the Fund as soon thereafter as it is prepared to accept the above-men- tioned obligations. SEC. 4. Action of the Fund relating to restrictions.—Not later than three years after the date on which the Fund begins operations and in each year thereafter, the Fund shall report on the restrictions still in force under Section 2 of this Article. Five years after the date on which the Fund begins operations, and in each year thereafter, any member still retaining any restric- tions inconsistent with Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, or 4, shall consult the Fund as to their fur ther retention. The Fund may, if it deems such action necessary in exceptional circumstances, make representations to any member that conditions are favor- able for the withdrawal of any particular restriction, or for the general abandonment of restrictions, inconsistent with the pro- visions of any other article of this Agreement. The member shall be given a suitable time to reply to such representations. If the Fund finds that the member persists in maintaining restrictions which are inconsistent with the purposes of the Fund, the mem- ber shall be subject to Article XV, Section 2 ( a ). SEC. 5. Nature of transitional period. —In its relations with members, the Fund shall recognize that the post-war transi- tional period will be one of change and adjustment and in mak- ing decisions on requests occasioned thereby which are presented by any member it shall give the member the benefit of any rea- sonable doubt. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX II Procedure of Consultations Under Article XIV, Section 4, as Adopted by the Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund, January 24, 1952 1. Article XIV, Section 4 ("Action of the Fund relating to restrictions"), prescribes that "Five years after the date on which the Fund begins operations, and in each year thereafter, any member still retaining any restrictions inconsistent with Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, or 4, shall consult the Fund as to their fur- ther retention." Consequently, the countries to be covered in the consultations are those which still retain any transitional arrangements and they shall consult the Fund as to their fur- ther retention. The guiding principles concerning the procedure are here indicated. 2. The procedure for the consultation will be adapted from case to case. The procedure for any particular country will de- pend upon a number of factors, inter alia, the consultations, if any, previously conducted with the Fund and the specific sub- ject matter covered in the consultation. In all cases, the con- sultation would cover not only the the detailed presentation of the restrictive system, but also the underlying factors affecting the necessity of further retention of such transitional arrange- ments. In many cases, however, the consultations will also in- clude consideration of the ways and means of eliminating or adapting such restrictions, and the possibility of substituting for the payment restrictions suitable alternative measures. In appropriate cases the consultations may also afford an op- portunity for discussing with the member countries arrange- ments by which the Fund might help the member concerned overcome the causes for the retention of the transitional ar- rangements. Such arrangements might include technical as- sistance and use of the Fund's resources. 3. The consultations will consist of the following stages: (a) The obtaining of necessary data. With respect to data on restrictive systems, it is intended to make use of a ques- tionnaire which has been prepared by the staff and which will be sent to members concerned. In nearly all cases, it is planned that the Fund staff should prepare answers to the questionnaire and have the answers checked and, 178 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX II 179 if necessary, supplemented by the member. This will be done either through the post, or, where essential, by brief staff visits. (b) Analysis of the technical aspects of the restrictive system and of the underlying factors affecting their further re- tention. (c) Discussions between the staff and representatives of the member countries concerned, in order to consider the above analyses and to formulate recommendations for the consideration of the Executive Board. (d) Consideration by the Executive Board of the staff's recommendations, together with the underlying analyses. The member will be entitled to participate in this dis- cussion. Views or findings of the Executive Board would be appropriately notified to the member. (e) Where appropriate, the consultation may include also the consideration by the Fund of problems related to the transitional arrangements, such as technical assistance, use of the Fund's resources, etc. 4. The consultations will start in March 1952. The order of countries will be worked out in contact with the Executive Directors concerned, with due regard to the understanding that the corresponding consultations conducted by the Contracting Parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, wher- ever relevant, will take place after the Fund has completed its consultation with the country concerned. 5. It is planned that to the maximum extent possible all phases of the consultations will take place in Washington. 6. During the preliminary work, and in the course of the consultations, general problems which arise requiring considera- tion by the Executive Board will be submitted as they arise. RECOMMENDATION : It is recommended that if the Board agrees, it authorize that plans proceed on the basis of the above procedures and that members be informed of the procedures. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX III Enquiry on Exchange Systems and Related Matters Multiple Currency Practices 1. Where there is more than one exchange rate effective in your territory for purchases or for sales of United States dollars, list the various rates for the U.S. dollar, and indi- cate: (a) in as full detail as practicable the types of transactions (and in the case of trade transactions, the individual import and export commodities) to which each rate applies; (b) for each rate whether it is set by the central authori- ties or left to be determined wholly or partially by mar- ket forces. In the latter case, indicate whether the monetary authorities endeavor to influence the level of of the rate (i) by operations in that market; (ii) by varying the volume of permitted transactions. Indicate in general what action under (i) and ( i i) has been taken in the course of the year 1951; (c) the approximate amount, or percentage of total trans- actions, passing at each U.S. dollar rate (whether or not the transactions are in U.S. dollars or in some other foreign currency) during a recent representative period; and (d) the official procedures established to ensure that trans- actions are effected at the appropriate rates. 2. Give details of any taxes, official surcharges, or premiums which apply in your territory to exchange transactions, pointing out where the tax, surcharge, or premium is not uniform for all currencies and types of payments. Indicate whether or not these taxes, etc., have been included in com- puting the rates listed in the answer to 1, above. Describe how the various taxes, surcharges, or premiums are calcu- lated and when they are collected or paid. In the case of taxes and surcharges, state the purposes, if any, to which the proceeds are assigned, e.g., export subsidies, etc. 3. Where exchange certificates exist, give details concerning their issue, use, negotiability and period of validity. In what currency or currencies are they denominated? 180 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX III 181 Cross Rates 4a. List any exchange rates in your territory for a Fund mem- ber's currency, for which a par value is currently estab- lished with the Fund, that are not related at such par value to the corresponding rate(s) quoted in your territory for the U.S. dollar. b. If for any foreign currency an official rate is not fixed within your territory by your monetary authorities, what measures are taken to ensure the maintenance of orderly cross rates? Exchange Payments 5. Describe the relationship between your control over ex- change and control over imports, and insofar as the latter affects the policy and operation of the former, describe the nature and functioning of your import control system, giv- ing such details of differences in treatment according to type and/or country of origin of commodity, criteria and conditions for licensing, etc., as well as comparative statis- tics and other data as you consider necessary to afford an understanding of how the system operates in practice. 6. To the extent not covered in your answer to Q. 5, describe the official requirements which must be fulfilled before banks or others may sell foreign exchange for imports, open import letters of credit, or effect payments for im- ports in local currency to non-residents. The answer to this question should be sufficiently detailed to include: (a) Reference to the documents normally required to sup- port an application to make payment for an import. (b) Whether the submission of these supporting docu- ments (or promise to submit them) automatically en- ables the exchange to be acquired or the payment to be made. If not, the other factors governing the granting or refusal of permission to effect the desired payment. (c) Any difference in requirements or procedure for par- ticular categories of importers, e.g., established trad- ers, industrial importers, government departments, etc. (d) Any official requirements which delay payments for imports of all commodities or those of particular types or origins until some period after arrival of the goods. (e) The control procedure applied to supervise the valu- ation of imports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 182 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 7. Describe your treatment of payments by residents to non- residents for the various types of invisibles, giving details of any limitations or conditions attaching to approval, in- cluding any differences of treatment according to country or currency. (A list of typical invisible items is attached for your guidance.) 8a. Where there is a system of exchange licensing state the period of time normally taken — ( i) between applying for and receiving an exchange license; and (ii) between receiv- ing an exchange license and the exchange being made avail- able. b. Where, in the case of payments normally approved, the ac- tual granting of exchange is subject to delay, describe the conditions under which exchange is released, waiting list procedures, priorities for different types of payment, and differences of treatment according to the currency for which application is made. 9. Describe any obligations imposed on importers and other residents prescribing the method or channel of payment to persons abroad, e.g., in a particular currency or to a par- ticular type of non-resident account or through a specified institution. The description should cover any difference in the general nature of the obligations according to the coun- try (or group of countries) to which payment is to be made. 10. Give details of any official regulations requiring that de- posits be made in advance of the making of international payments or of the opening of letters of credit. Exchange Receipts 11. Give details of any obligations requiring exporters and other residents to surrender exchange to an authorized bank or other authority. To what transactions and to what cur- rencies are such obligations applied? Describe the control procedures applied (i) to enforce these requirements and (ii) to supervise the valuation of exports. 12. Where the surrender of exchange receipts is a require- ment of your system, describe any exceptions such as: (a) Where residents are allowed to retain foreign exchange receipts to make payments abroad for purposes for which they would otherwise be permitted to purchase exchange. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX III 183 (b) Where exchange receipts may be retained, used, or disposed of in a manner which would otherwise not be allowed, or be allowed only under less favorable condi- tions, e.g., as an incentive for export drives. The de- scription should indicate (i) the foreign currencies and the types of exports (goods and services) to which the arrangements apply; ( i i) the conditions under which the proceeds may be retained; (iii) the pur- poses for which the proceeds may be used; ( iv) the nature of the market in which the proceeds may be sold. The answer should include a brief description of the con- trol measures to supervise the operation of the arrange- ments. 13. Give details of any official requirements existing in your territory limiting the free and immediate receipt and use by your residents of the full local currency equivalent of the foreign exchange surrendered by them. 14. Describe any obligations imposed on exporters and other residents prescribing the method or channel by which pay- ment should be received from abroad, e.g., in a particular currency, from a particular type of non-resident account, or through a specified institution. The description should cover any differences in the general nature of the obliga- tions according to the country (or group of countries) from which payment is to be received. 15. To the extent not covered in your answers to questions 11-14, describe the nature and functioning of your export control system in sufficient detail to show how the system works in practice. Use of Non-Resident Accounts 16. Where your system provides for the maintenance by non- residents of accounts in your currency, describe the nature and types of such accounts and how they may be operated and used for making international payments. The descrip- tion should cover any provisions made for the account holder to obtain conversion into his own currency of amounts credited to his account. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 184 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Barter 17. If private barter transactions are permitted, other than in isolated and exceptional cases, give brief details of the commodities and the countries involved, and indicate ap- proximately what percentage of total exports takes place under such arrangements. Payments and Clearing Agreements 18. To the extent not covered in your answers to previous ques- tions, describe, in general terms, how the various methods of payment provided for under your exchange system and the extent to which payments are allowed to a particular country are conditioned by, or related to, the terms of any payments or clearing arrangements entered into by, or on behalf of, your territory with other territories. Forward Exchange Transactions 19. Give a brief description of official requirements, rates, etc., in respect of forward exchange transactions. Currency Notes 20. Give details of limitations imposed on (a) the export and import of domestic currency notes; and (b) the export, im- port, use and negotiation within your territory of foreign currency notes. Capital Movements 21. To the extent not covered in the answers to previous ques- tions, describe the limitations or conditions imposed upon inward and outward transfers of capital by: (a) residents, and (b) non-residents. In answering this question it is not necessary to give fu ll details of measures such as complex requirements regarding transactions in securities. General requirements applying to capital movements and special points such as the follow- ing should, however, be covered: Limitations on the receipt and the transfer of non- resident-owned capital assets. Registration requirements for non-resident investments and particulars of any repatriation guarantees. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX III 185 Special arrangements for foreign concessions (mining, etc.). Requirements affecting resident-owned abroad and the disposal of their proceeds. Requirements affecting transfers of capital for pur- poses other than investment. investments Significant Changes in 1951 22. Point out the significant changes made during 1951 in your controls and restrictions in respect to international trade and payments, including changes in policies and adminis- tration. Also refer briefly to any major changes in your customs tar iffs during 1951 which would be significant in this context. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 186 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS ANNEX Invisible Items (See Q. 7) (i) International transportation of goods, etc. Freights, including charter hire Voyage repairs Ships' disbursements Warehousing while in transit Other transit expenses International travel fares ( i i) Travel (except international travel fares) Business travel Tourists Education expenses abroad Travel for health or family reasons International conventions ( i i i) Insurance Insurance and reinsurance premiums (excluding life insurance premiums) Life insurance premiums Insurance and reinsurance claims ( iv) Investment income Interest on securities Other interest payments Dividends Profits from business activities Rents on property ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX III 187 (v) Miscellaneous service items Facilitation of trade and services Advertising Agents' commissions and other expenses of repre- sentation Processing Salaries and wages Pensions and annuities Film rentals and royalties Other royalties and licenses Registration fees for patents and trade marks Subscriptions to newspapers and periodicals Membership fees in associations (v i) Donations, including migrants' transfers Remittances to f amiles abroad Transfer of emigrants' funds for own use Charitable remittances Legacies (v i i) Repayment of commercial credit (v i i i) Repatriation of investment capital Contractual amortization Depreciation of direct investment ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX IV The Sterling Area: A Statement by the Commonwealth Finance Ministers The following statement was issued in London on January 21st by the Conference of Commonwealth Finance Ministers after their discussions on the prob- lems confronting the Sterling Area. Following their discussions in London from January 15th to 21st, 1952, the Conference of Commonwealth Finance Ministers issued the following statement. We recognize that the sterling area is faced with a very serious crisis which if it is not effectively dealt with will have far- reaching consequences. The crisis has arisen because the sterling area as a whole is spending more than it is earning, with the result that its gold and dollar reserves have been falling at a rapid rate. We are confident that this situation can be set right and that the steps which will be taken will give to sterling the strength it must have to continue as a widely used international currency. We are convinced that this cannot be attained by negative and restrictive methods alone, or merely by the imposition of cuts on imports from certain parts of the world. The present difficulties of the sterling area, while partly due to short-term factors, also reflect continuing underlying problems. These prob- lems must and can be solved. For this reason we are strongly of the opinion that measures taken to stop the drain upon re- serves miist form part of a long-term policy designed to restore and maintain the full strength of sterling. It is quite clear that the only way to prevent recurrent drains on the central gold reserves is for every country in the area strenuously to endeavor to live within the means which are or can be available to it. The sterling area as a whole must succeed in this endeavour. The urgency of the immediate situation and the present level of the gold reserves require that the sterling area as a whole should be in balance with the rest of the world at latest in re- spect of the second half of 1952. It is imperative that this should include at least a balance with the dollar area within the same period. 188 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX IV 189 During the course of our discussions the Finance Ministers and representatives of the Commonwealth countries in the ster- ling area agreed to bring urgently to the attention of their gov- ernments the critical nature of the present situation and the need for immediate corrective action. In this connection they will put before their governments certain definite proposals cal- culated in the aggregate to ensure that the sterling area as a whole will be in balance with the rest of the world in respect of the second half of 1952. Proposals to the same end will be re- commended by the Secretary of State for the Colonies to the governments of the territories with which he is concerned. It was also agreed that where any country in the sterling area was likely to be in over-all deficit, corrective measures should be taken as soon as possible in order to relieve the current pressure on the resources of the area. The methods by which members will contribute to these ends are within the discretion of each country concerned and will vary according to their individual circumstances. The first and most important step is to ensure that the internal economy is sound and that all possible measures are taken to combat inflation. This is not only essential for an improvement in the balance of pay- ments but it will also help to keep down the cost of living. An- other important requirement is to increase exports and earning power. In some cases long-term borrowing from outside the ster- ling area may be practicable. Finally, so far as other methods do not fu l ly achieve the desired results it will be necessary as a temporary measure to reduce imports. It was agreed that while emergency measures to stop the im- mediate drain upon the gold reserves were necessary and inevi- table they could only be palliatives. A lasting solution of the sterling area's problems must be found in order to prevent the recurrence of crises, to make sterling strong, and to establish the economies of member countries on a sound and stable basis. These aims can best be achieved when the worldwide trade of the sterling area is on a substantially higher level than at present, when sterling is freely convertible into all the main currencies of the world and its position need no longer be sup- ported by restrictions on imports. When this state of affairs has been reached the countries of the sterling area will have freer access to the output of North America and other important re- gions and to adequate resources of external capital for develop- ment. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 190 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS It is accordingly necessary that for some years to come the sterling area should be in surplus with the rest of the world (in- cluding a surplus with the dollar area) and that after taking account of available sterling assets and long-term investment from abroad all member countries should balance their external accounts. To do this in the face of the need for national security and higher standards of living clearly requires the maximum possible expansion of earning power. By the development of their pro- ductive power members of the sterling area will not only strengthen their own economies but will also help to meet the inevitably growing world demand for food, raw materials and other essential goods. Such development will require the investment of substantial financial resources and it is clear that after taking account of whatever they themselves can provide it will be necessary for many member countries to obtain those resources from overseas. For some time to come the Commonwealth will not be able to meet its growing needs entirely from its own rsoeurces and developing countries will therefore need to rely in varying de- grees on investment from outside the sterling area. We are agreed that such investment is to be welcomed and that all necessary steps should be taken to encourage it. We feel that the production of essential raw materials within the sterling area would be greatly encouraged by regularity in purchases of such materials by countries outside the area as this would contribute materially to the long-term stability of the area and indeed of the free world as a whole. We are also agreed that an examination should be made as quickly as possible of the opportunities for an early increase in the productive power of member countries and of the possibilities of matching available financial and technical resources with the enterprises most likely to achieve that purpose. This examina- tion should take account not only of the general development requirements of member countries and of their need for capital equipment but also of the possibilities of increasing their pro- duction of food, raw materials and other essential goods. We have made arrangements for such an examination to begin forthwith. While steps are thus being taken to overcome the immediate problems of the sterling area and to accelerate its development ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX IV 191 we agree that its recovery will not be complete until the condi- tions have been created in which sterling can become and remain convertible. Accordingly it is our definite objective to make sterling con- vertible and to keep it so. We intend to work towards that goal by progressive steps aimed at creating the conditions under which convertibility can be reached, and maintained. It is primarily the responsibility of the members of the ster- ling area themselves to create these conditions (including the achievement of adequate gold reserves) but they cannot be com- pletely realized without the active co-operation of other coun- tries notably those countries which are consistently in surplus with the rest of the world. We have arranged for an investigation of the steps which should be taken along the road to convertibility to begin forth- with. We reaffirm the need for frequent and comprehensive consulta- tion between governments within the Commonwealth on the problems of the sterling area. In particular, steps will be taken within the next few months and from time to time to review progress on the measures now being taken and proposed. Source: Official Text, British Information Services, Press Release, T. 7, Washington, D. C., January 23, 1952. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURVEYS OF EXCHANGE CONTROLS AND RESTRICTIONS IN Argentina Federal Republic of Germany Hashemite Kingdom of the Jordan Indonesia Israel Japan New Zealand Portugal Spain Switzerland ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA Date of Introduction October 1931. Last major revision August 28, 1950. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through licenses required for all imports, individual import quotas for some goods, licenses for nontrade payments, and through a multiple currency practice resulting from the use of a basic, a preferential, and a free market rate. Exchange proceeds of exports must be surrendered. A multiple currency practice results on the buying side from the use of three buying rates, including a free market rate. Some exports are controlled taking into account the require- ments of the internal market. Exchange Rates Basic official rates: buying Argentine Pesos 5.00, selling Ar- gentine Pesos 5.00 per US$1. Another fixed rate of Argentine Pesos 7.50 per US$1 has been established, and the use of a free market yields a fluctuating rate (see Table of Exchange Rates below). Exchange Payments Imports. All imports require exchange licenses. These li- censes are granted according to the origin and the type of im- port, usually on the basis of over-all quotas. Individual import quotas are established for certain essential goods. In respect of certain goods from specified countries,1 these licenses are freely issued. A 20 per cent penalty is payable on the unused portion of such licenses. Preferred imports, such as fuel oils, coal, and coke, are effected at the M$N 5.00 rate. Essential im- ports (foodstuffs, steel, tobacco, industrial materials, metal products, Pharmaceuticals, surgical instruments, etc.) are ef- fected at the M$N 7.50 rate. Non-essential and luxury imports (auto and watch parts, motorcycles, etc.) are effected at the free market rate, currently at M$N 14.37 per U.S. dollar. Pro- vision is made for the issuance of licenses to permit importation of industrial materials and equipment payable not earlier than 1 These countries are listed as follows: Austria, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Norway, Poland, Rumania, Switzerland, and Yugoslavia. 195 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 196 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS three or five years, of capital goods, or of certain other imports. Provision also is made for the issuance of licenses to permit importation of essential goods "without the use of exchange." A penalty of 20 per cent is payable on the unused portion of any such license. Invisibles. Payments abroad require licenses and are effected at the free market rate. Earnings of registered foreign capital up to 5 per cent per annum may be remitted through the free market. Capital. Transfers of capital require approval and are ef- fected at the free market rate. Investments abroad by residents are not normally approved. Exchange Recipts Exports. Some exports are controlled in order to take into account the requirements of the internal market. Exchange proceeds of exports must be received in the appropriate cur- rencies and surrendered. Proceeds of basic exports (meat, grains, hides, wool, etc.) must be surrendered at the M$N 5.00 rate. Proceeds of minor exports (quebracho extract, animal by-products, some textiles, etc.) must be surrendered at the M$N 7.50 rate. Proceeds of marginal exports (preserved fruit, mica, some light consumer goods) may be sold in the free market. Invisibles. Exchange receipts from invisibles may be sold in the free market. The importation of Argentine paper pesos requires approval. Capital. Exchange receipts from capital may be sold in the free market. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31,1951) (pesos per U.S. dollar) Buying 5.00 Basic exports. 7.50 Minor exports. 14.37 Marginal exports. In- ( F l u c t u- visibles. Capital. ating Free M a r k et Rate) Selling 5.00 Preferred imports. 7.50 Essential imports. 14.37 Non-essential a nd ( F l u c t u- luxury imports. In- ating Free visibles. Capital. M a r k et Rate) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA 197 Changes during 1951 February Exchange would be granted at the official free rate for im- ports under treaty arrangements with Norway, Finland, and Israel. Exchange would be granted at the official and free market rates for certain goods imported under trade agreements with Denmark, Netherlands, Hungary, and Czechoslovakia. Certain imports previously entitled to the automatic granting of prior exchange permits irrespective of the country of origin could now be made only from a limited list of countries. June Cotton and rayon textiles, electric irons, and lampstands were added to the list of goods for which prior export permits are required. June 29 Prior import permits "without use of exchange" were made subject to payment of an indemnity of 20 per cent on any unused portion. A bank guarantee for payment of the indemnity had to be obtained before July 31, 1951, or in the case of machinery before August 31, 1951. After these dates, permits for which no guarantee was obtained were canceled. Permits "without use of exchange" were now issued only to registered importers and end-users who must have a bank guarantee for the 20 per cent penalty on any unused part subject to a 10 per cent toler- ance. The issue of automatically granted exchange licenses was restricted to imports from neighboring countries and from Austria, Brazil, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Finland, Hungary, Norway, Poland, Rumania, Sweden, Switzerland, or Yugoslavia. August 25 Imports from Sweden using foreign exchange were suspended until further notice. September 7 The issuance of automatic prior exchange permits for goods from Denmark was suspended. Permits would be issued with use of official exchange for raw material components and motors to be used in the manufacture of agricultural machinery. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 198 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS All import permits "without use of exchange" were required to be revalidated by depositing with a foreign bank before Sep- tember 15, 1951 the exchange to pay for the merchandise. November Brazil and Finland were excluded from the list of countries, imports from which were automatically granted prior exchange permits. December 2k An indemnity of 20 per cent had to be paid by importers on the unused portion of prior exchange permits. A bank guarantee of payment of the indemnity is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY Date of Introduction August 1, 1931. Introduced in Western Occupation Zones by Military Government Law No. 53 of May 28, 1945, and in Berlin through Ordinance No. 337 of the Allied Command on August 21, 1946. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through import prohibitions and licenses required for most imports, and through licenses required for nontrade payments; exchange is granted for imports and nontrade payments authorized by these licenses. Foreign ex- change, with certain exceptions, must be surrendered. Certain exports require licenses. Exchange Rates On the basis of the present relation of US$0.238095=Deutsche Mark 1, the official rates are: buying DM 4.195, selling DM 4.205 per US$1. Exchange Control Territory The Federal Republic of Germany, with the three Western Occupation Zones, and the British, French, and U.S. Sectors of Berlin, constitutes a single exchange control territory, although exchange control and certain exchange restrictions are exercised between the two areas. Exchange Payments Imports. Certain imports are prohibited. Imports require import licenses1 and exchange licenses. Exchange is automatic- ally granted for authorized imports. Invisibles. Payments abroad require licenses which are free- ly granted for expenses incidental to trade transactions. Persons traveling abroad may take with them a maximum of DM 40 in German banknotes.2 1 Effective January 1, 1952, important changes in policy and procedure were made: purchase authorizations were required in order to conclude import contracts. Normally, import licenses would be granted automatically where purchase authorizations have been obtained. Purchase authorizations and import licenses would be granted for a large range of goods from EPU countries without restriction as to amount. 2 Effective May 1, 1952, this limit was changed to DM 20 but persons per- mitted to bring in DM 200 when entering the Federal Territory could take out DM 100. 199 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 200 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Capital. Transfers of capital are not normally approved. Foreigners are allowed to sell their blocked Deutsche Marks held in West German banks to other foreigners. Exchange Receipts Exports. Some exports require licenses. Foreign exchange from exports must be surrendered. Exporters of commodities other than specified foodstuffs and basic raw materials may bene- fit from the foreign exchange working fund arrangements which provide that a portion of their exchange receipts may be used to assist export industries to cover their marginal requirements of foreign raw and auxiliary materials. Invisibles. Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered. Persons may bring in a maximum of DM 100 in Ger- man banknotes.3 Capital. The investment of foreign capital requires a license which is granted under certain conditions. Foreigners who ac- quire mark deposits from other foreigners are authorized to use them for the purchase of designated securities. Changes during 1951 January 30 The utilization of export bonus (retention quota) funds for the importation of animals, foods tuffs, and stimulants was pro- hibited. February 8 Nonresidents were permitted to utilize up to DM 75 per day from their Deutsche Mark accounts for travel and living ex- penses of themselves and their families in Western Germany, with a max imum of DM 200. February 21 The trade liberalization program affecting listed imports from EPU countries was suspended temporarily. February 27 A temporary embargo was announced on nearly all imports from EPU countries. Most imports required the prior approval of the Ministry of Economics. March 3 Foreigners were authorized to sell their blocked Deutsche Marks held on deposit with banks in West Germany or Western Berlin to other foreigners. Foreigners who acquire such 3 Effective May 1, 1952, this limit was raised to DM 200 per person. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY 201 Deutsche Mark deposits from other foreigners were authorized to use them for the purchase of designated securities. March 22 It was announced that the 20 per cent dollar export retention quota system was abolished. From March 22 to June 22 the bonus system would operate only for certain scarce raw ma- terial imports; after June 22 exporters were not to be permitted to retain any of their dollar export earnings. June 1 Exports to China became subject to individual export license. June 2 Nonresidents were permitted to send German securities from abroad to Western German financial institutions to be sold, the proceeds to be used to defray expenses of revalidating other securities. June 20 The amount foreigners traveling to Germany were allowed to carry with them was raised from DM 40 to DM 100. June 23 A foreign exchange working fund arrangement replaced the "foreign exchange bonus" system which was terminated June 22. Manufacturers of commodities other than specified food- s tu f fs and basic raw materials were permitted to use 3 per cent (in special cases, 5 per cent) of their export proceeds for certain raw materials and semi-finished goods to be used direct- ly in export production. In August, this amount was fixed uni- formly at 4 per cent, with retroactive effect to June 23. September 21-22 The compulsory cash deposit requirement in connection with the granting of import permits was abolished. December 15 A decree was issued by which import procedure was to be augmented by the requirement of a purchase authorization be- fore importers could conclude contracts. The issue of a pur- chase authorization would normally allow the automatic issue of an import license. This decree was to come into effect Janu- ary 1, 1952, when restrictions as to amount would not be applied to the issue of purchase authorizations or import licenses in respect of a large range of goods imported from EPU countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF THE JORDAN Date of Introduction September 1939. Revised July 1, 1950. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through licenses granted up to the limits of individual import quotas and through a multiple cur- rency practice consisting of exchange taxes on payments. All foreign exchange receipts must be surrendered. Exchange Rates Official rates: buying US$2.82, selling US$2.78 per Jordan Dinar 1. Taxes applicable to import transactions and payments for invisibles yield the effective selling rates (see Table of Ex- change Rates below). Exchange Payments All payments abroad require licenses. Exchange taxes of 1 per cent and 3 per cent are applied to nontrade payments in "soft" and "hard currencies",1 respectively; for trade transac- tions, equivalent import license taxes are applied. An Air Force Tax of 100 per cent on these taxes is added to them. Persons leaving Jordan for Syria or Lebanon may take out a maximum of JD 100 and persons leaving for any other country, JD 20. Persons leaving Jordan may take out the equivalent of JD 10 in currencies other than that of the Jordan Currency Board. Remittances to neighboring Arab countries and the Sterling Area may be made by postal order up to JD 5 per month per person. Exchange Receipts All exchange receipts must be surrendered. Persons entering Jordan from Syria and Lebanon may bring in a maximum of JD 100, and persons coming from other countries JD 20. 1 "Hard currencies" are listed as U.S. dollars. 202 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF THE JORDAN 203 Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1951) (Jordan dinars per U.S. dollar) Buying All incoming payments. 2.78 2.82 Selling G o v e r n m e nt p a y- ments. Payments to "soft currency" countries. 2.8356 ( 2 . 78 r a te p l us 2% tax) 2.9468 ( 2 . 78 r a te p l us 6 % tax) Note: The above taxes include the import or exchange permit fee and the Air Force Tax of 100% of the amount of the fee. Payments to "hard currency" countries. Changes during 1951 January 16 Persons entering Jordan from Syria and Lebanon could bring in a maximum of JD 100 and persons coming from any other territory, JD 20. Persons leaving Jordan for Syria or Lebanon may take out a maximum of JD 100 and persons leaving for any other territory, JD 20. Persons leaving Jordan could take out the equivalent of JD 10 in currencies other than that of the Jordan Currency Board. January 30 Restrictions imposed on the importation of millet and corn were lifted. December 17 The official rates for the U.S. dollar were changed from US$2.80125 to US$2.82 buying, and from US$2.79875 to US$2.78 selling, per JD 1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA Date of Introduction May 10, 1940. Last major revision March 5, 1951* Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through import prohibitions, li- censes required for non-prohibited imports, through a multiple currency practice resulting from the use of an exchange certifi- cate rate and of an "inducement" certificate rate, and through licenses required for nontrade payments. Foreign exchange, with certain exceptions, must be surrendered. A multiple currency practice results on the buying side from the purchase from ex- porters and others surrendering exchange certificates at a fixed price. All exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Official rates: buying Rupiah 3.79, selling Rupiah 3.81 per US$1. Exchange certificate rates: buying 199 per cent, selling 200 per cent, and the sale of "inducement" certificates (required to pay for certain imports) at 200 per cent of the value of the exchange required, added to the official rates, yield the effective rates (see Table of Exchange Rates below). Exchange Payments Imports. All imports require import and exchange licenses which are issued in combined form. These licenses are issued, in respect of certain goods, to most importers. For certain other goods in a so-called "free list", these licenses are issued to any importer up to certain quota limits. For imports in these two categories, an exchange certificate for 100 per cent of the amount involved must also be provided by the applicant in order to pur- chase the exchange. Exchange certificates are sold by the Gov- ernment through authorized banks at a price of 200 per cent on the nominal value. In addition, any non-prohibited import, ex- cept for those reserved to newly-established importers of In- donesian nationality, can be made with "inducement" certificates which are sold at a price fixed periodically by the Government. 1A fur ther significant revision took place February 4, 1952; see note after "Changes during 1951." 204 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA 205 The cost of such "inducement" certificates also amounts to 200 per cent on the nominal value, which is in addition to the cost of the exchange certificate and the exchange itself. Barter trans- action in a limited range of native products are allowed with Hong Kong and Singapore. Invisibles. Payments abroad require licenses. Foreign ex- change is granted for all purposes connected with trade and for the remittance of dividends due to nonresidents. In addition to the exchange license, an exchange certificate for 100 per cent of the amount involved (50 per cent in the case of payments related to merchandise exports) must also be provided in order to pur- chase the required exchange. Capital Transfers of capital require approval and an ex- change certificate for 100 per cent of the amount involved must also be provided. Investments abroad by residents and remittance of nonresident capital are not normally approved. Exchange Receipts Exports. All exports require licenses. Exporters receiving foreign exchange must surrender it. In addition to the local currency equivalent of their exchange proceeds, they receive nominally for 50 per cent of the amount involved, an exchange certificate which must be sold immediately to the Government through an authorized bank at a price fixed by the authorities— currently 199 per cent of the face value. Exporters of certain native products other than pepper, rubber, coffee, tea, and tobacco, receive "inducement" certificates, representing 5 per cent, 7% per cent, or 10 per cent of the value of their exports, and these "inducement'* certificates can be used to effect certain imports. Export proceeds must be received in foreign exchange appropriate to the country of destination, but there are special exchange ar- rangements for certain foreign-owned oil companies. Invisibles. Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered. In most cases, an exchange certificate is also issued for 50 per cent of the amount surrendered. In respect of adjust- ments, rebates, and refunds related to merchandise imports or services, exchange certificates are issued for 100 per cent. Capital. Exchange receipts from capital must be surrendered, and in most cases, an exchange certificate is also issued for 50 per cent of the amount surrendered. Such certificates are issued 100 per cent in respect of direct investments officially acknowl- edged by the exchange control authorities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 206 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1951) 3.79 ( O f f i c i al Rate) 7.54 (Exchange Cer t if ica te Rate) 7.56 ( Rp 3 . 79 r a te p l us 5 0 % E x - change Cer- t i f ica te Rate) 11.33 ( Rp 3 . 79 r a te p l us E x c h a n ge C e r t i f i c a te Rate) (rupiah per U.S. dollar) Buying Export proceeds and most invisibles. Adjustments, refunds, and rebates. Approved capital. 3.81 ( O f f i c i al Rate) 7.62 (Exchange Cer t if ica te R a te a nd a lso "In- due em e n t" C e r t i f i c a te Rate) 11.43 ( Rp 3 . 81 r a te p l us E x c h a n ge C e r t i f i c a te Rate) 19.05 ( Rp 3 . 81 r a te p l us E x c h a n ge C e r t i f i c a te R a te p l us " I n d u c e- ment" Cer- t i f ic a te Rate) Selling Imports with import license. Authorized invisibles and capi- tal. Imports with "in- ducement" certifi- cate. Note: Other effective buying rates be- tween Rp 7.56 and Rp 11.33 are applic- able to exchange derived from the ex- port of certain minor native products, in respect of which exporters receive "inducement" certificates to the extent of 5%, 1%% or 10% of the exchange surrendered. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA 207 Changes during 1951 January 1 The special accounts of nonresident private individuals who left Indonesia after August 1, 1946 (later amended to May 10, 1940) were divided into capital accounts and income accounts, remittances abroad being permitted from the latter up to specified limits. January 6 Holders of "inducement" certificates previously valid only for imports from "soft currency" countries could obtain approval to use them to import from other countries. February 11 The system by which exporters of native products could obtain a right to purchase foreign exchange up to a certain percentage of their export proceeds and under which this right could be sold to importers was discontinued except in respect of a few minor products. February 22 The issue of actual exchange certificates ceased. Exporters and others surrendering exchange to the authorized banks no longer effectively received an exchange certificate but had to sell it immediately to the Government at a fixed rate. March 5 An arrangement was introduced by which licenses to import certain goods, not in the import program at all or importable only in small quantity, could be purchased from the Government at a price fixed at 200 per cent of the official selling price of foreign exchange. April 1 The procedure for obtaining import and exchange licenses was simplified. The allocation of import licenses on the basis of pre- war imports was abolished. Note: Effective February 4, 1952, several significant changes were made in the exchange system. The previously-existing ex- change certificates and the "inducement" certificates were abolished. The official rate for the U.S. dollar became Rp 11.40 and this rate was made applicable to most exchange transactions except trade items in Canadian dollars, U.S. dollars, and in Japanese clearing-account dollars. Exporters for these currencies receive in addition to the rupiah equivalent at the official rate a negotiable "export certificate" for 70 per cent of export proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 208 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS surrendered. "Export certificates" are required 100 per cent in order to effect imports to be paid for in these currencies. Con- sequently, the effective rate for such transactions is dependent on the fluctuating market rate for the "export certificates". Apart from the normal import and exchange license, imports of luxury and semi-luxury goods require an additional license which can be purchased from the Government at a price fixed at 70 per cent of the official selling price of foreign exchange; if these goods are imported from Canada, Japan, or the United States, an "export certificate" must also be provided. The latter are not required for such items as rice, imports financed with MSA (EGA) allocations or by loans from the Export-Import Bank of Washington. From February 4,1952 until May 12,1952, the rate for "export certificates" fluctuated in a free market, but since then the rate is fixed weekly by the Indonesian authorities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL1 Date of Introduction Foreign exchange regulations were made effective by the Man- datory Government in 1939. Exchange control was continued in effect by the Israel Government in 1948. The exchange rate structure was revised February 14, 1952. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through licenses required for all imports, for all nontrade payments, and through a multiple cur- rency practice resulting from fixed selling rates applied to differ- ent transactions. Foreign exchange, with certain exceptions, must be surrendered. A multiple currency practice results also on the buying side from the application of different exchange rates. All exports require licenses. Exchange Rates The official rate of exchange is Israeli Pound 1—US$2.80. Other fixed rates apply to certain transactions (see Table of Exchange Rates below). Exchange Payments Imports. All imports require import licenses. Certain of these licenses are issued on the understanding that no official exchange will be granted in payment of the import. In respect of other licenses, exchange is automatically granted. Payments for highly essential imports, such as bread, flour, and sugar, are effected at the $2.80 rate. Payments for certain other essential imports, such as meats, tea, and coffee, are effected at the $1.40 rate. Payments for all other imports are effected at the $1.00 rate. Invisibles. Payments abroad require licenses. Authorized pay- ments are made at the $1.00 rate. The annual transfer of profits, interest, and repayment of loans to a maximum of 10 per cent of invested capital approved under Clause 21 of the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Investments is allowed. Capital. Transfers of capital are usually not approved. 1 In view of the substantive changes in the exchange system which became effective February 14, 1952, this survey represents the position in Israel as of that date. 209 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 210 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Exchange Receipts Exports. All exports require licenses. Exchange proceeds in "designated" currencies 2 must be surrendered. Exchange pro- ceeds from diamond exports must be surrendered at the $2.80 rate. Exchange proceeds from certain specified exports, such as citrus fruits, must be surrendered at the $1.40 rate. All other exports must be surrendered at the $1.00 rate. Invisibles. Exchange proceeds from insurance, maintenance payments, personal gifts, legacies, commissions, and income from investments must be surrendered at the $1.00 rate. Exchange proceeds from contributions from organizations, tourists, and diplomatic expenditures must be surrendered at the $1.40 rate. Exchange proceeds from all other invisibles must be sold at the $2.80 rate. A traveler may bring a maximum of I£ 25 in one pound notes into Israel. Tourists visiting Israel are expected to bring with them, in foreign currency, such amounts as they will need during their stay. Special Tourist Letters of Credit can be acquired at points of arrival against foreign currency. Un- spent balances of such Letters of Credit can be re-converted into the original foreign currency at points of departure. Declared foreign currency can be taken out. Capital. The investment of foreign capital requires approval. Investment of foreign capital approved under Clause 21 of the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Investment 1950 is sur- rendered at the $1.40 rate. Investment of foreign capital not coming under Clause 21 of the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Investment 1950 is surrendered at the $1.00 rate. The rate of exchange for proceeds of Government loans and grants may be $2.80, $1.40, or $1.00, according to the conditions agreed on. 2 "Designated" currencies are those of the following countries: Australia, Belgian Congo, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, France, Great Britain, Iceland, India, Ireland, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Nether- lands West Indies, New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Philippines, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland, Union of South Africa, United States, and Uruguay. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL 211 2.80 1.40 1.00 2.80 1.40 Schedule D imports. ( L e s s - e s s e n- tial goods) Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1951) (U.S. dollars per Israeli pound) Buying Selling Government loans and Schedule C imports. grants destined for sale (Essential foods) at this rate. Schedule A exports (diamonds). All transactions not made at the other rates. Contributions. Tourists and diplomatic. Schedule B exports. Government loans and grants destined for sale at this rate. Invest- ment approved under Clause 21 of the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Investment 1950. Exports other than those in Schedule A and B. Life insurance. In- vestment not coming under Clause 21 of the Law for the Encourage- ment of Foreign Invest- ment 1950. Government loans and grants destin- ed for sale at this rate. Income from invest- ments abroad. Individ- ual receipts of main- tenance, gifts, legacies. Commissions and fees. All other transac- tions including in- come derived from a p p r o v ed i n v e s t- ments. 1.00 Changes during 1951 January All Israeli holders of United States or Canadian dollar securi- ties were required to surrender them to Israeli authorities against cash (price of the security plus 33.5 per cent bonus for shares and 35 per cent bonus for bonds) or in exchange for 3.5 per cent Israeli dollar bonds having a 20-year currency with option to acquire 20 per cent additional bonds at issue price. March 26 All dealings in gold except by dealers authorized by the Min- ister of Finance were prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 212 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS November New import restrictions were imposed limiting the granting of import licenses to most essential foods, fuel, and fertilizers. All Israeli holders of sterling securities were required to sur- render them to Israeli authorities against cash (price of security plus 80 per cent bonus) 'or in exchange for 3.5 per cent Israeli dollar bonds having a 20-year currency with option to acquire 30 per cent additional bonds at issue price. 1952 February 14 Three exchange rates became effective and the transactions and commodities to which each rate would apply were specified. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN Date of Introduction May 1933. Completely revised December 1, 1949. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through licenses required for all imports and licenses required for nontrade payments; exchange is granted for imports and nontrade payments authorized by these licenses. Foreign exchange must be surrendered. Certain exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Official rates: buying Yen 358.95, selling Yen 361.05 per US$1. Exchange Payments Payments to the Sterling Area must be effected in pounds sterling; to countries with which there are open account arrange- ments, through prescribed accounts; and to all other territories, in U.S. dollars. Imports. Most imports require import licenses which are freely granted for certain categories of imports. Exchange is auto- matically granted for authorized imports. Invisibles. Payments abroad require licenses. Foreign ex- change is freely granted for expenses incidental to trade trans- actions. Capital. Transfers of capital require approval. External debt service requires approval, which is granted freely in the terms laid down when the original investment was approved. Exchange Receipts Exchange receipts from the Sterling Area must be received in pounds sterling; from countries with which there are open account arrangements, through prescribed accounts; and from all other territories, in U.S. dollars. Exports. Export licenses are required for certain strategic materials and essential commodities in short supply or subject to government distribution. Exchange receipts must be surren- dered. A proportion of the foreign exchange proceeds from ex- ports (maximum of 6 per cent to non-dollar area, maximum of 213 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 214 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 10 per cent to the dollar area) may be retained by exporters and used for certain approved purposes connected with the main- tenance and expansion of their export business. Invisibles. Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered. Capital. The investment of foreign capital requires approval. Exchange receipts from capital must be surrendered. Changes during 1951 January 8 A list of 154 commodities entitled to automatic licensing ap- proval was issued. March 8 The export of certain strategic materials was prohibited. May 9 A revised list of goods which could be imported under the automatic approval system was issued. July 14 Annual foreign motion picture imports were to be limited (retroactive to April 1951) to a quota based on Japanese film production, and a payment method based on box office receipts at Japanese theaters was established. August 20 It was announced that Convertible Yen accounts would be abolished December 31, 1951. Balances could be disposed of either by remittance abroad or by a deposit set up in a foreign currency (under certain prescribed conditions). Balances re- maining on January 1, 1952 would be transferred to indigenous yen accounts. September 7 It was announced that Japanese trade with Hong Kong would now be effected in sterling instead of on a dollar basis. October 31 Several commodities were added to the list of those under the automatic approval system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN 215 December 1 The authorized Foreign Exchange Credit System was abolished as of June 30, 1951 and was reinstituted under the name of "Ex- port Promotion Foreign Exchange Allocation System" on De- cember 1,1951 (retroactive to July 1,1951). Under this arrange- ment, an exporter is entitled to the priority for allocation of a certain proportion of foreign exchange (i.e., to the extent of 10 per cent of their export proceeds from exports to the dollar area and 6 per cent from exports to other countries) in order to use the fund for approved payments related to the exporter's business. December 22 A foreign currency deposit account system was established so that persons engaged in shipping or insurance, travel agencies, and temporary (6 months) foreign residents might maintain foreign currency deposits. These deposits are restricted to U.S. dollars and sterling cash accounts, and certain restrictions are placed on receipts and payments. December 31 The Convertible Yen account arrangements ceased. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND Date of Introduction December 7, 1938. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through licenses required for almost all imports from certain countries and for some imports from all other countries, and through licenses required for nontrade payments; exchange is granted for imports and nontrade pay- ments authorized by these licenses. Foreign exchange derived from exports must be surrendered. Foreign exchange, other than Sterling Area currencies, derived from invisibles and capital must be surrendered or declared to the exchange control author- ities. Practically all exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Official rates: buying US$2.7839, selling US$2.7507 per New Zealand Pound 1. Exchange Payments Payments to outside the Sterling Area must be effected either in the foreign exchange appropriate to the country of the recipient or by crediting the appropriate sterling account of a nonresident. Imports. Imports from "scheduled" countries 1 require import licenses. Certain imports from other countries, i.e. most "soft currency" countries, require import licenses which are granted up to the value of similar licenses or imports in a previous year. All other imports are free of import license. Exchange is auto- matically granted for authorized imports. Invisibles. Payments abroad require licenses. Foreign ex- change is freely granted for expenses incidental to trade trans- actions, transfers abroad of dividends, and other earnings due to nonresidents. Foreign exchange for other payments to other territories of the Sterling Area is freely granted up to specified limits. Residents traveling to specified countries are freely granted certain amounts in the appropriate currencies. Capital. Transfers of capital require approval. 1 These countries are listed as follows: Albania, Argentina, Bolivia, Bulgaria, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecua- dor, El Salvador, French Somaliland, Germany (Russian Zone), Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iran, Japan, Korea, Liberia, Liechtenstein, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippine Republic, Poland, Rumania, Tangier, Uruguay, United States, U.S.S.R., Venezuela, and Yugoslavia. 216 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND 217 Exchange Receipts Exports. Practically all exports require licenses. The exchange proceeds of all exports to outside the Sterling Area must be re- ceived (1) from an account in New Zealand pounds of a bank domiciled in the country to which the goods were exported, (2) from a sterling account appropriate to the country of destina- tion, or (3) in appropriate foreign exchange. The proceeds of exports to other parts of the Sterling Area must be received from a sterling account or in the exchange of the territory of destination. Foreign exchange receipts from exports must be surrendered. Invisibles. Exchange receipts from invisibles, in other than Sterling Area currencies, must be surrendered or declared to the exchange control authorities. The use of declared funds requires approval. Capital. Investments by persons residing abroad are freely permitted. Exchange receipts from capital, in other than Ster- ling Area currencies, must be surrendered or declared to the ex- change control authorities. The use of declared funds requires approval. Changes during 1951 The number of commodities which require an import license when imported from "soft currency" countries, which at the beginning of the year was nearly 1,000, was reduced by stages so that at the end of the year the list contained only some 260 items. January 11 Switzerland was removed from the list of "scheduled" coun- tries. October 10 Western Germany was removed from the list of "scheduled" countries. December 12 Sulphur, petrolatum, oil, carbon black, asbestos fibre, and rosin coming from any country were exempted from import licensing requirements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL Date of Introduction September 24, 1914; revoked October 18, 1937; reimposed February 9, 1948. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through licenses required for both import and nontrade payments. Exchange is granted for author- ized imports. Foreign exchange must be surrendered. All ex- ports require licenses. Exchange Rates Official rates: buying Escudos 28.60, selling Escudos 28.95 per US$1. Exchange Control Territory Portugal and its overseas territories constitute a single ex- change control territory, "the Portuguese Monetary Area". Cur- rent payments between various territories of the Portuguese Monetary Area are effected through controlled accounts. Exchange Payments Imports. Some imports from EPU countries and their over- seas territories l and most imports from all other countries re- quire advance registration equivalent to import licensing. Most goods of a value less than Esc 2,500 may be imported without such a license from EPU countries and their associated territories. Exchange is automatically granted for authorized imports. Pay- ments to countries with which Portugal has payments agreements must be effected through appropriate accounts. Invisibles. All payments in foreign exchange or to nonresident accounts in excess of Esc 2,500 require licenses. For lesser amounts, such payments are made if the applicant undertakes to produce documentary evidence of the obligation, should proof be required later. Payments to countries with which Portugal has payments agreements are freely permitted through appropri- ate accounts, if they are within the terms of the related agree- ment. 1 These countries are listed as follows: Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Greece, Iceland, Italy, Ireland, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, Trieste, Turkey, United Kingdom, Western Germany, and their overseas territories, 218 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL 219 Capital. Transfers of capital to countries with which Portugal has payments agreements are freely permitted through appro- priate accounts, if they are within the terms of the related agree- ment. Other transfers of capital require approval. Exchange Receipts Exports. Exports require advance registration equivalent to export licensing, mainly in order to insure that the exchange proceeds are surrendered. Invisibles. Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered. Persons may bring in any amount in escudos and foreign currency. Capital. Exchange receipts from capital must be surrendered. Changes during 1951 February Additional items were included in the list of those free from quantitative restrictions when imported from EPU countries and their overseas territories. May Goods of a value less than Esc 2,500 could, until July 31, 1951, be imported without an import license from EPU countries and their overseas territories. June Certain goods were added to the list of those freed from quantitative restrictions when imported from EPU countries and their overseas territories. August 4 A few goods were excluded from the provision that goods of a value less than Esc 2,500 could be imported without an import license from EPU countries and their overseas territories. For other items, this provision was extended to September 30, 1951. August Export licenses for olive oil were suspended. September 30 A few additional items were excluded from the provision that goods of a value less than Esc 2,500 could be imported without an import license, but for other items this provision was extended to December 31, 1951. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN Date of Introduction November 30, 1936. Last ma jor revision November 1, 1951. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are exercised through licenses required for im- ports and nontrade payments and through a multiple currency practice resulting from the use of three official rates and of a "free official market" for certain percentages of specified groups of imports. A multiple currency practice also operates on the buying side through the use of the "free official market" for certain percentages of the exchange proceeds from specified groups of exports. Foreign exchange must be surrendered. All exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Basic official rates: buying Pesetas 10.95, selling Pesetas 11.22 per US$1. The use of these rates is limited to government trans- actions. For other purposes, there is an official buying rate Pts 21.90 per US$1 and three official selling rates, Pts 16.425, Pts 21.90, and Pts 25.00 per US$1. The combination of certain percentages at one of these rates with the balance at a "free official market" rate, currently at Pts 39.65 per US$1, produces other effective rates (see Table of Exchange Rates below). Exchange Control Territory Spain and its overseas territories constitute a single exchange control territory, the "Spanish Monetary Area." Exchange Payments Imports. All imports require import and exchange licenses which are issued in combined form. Foreign exchange is granted for authorized imports but, in some cases, the granting of ex- change is delayed indefinitely and, in some others, the licenses specify that exchange will be granted only in monthly install- ments. Foreign firms operating in Spain may, subject to license, import for their own use capital goods and raw materials pur- chased with their own exchange abroad. Imports paid for with 220 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN 221 specified currencies x are classified into several groups to which different effective rates apply. Invisibles. Payments abroad require licenses. Payments in the specified currencies for foreign travel, payments abroad in re- spect to income on foreign capital, family remittances, certain transportation expenses, repairs to Spanish property abroad, fees due to brokers and representatives abroad, and insurance premiums are effected at the "free official market" rate. Persons traveling abroad may take with them a maximum of Pts 2,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. Capital. Transfers of capital require approval, and are effected at the "free official market" rate in the case of specified cur- rencies. Exchange Receipts Exports. All exports require licenses mainly for the purpose of insuring the surrender of exchange receipts in the appropriate currency. Exchange proceeds of some exports must be entirely surrendered at specified rates. For other exports, a certain per- centage must be surrendered at prescribed fixed rates and the balance sold in the "free official market" to authorized buyers. Exports paid for in specified currencies 2 are classified into five groups, for each of which the percentage to be surrendered at the official buying rate of Pts 21.90 per US$1 is specified. Invisibles. Exchange receipts in the specified currencies de- rived from tourism in Spain, income from labor abroad, family remittances, certain transportation, and insurance earnings and similar income items must be sold at the "free official market" rate. Persons may bring in a maximum of Pts 10,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. Capital. The receipt of capital from abroad requires approval. Capital from abroad, including repatriated Spanish capital and funds invested by Spanish subjects living abroad, is surrendered at the "free official market" rate. 1 These currencies are listed as follows: Belgian francs, Danish kroner, French francs, Mexican pesos, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, pounds sterling, and U. S. dollars. 2 These currencies are listed as follows: Belgian francs, Danish kroner, French francs, Netherlands guilders, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 222 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1951) (pesetas per U.S. dollar) Buying 10.95 ( O f f i c i al Basic Rate) 21.90 23.673 (90% at the P ts 21.90 rate, 10% at the "Free O f f i c i al M a r k e t" Rate) Exports not listed in any special group. Exports in Group 1: al- monds, chestnuts, cocoa, cork (semimanufactur- ed products), fresh fish, fru it trees, livestock, olives, etc. 27.225 (70% at the P ts 21.90 rate, 30% at the "Free O f f i c i al M a r k e t" Rate) Exports in Group 2: al- mond oil, apricots, cher- ries, cider, cork manu- factures, figs, dried fish, gypsum, hazel nuts, peaches, pears, plums, potash, vegetables, etc. 30.775 (50% at the P ts 21.90 rate, 50% at t he "F ree O f f i c i al M a r k e t" Rate) Exports in Group 3: bananas, c h e m i c a l s, clays and silicates, cork, tanned hides, grapes, lemons, essential oils, onions, oranges, paper, peanuts, tomatoes, etc. Setting G o v e r n m e nt pay- ments, including im- ports of rationed foods tuffs. Imports in Group A: coal, coke, and pitch. 11.22 ( O f f i c i al Basic Rate) 16.425 21.90 25.00 25.715 (60% at the Pts 16.425 rate, 40% at the "Free O f f i c i al M a r k e t" Rate) Imports in Group E: liquid fuels and to- bacco. Imports in Group B: aluminum scrap, cop- per, copper alloys, creosote, ores (me- tallic), phosphates, metal scrap, seeds, sleepers, tinplate, etc. 28.992 (60% at the P ts 21 .90 rate, 40% at t he "F r ee O f f i c i al M a r k e t" Rate) Imports in Group C: a l u m i n u m, chrom- ium, cobalt, ferro- alloys, fertilizers, fi- bers (ha rd ), fishing lines, threads, and nets, i n s e c t i c i d e s, jute, etc. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN 223 Table of Exchange Rates (continued) (pesetas per U.S. dollar) Buying 32.55 (40% at the P ts 21.90 rate, 60% at t he "F r ee O f f i c i al M a r k e t" Rate) Selling Imports in Group D: raw materials for abrasives, asbestos, asphalt, hemp, lu- bricants, railway ma- terials. Raw mate- rials for refractories and for rubber pro- cessing, tar, vaseline, etc. 39.65 ("Free Offi- c ial M a r- ket" Rate) All other imports. Authorized invisibles and capital. Exports in Group 5: books, hand-made rugs, wolfram, etc. Exports in Group 4: be- rets, ceramics and glass, hats, shoes and leather articles, perfumes, vine- gar, wine, etc. 34.311 (30% at the P ts 21.90 rate, 70% at the "F r ee O f f i c i al M a r k e t" Rate) 37.875 (10% at the P ts 21.90 rate, 90% at at the "Free O f f i c i al M a r k e t" Rate) 39.63 ("Free Offi- c i al M a r- ket" Rate) Note: The above rates apply to ex- change receipts in specified curren- cies. Receipts in other currencies are surrendered entirely at the Pts 21.90 rate. Invisibles. Capital. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 224 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Changes during 1951 July 26 Special exchange rates for certain exports were announced. September The export of strategic materials to certain countries includ- ing China and North Korea was banned. November 1 Revised regulations concerning the operation of the free ex- change market established July 21, 1950 became effective. Only the following currencies could be negotiated in this market: a) Checks, transfers and remittance of fund s: U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, French francs, Moroccan francs, free Swiss francs, free escudos; b) Notes: U.S. dollars, French francs, Moroccan francs, Swiss francs, Portuguese escudos. For other currencies, the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute would establish rates based on their quotations in the free market. Authorized banks were permitted to deal in certain currencies in the free market in respect of authorized transactions. The right to retain a portion of export proceeds to use for imports was revoked. The holder of an authorization to pur- chase foreign exchange must do so within 10 days. An export rate of Pts 21.90 per US$1 was established, and various export commodities were listed in five groups with a designated per- centage of the foreign exchange to be sold in the free market. Foreign exchange in excess of the specified percentages and all exchange for products not listed were to be made available to the Foreign Exchange Institute at the Pts 21.90 rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND Background of Exchange Controls In Switzerland, certain capital movements to and from the country are subject to authorization. Control measures are ap- plied to current payments as far as necessary for the working of bilateral agreements. The first of such agreements was concluded in 1931. At present, such agreements are in force with 25 coun- tries or monetary areas. Nature of Exchange Control System Exchange control is exercised over certain payments to and from countries with which Switzerland has payments or similar agreements. Specified exports require licenses. Exchange Rates The Swiss National Bank is authorized to maintain the value of the Swiss Franc between gold limits corresponding to Sw fr 4.13-4.68 per US$1. Currently, the Swiss National Bank maintains the Swiss franc rate in a free market between the limits of buying Sw fr 4.285, selling Sw fr 4.375 per US$1. For the currencies of most of the countries with which Switzerland has payments agreements, fixed official rates are applied. In a few cases variable rates are in use; these rates are based on the currency systems of the respective countries. Exchange Control Territory The Principality of Liechtenstein is included in the exchange control territory of Switzerland. Exchange Payments Imports. Imports from countries with which Switzerland has payments or clearing agreements and certain imports from EPU countries and their associated territories l require import licenses. Exchange is automatically granted at fixed or agreed rates for authorized imports from those countries but payment must be effected through an appropriate account. Payments for imports from countries with which Switzerland has no payments agree- ment can be freely effected. 1 These countries are listed as follows: Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, Trieste, Turkey, Western Germany, their overseas territories, and all ter- ritories of the Sterling Area. 225 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 226 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Invisibles. Payments to countries with which Switzerland has payments agreements are permitted through an appropriate ac- count, if they are within the terms of the related agreement. Otherwise approval is required. Payments to countries with which Switzerland has no payments agreement can be freely effected. Capital. Transfers of capital to countries with which Switzer- land has payments agreements are permitted through an ap- propriate account, if they are within the terms of the related agreement. Transfers of capital exceeding Sw fr 500,000 require a license. Transfers to countries with which Switzerland has no payments agreement can be freely effected. Exchange Receipts Exports. Some exports require licenses granted up to the limits of global quotas. The export of certain other commodities, particularly to EPU countries, is regulated by arrangements made through the appropriate trade organization. Exchange proceeds of exports to countries with which Switzerland has pay- ments agreements are received through appropriate accounts and the exchange surrendered. Exchange receipts from countries with which Switzerland has no payments agreement are freely disposable. Invisibles. Receipts from invisibles from countries with which Switzerland has payments agreements are received through pre- scribed accounts and the exchange surrendered. Exchange re- ceipts from invisibles from countries with which Switzerland has no payments agreement are freely disposable. Capital. Receipts of capital from countries with which Switzer- land has payments agreements are received through prescribed accounts and require a license. Exchange receipts of capital from countries with which Switzerland has no payments agreement are freely disposable. Banknotes Foreign and domestic banknotes may be freely imported and exported. Foreign banknotes are bought and sold in a free market. Payments and Clearing Agreements Switzerland has payments or clearing agreements or similar arrangements with the following countries and monetary areas: Austria, Argentina, Belgian Monetary Area, Bulgaria, Czecho- slovakia, Denmark, Eastern Germany, Egypt, Finland, French Franc Area, Greece, Hungary, Iran, Italy, Netherlands Montetary Area, Norway, Poland, Portuguese Monetary Area, Rumania, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND 227 Spanish Monetary Area, Sterling Area, Sweden, Turkey, West- ern Germany, and Yugoslavia. Changes during 1951 January Import controls were placed on certain strategic materials. March Export controls were extended to timber products, building iron, and some chemicals. April 30 The import of fresh f ru it and fresh vegetables became subject to import license. May 15 The requirement of an import license for certain raw mate- rials was canceled. June 18 A decree was published which authorized the Department of Economics to determine what goods could be exported only under special license and to specify the goods whose export requires the production of a certificate of Swiss origin. A number of commodities were added to the list of those subject to export license. July Additional commodities (cocoa beans, cocoa butter, cocoa powder, chocolate paste, and chocolate) became subject to import license. November 1 A new payments agreement concluded with Belgium made pay- ments between Switzerland and the Belgian Monetary Area sub- ject to regulation. November 6 Advance payments in respect of exports to countries with which Switzerland has payments agreements required the visa of the Swiss Compensation Office. November 26 Travelers' letters of credit could not be honored except by au- thorized banks and agents authorized by the Swiss Compensation Office. November 29 Exports to EPU countries were curtailed. Each industrial as- sociation was notified of the maximum value that its exports could reach in any month and would allocate quotas among its members. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 