 T W E N T I E TH A N N U AL R E P O RT ON E X C H A N GE R E S T R I C T I O NS 1 9 69 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IN T ERNA T IONAL MONETARY FUND TW E N T I E TH A N N U AL R E P O RT ON E X C H A N GE R E S T R I C T I O NS 1969 Washington, D. C. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letter of Transmittal to Members and Governors of the Fund May 6, 1969 Dear Sir: I have the honor to transmit to you a copy of the International Monetary Fund's Twentieth Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions, which has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article XIV, Section 4, of the Articles of Agreement. On behalf of the Executive Board, I should like to express our appreciation of the cooperation of the countries in the preparation of the second part of the Report. Sincerely yours, /s/ P IERRE -PAUL SCHWEITZER Chairman of the Executive Board and Managing Director ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution C O N T E N TS Page P A RT I 1 in Restrictive I. Introduction II. M a in Developments Practices 2 Trade and Payments Restrictions . . .. 2 Multiple Currency Practices 3 Import Surcharges, Advance Deposits, and Export Subsidies 3 Bilateral Payments Arrangements . . .. 4 Measures Affecting Capital 4 Go ld 6 III. Regional Arrangements P A RT II Explanatory Note to Country Surveys Country Surveys Afghanistan Algeria Argentina Australia Austria Belgium-Luxembourg Bo l iv ia Botswana B raz il Burma Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Central African Republic Ceylon Chad Chile China, Republic of Colombia Congo (Brazzaville) Congo, Democratic Republic of Costa R i ca Cyprus Dahomey Denmark Dominican Republic Ecuador El Salvador Ethiopia Finland France 6 11 15 18 23 27 30 35 40 42 43 53 55 57 62 68 71 77 84 90 96 101 107 113 116 119 122 128 133 136 140 143 145 150 v ii Gabon The Gambia Germany, Federal Republic of Ghana Greece Guatemala Guinea Guyana Ha i ti Honduras Hong Kong Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Ivory Coast Jamaica Japan Jordan Kenya Korea Kuwait Laos Lebanon Lesotho Liberia L ibya Malagasy Republic Ma lawi Malaysia M a li Ma l ta Mauritania Mauritius Mexico Morocco Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Norway Pakistan Page 165 171 173 178 184 190 194 197 200 201 203 206 209 218 224 229 233 236 242 248 254 258 263 266 271 277 280 283 285 286 287 291 297 301 306 311 314 320 323 325 330 333 339 341 346 348 354 358 361 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Panama Paraguay Peru Philippines Portugal Rwanda Saudi Arabia Senegal Sierra Leone Singapore Somalia South Africa Spain Sudan Surinam Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic CONTENTS Page 368 369 372 375 382 387 389 390 395 398 403 407 414 419 423 425 426 431 434 Tanzania Thailand Togo Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Uganda United Arab Republic United Kingdom United States Upper Volta Uruguay Venezuela Viet-Nam Yugoslavia Zambia Analytical Appendix Page 439 444 448 454 459 464 472 477 483 495 504 510 514 516 522 529 534 vm ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT I ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution I. Introduction The period under review was characterized by an unusually rapid increase in world trade and stresses on the international payments system. After a downturn in the rate of expansion of world trade in 1967, there was a sharp rise in the rate of growth in 1968. The pressures on the payments system which had been evidenced during 1967 increased during 1968. The devaluation of sterling in November 1967, along with a number of other currencies, had raised doubts about the durability of exchange relationships. The slow rate of prog- ress of the United States and the United Kingdom in programs of internal adjustment in order to strengthen their balance of payments reinforced this uncertainty. One effect of these developments has been large speculative capital movements. These led, in the first instance, to heavy losses of official gold stocks as a result of intervention in gold markets and, in March 1968, to the termina- tion of the gold pool arrangements under which official gold reserves had been made available to meet demand in the markets for nonmonetary pur- poses. Since then a two-tier price system has been in operation with an official price based on US$35 per fine ounce for dealings among monetary authorities, and a free market price for other trans- actions. Although the free market price of gold has ranged from US$37 to US$44 per ounce, the main focus for speculative activity since March 1968 has been in foreign exchange markets. In these cir- cumstances the trend toward a strengthening of capital controls has received fur ther impetus; the United States and the United Kingdom each main- tained their system of capital controls and, during the period under review, France imposed controls on outward capital movements; in Canada volun- tary guidelines were established for certain capital outflows. In April 1969, however, the United States relaxed its controls somewhat. The deutsche mark was the currency which particularly attracted speculative funds and, in November 1968, Ger- many introduced controls to discourage this type of capital inflow. Having served their immediate purpose, these measures were rescinded early in 1969. A number of other countries took steps to regulate movements of banking funds and some subjected certain types of foreign investment to approval procedures. There was less emphasis on restrictions on cur- rent transactions, the main reliance being placed on capital controls in the efforts of the major trad- ing countries to restore their balance of payments position. The area in which certain countries felt obliged to exercise control over current payments was the provision of exchange for travel expendi- ture, partly to prevent evasion of the capital con- trols. The United Kingdom's restrictions remained in effect and France also imposed a limitation on the amount of foreign exchange that might be used for this purpose, as did a number of developing countries. The use of travel taxes continued to grow. The stress to which the international monetary system was subjected precluded any possibility of a resumption of the trend toward liberalization of current payments. In most cases, however, where balance of payments problems arose, the measures taken with regard to current transactions were gen- erally in the field of trade, rather than on the mak- ing of payments. There was a marked increase in the use of import surcharges and deposits in con- nection with imports, and export subsidies were applied in many forms. In March 1969 Germany announced that additional import opportunities were to be created by quota increases for industrial goods, including the products of Eastern Euro- pean countries, and volume increases under agree- ments on voluntary restraint of exports to Ger- many. In certain countries there was progress toward more realistic exchange rates and better-conceived financial policies. Three countries—Argentina (May 14), Singapore (November 9 ), and Malay- sia (November 11) —assumed the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4. Out of a total membership of 111, 34 Fund members, which in 1968 accounted for about three fourths of world trade, have assumed these obligations. This Report, and in particular the following sections, covers not only developments in the field of exchange restrictions, but also other measures and intergovernmental arrangements that may have direct balance of payments implications. 1 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS II. Main Developments in Restrictive Practices Trade and Payments Restrictions Several countries made important changes in their exchange and trade systems during the year tending toward liberalization of their restrictions. In May, Ceylon introduced an exchange certificate market. At the same time the severe quantitative restrictions on imports of raw materials and spare parts, which were to be settled through the new exchange market, were relaxed. In Colombia, import licensing requirements were withdrawn from a number of essential products. South Africa fur ther eased import restrictions following a sharp increase in reserves during 1968. There were, in addition, a number of other countries that made modest progress toward more liberal import pol- icies either by reducing quantitative restrictions or by applying more liberal licensing policies, e.g., Finland, Ghana, Iraq, Israel, and Japan. Most "Operations Account" countries in the French Franc Area removed most or all of their restric- tions on imports from countries of the European Economic Community (EEC). However, more restrictive import policies were adopted in other countries, which generally have a more important share in world trade. In July 1968, France imposed quotas on a temporary basis on the import of automobiles and industrial vehicles, textiles, steel, and household electrical appliances. These measures were later revoked on schedule, this process being completed early in 1969. The United Kingdom imposed advance deposits on imports in November 1968. France and Germany adjusted their value-added taxes to discourage or encourage imports, respectively; action was also taken by Germany to restrain exports. The pos- sibility that the United States might impose quan- titative restrictions caused a number of countries, including Australia, New Zealand, and Nicaragua, to limit exports of meat to that country and led Japanese and EEC steel producers to practice voluntary restraint with respect to exports of steel. Nigeria subjected a wide range of "nonessential" imports, which previously had been under open general license, to specific licensing in order to strengthen the country's external reserve position. The countries of the Central American Common Market agreed in principle to impose a surcharge on imports from outside the Market: the relative 2 protocols, however, have not yet been ratified by all signatories and therefore the surcharge has not been implemented in all countries. In June, Guate- mala introduced import restrictions in order to prevent speculative importing pending the applica- tion of this import surcharge; these restrictions were removed, following the introduction of the surcharge by Guatemala in November. Other countries to move toward somewhat tighter restric- tions on imports included Bolivia, the Dominican Republic, Iran, Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Ven- ezuela, and Yugoslavia. Brazil raised import duties on a number of consumer goods but did not restore quantitative restrictions. Several countries imposed or raised import surcharges (see below). A num- ber of countries again took measures to restrict imports of textiles from less developed countries; the same objective was sought in other cases by agreements on voluntary export restrictions. No clear pattern is apparent in the changes made during the year in restrictions on payments. Exchange control measures in France were closely related to the severe speculative pressures to which the f ranc was subjected. Tighter controls on the sale of foreign exchange for travel abroad were applied by Ethiopia, Kenya, the Philippines, Tan- zania, Uganda, and Zambia. Early in 1969, Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda all adopted a set of mea- sures involving a limitation on foreign exchange allowances for emigration, travel, and certain per- sonal remittances. Zambia introduced restrictions on the transfer of profits and dividends. Toward the end of 1968 the United Kingdom prohibited banks in the United Kingdom from providing sterling finance for trade between non-Sterling Area countries. In September 1968, the United Kingdom entered into agreements with most other Sterling Area countries. The United Kingdom guaranteed to maintain the dollar value of that part of each Sterling Area country's official sterling reserves which exceeded 10 per cent of its total reserves, while the partner countries undertook to maintain not less than an agreed minimum proportion of their total reserves in sterling. Moves toward more liberal policies in regard to current payments affected mainly profit and div- idend remittances and travel expenditure. Ceylon lifted the moratorium on remittances of current profits; in addition, provision was made for accu- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MA IN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES mulated profits and dividends to be remitted gradually over a period of time. Colombia and Ghana also adopted more liberal policies in respect of remittance of profits. Japan lifted the restric- tions on the provision of foreign exchange for tourism. Included among the other countries announcing some measures of liberalization in the field of invisibles were Finland, Israel, and Morocco. Pursuant to a second Resolution of the United Nations Security Council calling for mandatory sanctions on Rhodesia many countries took addi- tional action which often entailed restrictions on trade, payments, capital transfers, and investment operations relating to Rhodesia. Multiple Currency Practices Flexible exchange rate policies are employed in a number of member countries. They include Bra- zil, Chile, Colombia, Indonesia, Korea, and Uru- guay. The Fund continues to view rates respond- ing to market forces as a step toward realistic par values. In the past year there has been no major change in the number of countries applying multi- ple currency practices. Some simplification in existing multiple currency systems has taken place in Brazil, Colombia, and Indonesia. Brazil abol- ished the special rate applicable to petroleum imports; Colombia, by abolishing the capital exchange market, unified the two principal exchange markets, though some important cate- gories of transactions still take place at different effective rates. Indonesia reduced the number of effective rates by eliminating the special BE rate.1 In a few other countries, the trend was different. Neither Costa Rica nor j^iu was able to eliminate the dual exchange market system; in addition, Peru introduced an exchange tax on most import payments which gave rise to a fu r th er multiple currency practice. Ceylon's^ exchange certificate scheme resulted in a dual rate structure; Afghan- istan introduced additional exchange subsidies on exports, which had the effect of increasing the number of effective export rates; and Jyrke^ introduced a multiple rate for foreign exchange sold by nonresidents. During the course of the year Pakistan varied the operation of the system in such a way as to increase reliance on bonus import rates, R e l a t i ng to program-aid fund s. also for the public sector. In Viet-Nam the rate s truc ture proliferated as a result of equalization taxes (taxes de perequation) on imports and exchange subsidies on minor exports, and the spread between the official rate and other effective rates widened. In a number of countries, manda- tory margin deposits on import letters of credit were raised. It is apparent that the use of various restraints on travel has increased. Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Ghana, Guatemala, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Turkey, the United Arab Republic, and Viet-Nam maintained restrictions on travel abroad by subjecting tourism, and sometimes other travel also, to taxes on travel, or by requiring prior deposits on the provi- sion of exchange for travel purposes. In a few cases, these measures gave rise to effective selling rates that constituted multiple currency practices. The spreads between official market rates and capital market rates widened in the United King- dom and the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Un ion; those in the United Kingdom are appli- cable to countries outside the Sterling Area only. Import Surcharges, A dvance Deposits, and Export Subsidies The number of countries employing import sur- charges and advance import deposits has con- tinued to increase. During the period under review, as mentioned above, surcharges of 30 per cent of the applicable duties were agreed in principle among the countries of the Central American Common Market on all imports originating outside the Market. Import surcharges on a large number of goods were raised in Indonesia, in some cases to 300 per cent and 400 per cent, while a sur- charge of 10 per cent of the applicable customs duties was introduced by Peru. In addition, Turkey^gain raised the rate of the stamp du ty on imports, and the Sudan and China raised the rates of existing surcharges. Malawi introduced an 8% per cent un iform surcharge; Yugoslavia imposed additional taxes on most imports, and Guyana introduced customs surcharges. A number of countries introduced import deposits or raised the rates applied. In November, the Un i ted Kingdom imposed deposits of 50 per cent of the value of imports payable at the time of en try into customs. The deposits, repayable after 3 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 180 days, applied to most imports other than basic foods, feeding s tuffs, fuels, certain categories of goods imported mainly from developing coun- tries, and goods for re-export or those used in the production or manufacture of exports. The scheme, which did not involve exchange restric- tions, was to be maintained for a maximum of 12 months. Ethiopia introduced advance deposits of up to 150 per cent but subsequently lowered the rates. Advance deposit rates were raised in Korea, the Philippines, the Sudan, and Turkey, while the retention period for deposits was prolonged in Greece, and in Colombia the advance deposits payable at the time of purchase of exchange for travel were increased. In Pakistan and El Salvador, however, the deposit requirements were abrogated. The scope of the deposit schemes was narrowed or the applicable rates were decreased in Argentina, Chile, China, Iran, and Viet-Nam. Colombia maintained the system of import deposits, but shifted many commodities to a lower rate of deposit and reduced all deposits on imports financed by the U.S. AID program to 10 per cent of the applicable rate. Indonesia introduced a sys- tem of prepayment of import duties on certain categories of imports and JJcuador raised the rate of advance payment on such duties. Where advance deposit requirements involve exchange restrictions on current payments, grior^Fund approval is required for their introduction by Countries not entitled to maintain or adapt existing restrictions by virtue of Article XIV; where _ a multiple currency practice is involved, prior approval is required both for its introduction and modification, irrespective of whether the country is under Article VIII or Article XIV. This applies also to certain practices not usually referred to as advance deposits, such as mandatory margin requirements on import letters of credit. . . . . . . .. ^ - - - ^ . _ .. A_i _ . __^_ __*- . . _ _ .. ,_, Numerous changes were made in the arrange- ments to encourage exports, mainly involving tax rebates, cash subsidies, interest rate subsidies for export credits, and official export credit insurance. In India_the budget for 1968/69 included an export market development allowance, increased cash assistance for certain exports, tax rebates, etc. The cash subsidies for certain exports were increased in Viet-Nam and Afghanistan. Tax rebates for certain exports of Argentina and Turkey were increased. In the United Kingdom the export rebate arrangements were discontinued. 4 Official export insurance was expanded in many countries, including Greece and Korea, whether by the introduction of new facilities or by the raising of ceilings on existing ones. France increased an interest preference for the rediscount- ing of export bills; on January 1, 1969 the interest preference was reduced. The Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union abolished, for EEC countries, an existing differential of this type. Bilateral Payments Arrangements The period covered by this report has shown a fur ther decrease in bilateralism in payments. At least 7 agreements between member countries were terminated and at the beginning of 1969 substan- tially less than 50 per cent of member countries still maintained bilateral payments agreements. Of the 63 agreements in operation between members, none involved any of the major trading nations. At the end of the period there were 228 agree- ments with nonmembers. Seven member countries maintained agreements only with other members, 29 member countries both with members and non- members, and 14 members only with nonmembers. Of the total of 228 agreements between members and nonmembers, 189 agreements were with Eastern European countries, 17 with mainland China, 12 with other state trading countries in Asia, 7 with Cuba, and one each with Cambodia, Switzerland, and Yemen. In addition, there were, at the beginning of 1969, 12 inoperative agree- ments between members and 6 between members and nonmembers. It is estimated that exports by member countries financed under bilateral pay- ments arrangements have declined to well under 2 per cent of total world exports. Measures Affecting Capital In connection with the reintroduction of exchange controls in France all capital transactions are controlled, except that some capital payments by residents to nonresidents are authorized on a general basis. The new exchange control system is not applicable to French Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), to Monaco, and, except in respect of gold, to the "Operations Account" countries. Outflows of resident-owned capital were made subject to restrictions but not outflows of nonresident-owned capital. Although foreign secu- rities are quoted in France at a premium over their ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MA IN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES price abroad, the system of "security dollars" traded between residents at a premium (devises- titre) has not been re-established. Various mea- sures have been taken to control leads and lags. Commercial banks have been instructed to main- tain their foreign currency positions if negative and to level them if positive. France also imposed restrictions on the outflow of domestic banknotes and prohibited their being credited to nonresident accounts. French banknotes may be freely imported by travelers; their use in France by non- residents is limited to tourist expenditures. In March 1969 the controls over direct investment were reinforced. The "Operations Account" coun- tries generally took measures corresponding to those taken by France. The capital measures in the U.S. balance of payments program, and the exemption granted to Canada were noted in the Nineteenth Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions. During the past year the regulations concerning direct investment were made somewhat more flexible and the maxi- mum exempted amounts were raised. Late in 1968, the controls on direct investment were slightly modified for 1969, and there was a further slight relaxation in April 1969, when the Interest Equalization Tax also was lowered. During the period, developments in the U.S. balance of pay- ments had major repercussions on the Euro-dollar and the Euro-bond markets and interest levels in Europe rose. Canada undertook various steps to ensure that its exemption from the U.S. program did not result in Canada being used as a channel by which the purposes of the U.S. program would be frustrated. Canadian chartered banks were requested not to increase their foreign currency claims on residents of countries other than Canada and the United States unless such claims were accompanied by equal increases in foreign currency liabilities to residents of such countries. Guidelines to the same effect were issued to nonbank financial institu- tions, and Canadian nonfinancial companies were asked to avoid undertaking new investment pro- grams in Western Europe, or increasing their assets there by transferring capital funds, unless an investment was likely to bring unusually large and early benefits to Canada and could not be financed abroad. The United Kingdom's voluntary restraint pro- gram for direct investments in specified Sterling Area countries was maintained in 1968. The restrictions on direct investment outside the Ster- ling Area were relaxed slightly; small amounts of official exchange were made available, mainly for projects promoting exports of U.K. commodities and services. The gradual rise of the investment currency premium to about 50 per cent, however, made borrowing of foreign currency virtually indis- pensable for the financing of direct investment outside the Sterling Area. Early in 1969, the nationalized industries were encouraged to cover part of their domestic capital requirements by bor- rowing outside the Sterling Area. Many countries again took measures to super- vise or restrict the activities of foreign mutual funds, etc. Belgium made public bids by foreign companies or individuals, for the purchase or exchange of shares issued by Belgian companies, subject to prior approval of the Ministry of Finance. The Netherlands took a similar step in respect of shares issued by domestic banks. Cer- tain other countries also endeavored to stifle unde- sirable takeover bids. In 1969 Japan extended the liberalization of inward direct investment by adding new industries to the list of those for which such investment is automatically approved. As regards short-term and medium-term finance there was some relaxation of controls, e.g., in the Netherlands, which ceased to require exchange control approval for all import and export credit. Previously the exemption was applied to credit where the term did not exceed five years. In the developing countries there appears to be a trend toward increasing controls over such flows, mainly to prevent or reduce excessive reliance on sup- pliers' credits. Some important changes took place with respect to banking funds. The measures taken by France have already been mentioned. The United King- dom permitted the issue and negotiation of sterling certificates of deposit. Spain permitted the opening of new nonresident accounts in convertible foreign currencies, which authorized banks could use to participate in foreign money markets. The German authorities in November 1968, in order to ward off speculative capital inflows, introduced an approval requirement for the acceptance by Ger- man financial institutions of virtually all deposits from nonresidents and for the raising of loans or credits abroad. The acceptance of savings deposits 5 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS from nonresident individuals was generally per- mitted within specified limits. Approval for other deposits was granted only exceptionally. There were parallel regulations concerning borrowings, in the form of loans and credits, by financial insti- tutions from nonresidents. The virtual prohibition of interest payments on nonresident accounts was expanded by a prior approval requirement for the payment of interest, with certain exceptions, on newly opened savings accounts of nonresident individuals. In addition, the Bundesbank fixed a 100 per cent minimum reserve requirement on additions to liabilities to nonresidents; the require- ment was subsequently relaxed. With the excep- tion of the reserve requirement, these measures were rescinded late in February 1969. Gold A f ter the termination of the gold pool arrange- ments, many central banks announced that they would not buy or sell official gold on the free market. Except in the Netherlands, however, where the free gold market that had been closed in 1940 was reopened, relatively few changes appear to have taken place in the extent to which member countries allow residents other than indus- trial users to hold or acquire gold. In the United States and the United Kingdom, for example, the holding of gold in any form other than jewelry or for industrial and numismatic purposes continues to be v ir tua l ly prohibited to residents. Indonesia restricted imports, as did France and the "Oper- ations Account" countries. The right of free access of French residents to the Paris free market was retained, however. III. Regional Arrangements Trade arrangements for a common market of the EEC were virtually completed in mid-1968, 18 mon ths ahead of the end of the transitional period provided for in the Treaty of Rome. From July 1, 1968^ the application of tariffs to industrial goods traded among EEC countries was discon- tinued. Also at mid-1968, regulations were adopted completing the common organization of marke ts on the basis of single prices; thereafter, agricultural products subject to free trade within the Commun i ty represented 85 per cent of the members' agricultural ou tpu t. On July 1, 1968, all members began applying the common external ta r i f f, adjusted to give effect to two fifths of the 6 reductions agreed in the Kennedy Round. France joined the other EEC members in taking these important steps on July 1, even though, at the time, in order to deal with its balance of payments diffi- culties, it instituted interim import controls on selected industrial commodities and intensified aid to exports. Thus, France became the first EEC member to invoke the safeguard provisions of the relevant treaties and to consult within the Com- mun i ty concerning balance of payments measures needed temporarily; these procedures were again used when France took special measures to deal with the exchange crisis that arose late in November. Despite difficulties, the members of the EEC in 1968 took a number of steps to consolidate the Common Market. Agreement was reached on uni- form rules of origin and dutiable value, and an an t idump ing code was adopted. Freedom of movement of labor was introduced 14 months earlier than required by the Treaty of Rome. The application of important elements of a common transport policy began in July. A directive was adopted near the end of the year, indicating the action to be taken by the end of 1969 to harmonize tax treatment and thus to move toward complete elimination of internal tax frontiers. All EEC countries, with the Benelux countries acting as a unit, signed long-term agree- ments with India and Pakistan_pn imports of cot- ton textiles. In December regulations, effective at the beginning of 1969, were adopted to establish a common trading policy toward third countries. A common import liberalization list was established covering two thirds of the items listed in the Com- mon Customs Tariff and a uniform procedure was adopted for administration of tariff quotas. For the present, members need not apply this common list in trade with state trading countries except in the case of agricultural products subject to a com- mon market organization. A 10-year program for structural reform of agriculture in the member countries of the EEC is under consideration. During the year, initial preparations were made for negotiations looking to extension of the asso- ciation of the EEC and 18 African and Malagasy states, based on the Yaounde Convention. This was scheduled to expire on May 31, 1969, as were also the association agreements concluded with the East Afr ican Commun i ty and Nigeria, neither ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REGIONAL ARRANGEMENTS of which was ratified. Moroccojuid Tunisia signed agreements with the EEC for partial association in March 1969; Algeria applied for association early in 1968. .^Turkey proposed during 1968 that its association with the EEC should move into its second stage —which would involve establishment of a customs union over a transitional period of at least 12 years. Iceland has applied for membership in EFTA.2 Steps toward implementation of the Latin American Free Trade Association (LAFTA) 3 lagged during 1968, as members were unable to agree on the implementation of major steps scheduled in the Treaty of Montevideo, or of initiatives called for by the American Presidents at Pun ta del Este in April 1967. In particular, as a step toward elimination by the end of 1973 of all barriers to regional trade, a second addition of commodities to the common list was to have been agreed dur ing 1967. The present list covers only 25 per cent of intra-area trade. Progress toward regional integration was made, however, during 1968 in the form of additions by various members to their National Lists (representing concessions to LAFTA pa r tne r s ), and also in the form of negotiation and implementation of complemen- tarity agreements by subgroups of LAFTA coun- tries having a common interest in the development of local production and trade in specific com- modity groups. Other negotiations, carried on actively during the year, were directed to sub- regional trade liberalization for the six countries 4 in the Andean subgroup, and to economic cooper- ation with the countries comprising the Central American Common Market (CACM ) .5 The LAFTA payments system was amended to provide for multilateralization of available credit margins, for optional delay in settlements of clearing bal- ances to three months, and for the charging of interest on debit balances. A linking of the LAFTA payments system with that of Central America was proposed. 2 The present members are Aus t r ia, Denma rk, Nor- way, Por tuga l, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United K ingdom. Finland is l inked to EFTA by the F in land- EFTA Agreemen t. 3 The members are A rgen t ina, Bolivia, Braz i l, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, U ruguay, and Venezue la. 4 Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Ven- ezue la. 5 Costa R ica, El Salvador, Gua tema la, Honduras, and N ica ragua. Moved by balance of payments pressures, mem- bers of the CACM signed the Protocol of San Jose on June 1, 1968; it became effective in most sig- natory countries on November 8, 1968 but has not yet been ratified by all. It provides ( 1) that mem- bers should impose a linear surcharge of 30 per cent (amounting, on the average, to about 8 per cent ad valorem) to the common external duties of CACM (each member, however, for designated essential goods, retains the option not to apply the surcharge) and (2) that members may levy con- sumption taxes up to 10 per cent and 20 per cent, respectively, on goods of any origin classed as nonessential and luxuries. The Monetary Council of the Central American Clearing House approved a un i fo rm system of charges to be made by the member central banks on various types of exchange transactions with the public, and recommended that the reciprocal lines of six- mon th credit be increased from ceilings equiv- alent to US$500,000 (usually not enforced) to US$2,000,000. In 1967, a decision was made to form a Carib- bean trading un i t. On May 1, 1968 four countries formed the Caribbean Free Trade Association ( C A R I F T A ); by August 1,, 1968 virtually,alLCom- monwealth Caribbean countries had joined.6 A regime of free trade among the members of CAR IFTA was established, with effect from May 1, 1968, except that ta r i f fs (not quantitative restric- tions) may be maintained for five (or ten) years for a limited number of goods on a reserved list. The members of CAR IFTA, other than Jamaica, also signed an agreement in 1968 to establish a regional development bank. Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda continued their economic association as the East African Com- mun i ty (EAC ), formalized in the Treaty for East African Cooperation, which became effective December 1, 1967. The members of the EAC also established an East African Development Bank, and provided for the continued joint operation of railroads, airlines, harbors, postal services and telecommunications, collection of income tax, customs, and excise duties, and other services in the territory of the member countries. Applications 6 An t igu a, Barbados, Guyana, and Trinidad and Tobago were founders; Dom in ica, Grenada, St. Kitts- N ev i s -Angu i l l a, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent then joined, fo l lowed immed ia te ly by Jamaica and Montserrat. Br i t- ish Hondu ras contemplates membe rsh ip. 7 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS by Burundi, Ethiopia, Somalia, and Zambia for accession to the EAC were under consideration at the end of the year. An agreement of association of the EAC with the EEC was signed on July 26, 1968 (but was not fu l ly ratified during the yea r ); it was subject to renewal on May 31, 1969. In April 1968, Chad and the Central African Republic withdrew from the Central African Cus- toms and Economic Union (UDEAC) 7 to join with the Democratic Republic of Congo in forming another regional group (see following paragraph). In December, however, the Central African Republic rejoined UDEAC, and Chad offered to renew its cooperation. A treaty to establish the Union of Central African States (UEAC) was signed on April 2, 1968 by Chad, the Central Afr ican Republic, and the Democratic Republic of Congo. This envisaged a customs union and other forms of close eco- nomic cooperation. The intention that UEAC should come into operation on an interim basis on January 1, 1969 was not realized, because the Central Afr ican Republic w i thdrew in December 1968. Four countries (Guinea, Mali, Mauritania, and Senegal) had been meeting since 1962 to discuss their common concerns arising from the fact that each has territory in the Senegal River Valley. They decided in March 1968 to form an Organiza- tion of Senegal River States (OERS), and to undertake a program which would include close economic cooperation, including a multilateral payments system. A group of nine countries 8 decided on April 25, 1968 to proceed toward the creation of a West Afr ican Economic Community; the drafting of a treaty continued during the balance of the year. The African and Malagasy Common Organiza- tion (OCAM) took form in June 1966. It was designed to coordinate development programs and other economic and political activities of its mem- ber states. It also represents members' interests in relation to international agreements, in particular on matters arising in connection with their asso- ciation with the EEC. At a conference in January 1968, members undertook a program to rational- ize their mu tual trade in beef, along the lines of the existing agreement covering their trade in sugar. There have been no major changes in the arrangements for the Regional Cooperation and Development Treaty signed by Iran, Pakistan, and Turkey in April 1967 and described in the Nine- teenth Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions. The ten-year program for the realization (at the end of 1974) of free trade among the participating members of the Arab Common M a r k e t9 was advanced during 1968. Duty-free trade and free- dom from quantitative restrictions were achieved at the end of 1968 for all nonindustrial products. For various specified groups of manufactured products (representing half of all such t rade ), liberalization from all restrictions, and tariff reduc- tions of 100, 75, or 50 per cent, were made effec- tive. Planning was intensified during 1968 with a view to the establishment of an Arab Payments Union during 1969; effor ts to coordinate industrial development continued. 7 The other members of UDEAC are Cameroon, Congo (B razzav i l le ), and Gabon. 8 The Gamb ia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Ma l i, M au r i- tan ia, N iger ia, Senegal, and Upper Volta. 9 Iraq, Jordan, the Syrian Arab Repub l ic, and the Un i ted A rab Republic pa r t ic ipa te, Kuwa it participates de facto, Yemen has subscribed, and the Sudan du r ing 1968 began the process of subscribing to the Agreement for A rab Economic Un i ty. 8 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT II ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Explanatory Note to Country Surveys In Part II, individual surveys of the exchange systems of the member countries of the Fund, including three nonmetropolitan territories, are given. The exchange systems of three other coun- tries which were not members of the Fund at the time this Report was written are also described. In general, the surveys relate to the exchange systems as at the end of 1968. For a few countries the surveys relate to the exchange systems at a later date or include references to significant developments which took place early in 1969. The description of an exchange system is not necessarily confined to those aspects involving exchange restrictions or exchange controls. As in previous Reports, questions of definition and juris- diction have not been raised, and an attempt has been made to describe restrictive systems in their entirety, except for the tar iff structure and, in most cases, direct taxes on exports and imports. Thus, the surveys include references to such fea tures as import licensing, advance deposit requirements, import surcharges, travel taxes, export licensing, and export incentive schemes. Similarly, the sec- tion "Changes during 1968" may include refer- ences to certain developments that have a direct impact on international transactions but are not reflected in the body of the survey, such as major revisions of import ta r i f fs or developments relating to regional cooperation. A standardized framework has been employed in d r a f t ing the surveys: each system is described under similar headings, and each country survey contains a final section that lists chronologically the more significant changes which took place in the restrictive system during 1968 and, for a few countries, the early mon ths of 1969. An indication of the subject matter to be found under these headings is given in the following paragraphs. Under Exchange Rate System, the par value, where one has been agreed with the Fund, and /or the official exchange rates are given, the latter usually in terms of the U.S. dollar, together with a reference to other rates which may be essential to the country's exchange rate system. In the surveys of cer ta in countries with multiple exchange rate systems, fu r ther details are given in the Table of Exchange Rates (see be low ). The rates quoted are those effec t ive on December 31, 1968, unless stated otherwise. Under Exchange Control Territory, the extent of applicability of the exchange control is explained when it covers two or more sovereign or auton- omous territories whose residents have common rights and obligations under the exchange control regulations. Under Administration of Control, some indica- tion is given of the authorities responsible for policy and administration of the controls and of the extent to which their powers are delegated for practical working purposes. Under Prescription of Currency, the require- ments affecting the selection of the currency and method of settlement for transactions with other countries are described. Where a country has concluded payments agreements with other coun- tries or monetary areas, the terms of these agree- ments often lead to prescription of the currency for specified categories of payments to and from the countries concerned. The countries with which bilateral payments agreements are in force are listed either in the text or in a footnote. For a country whose currency has international impor- tance, the prescription of currency arrangements involve the use of its own currency held by non- residents in accounts with authorized banks. Pay- ments to and f rom such nonresident accounts are then regarded as equivalent to settlements in for- eign currency. Under Nonresident Accounts, an indication is given of the manner in which the country regards the accounts in its currency of account holders not regarded as resident in that country, and the facilities and limitations attached to such accounts. Where there is more than one type of nonresident account, the na tu re and operation of the various types are described. Under Imports and Import Payments, import licensing requirements are described briefly, and details are given of the additional requirements imposed on paymen ts for imports and of any advance deposit requirements. The term "open general license," which is used in some countries, indicates arrangements whereby certain imports or other international transactions are exempt from the restrictive application of licensing require- ments, in contrast to an "individual license," which may be either given freely, or restricted in 11 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS its issue, according to administrative decisions. The expression "global quota" is employed in the sense that many countries now use it, to indicate quotas that are not necessarily universal in their applica- tion but instead may apply to a group of coun- tries, e.g., global quotas for imports from coun- tries in the European Economic Community. Under Payments for Invisibles, action in the matter of permitting payments abroad for current transactions in invisibles is described briefly, together with any limitations on the export of foreign and domestic banknotes. For some coun- tries that do not impose limitations on payments for invisibles, this section is combined with the section on Proceeds from Invisibles (see below). Under Exports and Export Proceeds, the appli- cation of export licensing, where this is operative, is indicated, together with a brief outline of the requirements imposed on the proceeds derived from exports. The expression "exchange receipts must be surrendered" is used to indicate that the recipient is required by the regulations to sell his foreign exchange against local currency, usually at the official rate, to the central bank or to a com- mercial bank or exchange dealer authorized for this purpose. In some countries there is a require- ment that the exchange be sold in a free market. Under Proceeds from Invisibles, any conditions governing exchange derived from transactions in invisibles are given, and any limitations on the import of foreign and domestic banknotes are described. Under Capital, a general indication of the spe- cial arrangements or limitations attached to inter- national receipts and payments in respect of capital items is given. Where special arrangements for foreign capital also cover the income thereon, they are dealt with in this section rather than in the sections on Payments for Invisibles and Pro- ceeds from Invisibles. Under Gold, the principal provisions are sum- marized that govern the holding, negotiation, and import and export of gold coins and gold in other forms. In the Table of Exchange Rates, which is pro- vided for certain countries having a multiple cur- rency practice involving more than two rate levels, the exchange rates effective on a specified date are given. For convenience, the data in these tables are in terms of local currency units per U.S. dollar. The tables include effective rates arising from the negotiation of percentages of the total exchange at d ifferent rates, the imposition of exchange taxes, the negotiation of exchange certificates, etc. Under Changes during 1968, the more signifi- cant changes in the country's restrictive system during 1968 are presented in chronological order. Important measures made effective in the early months of 1969 are indicated at the end of certain surveys or in footnotes to the text. 12 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Country Surveys ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0197482 gram of fine gold per Afghani or Af 45.00 = US$1. The Afghan- istan Bank (Da Afghanistan Bank, the central bank) charges commissions ranging from %0 of 1 per cent to % of 1 per cent on exchange transactions. The official buying rate applies to the proceeds of exports of karakul, wool, and cot- ton, and to 30 per cent of the salaries of foreign experts employed by the Government. Exchange subsidies are applied to the official buying rate as follows: Af 3.12 per US$1 for export proceeds from cotton when payment is received under a bilateral payments agreement; Af 10 per US$1 for proceeds in convertible currencies from exports of karakul and wool; and Af 19 per US$1 for pro- ceeds in convertible currencies from exports of cotton. The official selling rate applies to foreign exchange payments by the Government. All other transactions take place at free market rates through either the banks or the bazaar. Subject to possible day-to-day deviations, the Afghanistan Bank maintains its free market rate within Af 2 per US$1 either side of the free market rate quoted in the bazaar. On December 31, 1968, the free market rate of the Afghanistan Bank was Af 72.25 buying, Af 72.75 selling, per US$1, and the free market rate in the bazaar was Af 73.62 buying, Af 74.12 selling, per US$1. The Afghanis- tan Bank from time to time sells in the free mar- ket agreement dollars and agreement sterling resulting largely from loans for consumer goods under certain of Afghanistan's bilateral payments agreements; most of this exchange is purchased by government commercial and industrial enterprises for their imports from the countries concerned. The selling rate for U.S.S.R. agreement dollars was Af 55.50 per US$1 on December 31, 1968, and that for mainland China agreement sterling was Af 176.20 per <£ stg. 1. Administration of Control Foreign exchange is controlled by the Govern- ment through the Afghanistan Bank. The control is facilitated by the existence of relatively large companies, some of them government owned or government controlled, specializing in the export of such commodities as karaku l, cotton, wool, and carpets. However, these companies do not exer- cise a monopoly over the export of such commod- ities. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Afghan- istan has bilateral trade and payments agreements must be made in the foreign currencies specified in the agreements.1 The proceeds from exports of karaku l, wool, and cotton to other countries must be obtained in convertible currencies. There are no other prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports are not subject to license. Imports of a few items (e.g., some drugs, liquor, arms, and ammun i t ion) are prohibited on public policy grounds or for security reasons; in some instances, however, special permission to import these goods may be granted. The importation of certain other goods (e.g., a few textiles, agricultural and food products, and selected nonessential consumer goods) also is prohibited. There are no quantita- tive restrictions on other imports. Some of the bilateral agreements, however, specify quotas for commodities to be traded, and the Government exercises control to ensure that trade conforms with the commitments undertaken in the agree- ments. On the whole, trade with these countries is carried out on a compensation basis and usually both imports and exports are arranged by the same trader; imports against exports of cotton and wool are carried out by the Government or gov- ernment agencies, or the proceeds of exports are allocated for repayment of government loans. Exchange is provided at the official rate for a limited number of imports by the Government. Payments, for imports through the banking system may be made only under letters of credit, against which a local currency deposit of 100 per cent of the value of the imports, calculated at the pre- vailing free market rate, is required upon estab- lishment of the letter of credit. Such deposits, if made at a commercial bank, may be used as col- lateral for loans. The Afghanistan Bank is autho- 1 These countries are Bulgaria, mainland China, Czecho- slovakia, Poland, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. There is also a bilateral payments agreement with India under which trade in certain commodities is settled through a special account ma in ta ined in inconvertible Indian rupees. 15 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN rized to refuse to sell foreign exchange for the importation of a group of consumer goods that are regarded as nonessential. However, exchange for these items may be purchased either from the commercial banks or in the bazaar. Payments for Invisibles Government payments for foreign debt service and other invisibles and for payments to foreign- ers on government contract in Afghanistan are made at the official rate. All other payments are settled at free market rates. Travelers leaving Afghanistan may take out not more than Af 500 in Afghan banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are not subject to license. Exports of a few commodities (e.g., cottonseed, gold, opium, museum pieces) are prohibited. Otherwise, control is exercised only over exports to bilateral agree- ment countries (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above). However, exporters of cotton are required to sell at least 20 per cent of their total exports to countries from which pay- ments will be received in convertible currencies.2 Karakul is not exported to payments agreement countries. Exchange receipts from exports of karakul, wool, and cotton must be surrendered at the offi- cial rate, irrespective of destination. The proceeds of all exports other than karakul, wool, and cot- ton, irrespective of the currency in which they accrue, may be sold at free market rates or be used by the exporter to pay for imports. Export receipts from cotton are subject to a subsidy at the rate of Af 19 per US$1 for con- vertible currency receipts and Af 3.12 per US$1 for exports settled under bilateral payments agree- ments. Convertible currency receipts from wool exports and karakul exports are also paid a sub- sidy at the rate of Af 10 per US$1. Walnuts are subject to an export tax of 9.5 per cent. Proceeds from Invisibles Thirty per cent of the salaries of foreign experts employed by the Government must be converted into afghanis at the official rate, but the remaining 2 This requirement has been temporarily suspended since 1967. 16 70 per cent may be remitted abroad or exchanged at the free market rate. Receipts from foreign embassies, legations, and other foreign official agencies must be surrendered to the Afghanistan Bank at its free market buying rate. All other receipts from invisibles are sold at free market rates through either the banks or the bazaar. Trav- elers entering Afghanistan may bring in Afghan banknotes not exceeding Af 500. Capital Foreign investment in Afghanistan requires prior approval and is administered, as is domestic private investment, by an Investment Committee composed of five cabinet ministers. The Foreign and Domestic Private Investment Law (Febru- ary 10, 1967) provides for a number of benefits, which include (1) income tax exemption for five years, beginning from the date of the first sales of products resulting from the new investment; (2) exemption from import duties on essential imports for five years after approval of the investment; (3) exemption from taxes on dividends for five years after the first distribution of dividends, but not more than eight years after the approval of the investment; (4) exemption from export duties for ten years after the approval of the investment; and (5) mandatory purchases by government agencies and departments of their requirements from enterprises established under the law where such products are substantially competitive with imports in prices and quality. The law also estab- lishes that an investment approved by the Invest- ment Committee shall require no further license to operate in Afghanistan. Principal and interest installments on loans from abroad may be remitted freely to the extent of the legal obligation involved. Profits may be repatriated freely, and capital may be repatriated after five years at an annual rate not exceeding 25 per cent of the total registered capital. All the foregoing transfers are made through the free mar- ket. Joint ventures of foreign and Afghan capital are encouraged, but no specific percentages of domestic participation are prescribed and 100 per cent foreign-owned investments are not precluded by law. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold and silver coins in Afghanistan for numismatic purposes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold or silver in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Exports of gold and exports and imports of silver in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Council of Ministers; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities and industrial users. Commercial imports and exports of gold and silver jewelry and of other articles containing minor quantities of gold or silver do not require a license and may be made freely, provided that settlement takes place through the free market. Customs duties are pay- able on imports and exports of gold and silver in any form, unless the import or export is made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Changes during 1968 January 1. A bilateral payments agreement with Bulgaria went into effect. February 11. The export tax on cotton was eliminated and an exchange subsidy was intro- duced at the rate of Af 19 per US$1 for exports sold for convertible exchange and of Af 3.12 per US$1 for exports settled under bilateral payments AFGHANISTAN agreements. As a result, the effective export rate for cotton was increased from about Af 38 to Af 48 per U.S. dollar for exports to payments agreement countries and from about Af 41 to Af 64 per U.S. dollar for exports to other coun- tries. March 21. An exchange subsidy of Af 10 per US$1 was introduced for export receipts from karakul, raising the effective export rate from Af 45 to Af 55 per US$1. April 1. The requirement that receipts from exports of walnuts be surrendered at the free mar- ket rate was rescinded. May 5. The export tax on wool was eliminated and an exchange subsidy was applied to the con- vertible currency receipts from wool exports at the rate of Af 10 per US$1; as a result, the effec- tive export rate was increased from Af 38 to Af 45 per U.S. dollar for exports to payments agreement countries and from Af 38 to Af 55 for exports to other countries. May 5. The requirement that receipts from exports of linseed and sesame seed to bilateral payments agreement countries be surrendered at the free market rate was abolished. 17 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Algeria has been established with the Fund. The official unit of currency is the Algerian Dinar, which is at par with the French franc, giving the relationship DA 4.93706 = US$1. The Central Bank of Algeria deals at par in French francs and the other French Franc Area currencies. Buying and selling rates for specified currencies of countries outside the French Franc A r e al are fixed by the Central Bank of Algeria on the basis of the rates quoted on the Paris exchange market for these currencies. The exchange rates applicable to "agreement dol- lars" are those for the U.S. dollar in the Paris market. The Central Bank charges on its transac- tions in foreign currencies a commission ranging from 0.2 per mill to 1.5 per mill, depending on the nature of the transaction, and a tax of 6 per cent on the amount of the commission. Authorized banks must clear their foreign currency position with their correspondents in the French Franc Area at the end of each day but they are under certain conditions permitted to hold outside the French Franc Area, for the account of exporters, export proceeds and cover for documentary credits. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank have general jurisdiction over exchange control. The Central Bank of Algeria assists in the formu- lation of the exchange legislation and regulations and is responsible for their execution and for their application by the authorized banks. In addition, three commercial banks and the Postal Adminis- tration have been given authority to carry out some of the detail of exchange control. Import and export licenses for all commodities are issued on the advice of the competent ministry by the Ministry of Commerce and require the visa of the Central Bank. The Office National de Commer- cialisation (ONAGO), the Office Algerien Inter- prof essionnel de Cereales (OA IC ), the Office National de Commercialisation des Produits Viti- vinicoles (ONCV ), the Societe Nationale des 1 These currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 18 Tabacs et Allumettes (SNTA), the Societe Na- tionale d'Edition et de Diffusion (SNED), the Societe Nationale de Siderurgie (SNS), the Service des Alcools, and certain professional associations (groupements professionals) have a monopoly over the import of certain commodities. The Societe Nationale pour la recherche, la production, le transport, la transformation et la commerciali- sation des hydrocarbures (SONATRACH) has a monopoly over imports and domestic sales of crude petroleum. Investment of foreign capital in excess of DA 500,000 in Algeria requires approval by a National Investment Committee in order to obtain the benefits of the Investment Code. Prescription of Currency Algeria is part of the French Franc Area, but the Central Bank of Algeria does not maintain an Operations Account with the French Treasury and Algeria applies exchange controls to transactions with that Area.2 Settlements with other countries in the French Franc Area are generally made in French francs. Settlements with countries with which Algeria has concluded bilateral payments agreements are made through special accounts under the terms of the agreements. Some of these accounts are denominated in Algerian dinars and others in U.S. dollars; under the agreement with Mali, the currencies of the two partner countries are used. Algeria has signed payments agreements with Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Guinea, Hungary, North Korea, Mali, Poland, Rumania, the U.S.S.R., the United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia. Settlements with other countries are usually made through Paris in French francs, and sometimes in the currency of the country concerned. Nonresident Accounts For residents of countries outside the French Franc Area, the regulations pertaining to nonresi- dent accounts are similar to those applied until early 1967 in France; most of these accounts are Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars or Inter- 2 Since February 1967, France has applied to Algeria its controls on foreign investments in France and on French investments abroad. The exchange controls imposed by France on November 25, 1968 in its financial relations with foreign countries are applied also to Algeria. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution nal Nonresident Accounts. For residents of other French Franc Area countries, there are three types of accounts in Algerian dinars: Individual Suspense Accounts, Franc Area Accounts, and Final Departure Accounts. Except as described below, all operations through these accounts are subject to authorization. Individual Suspense Accounts may be opened without authorization and may be credited with payments from any country. Franc Area Accounts may be opened only with prior authorization from the Central Bank of Algeria. They may be credited freely with pro- ceeds from the sale of convertible currencies; with proceeds from the sale of freely disposable funds (other than notes and coins) in the currencies of other countries of the French Franc Area; and with interest on the balances of Franc Area Accounts. The Central Bank may authorize the crediting of other payments. They may be debited freely for any payment in Algeria to a resident of any country in the French Franc Area (including Algeria); for any transfer to the credit of an account of a person residing in a country in the French Franc Area other than Algeria; and for any amount due to the bank with which the account is kept, for interest, commissions, or repayment of capital claims. Transfers between these accounts are free. Final Departure Accounts may be opened, with- out prior authorization, in the name of any person residing in Algeria, but not of Algerian nation- ality, who intends to leave Algeria for another country in the French Franc Area. These accounts may be credited freely with an amount equivalent to the holdings at October 20, 1963 in the account of the person concerned; with proceeds from sales of real estate of the account holder, provided that the sales are made through the intermediary of a notary public; and with any other payments, up to DA 1,000. The Central Bank may authorize the crediting of other payments. These accounts may be debited freely for all payments in Algeria on behalf of the account holder; outward trans- fers require individual approval. The Central Bank of Algeria maintains special accounts for central banks of the countries with which Algeria has concluded payments agree- ments. ALGERIA Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Certain imports are prohibited regardless of origin. All imports from bilateral payments agreement countries require a license. Imports from all other countries of a large number of commodities, corresponding to about one half of total imports, are subject to either quantitative restriction or a special import proce- dure. The Government has the monopoly over the importation of some of these items through its Office National de Commercialisation (ONACO), the Office Algerien Interprofessionnel de Cereales (OAIC), the Office National de Commercialisa- tion des Produits Viti-vinicoles (ONCV), the Societe Nationale des Tabacs et Allumettes (SNTA), the Societe Nationale d'Edition et de Diffusion (SNED), the Service des Alcools, and the Societe Nationale de Siderurgie (SNS), while some of the other items may as a rule be imported only by professional associations (groupement professionnel des produits laitiers or GA IRLAC, groupement professionnel des bois or BOIMEX, groupement professionnel de la chaussure or GIAC, groupement professionnel pour les textiles or G ITEXAL, groupement professionnel des cuirs et peaux or GICP, and groupement professionnel d'achat de I'Industrie textile or GAD IT ). Imports of firearms, ammun i t ion, and explosives require an import license from the Ministry of the Interior ( for civil and military firearms) or the Ministry of National Defense ( for munitions and explo- sives). All other imports from countries with which Algeria does not maintain bilateral pay- ments agreements may be made freely; some lib- eralized imports, however, require the prior visa of one of the import monopolies. Imports that are not liberalized are licensed in accordance with an annual import program. The program comprises quotas for the French Franc Area, each payments agreement country, and the convertibility area, i.e., all other countries com- bined. In addition, there are annual quotas for imports from France of a few specified com- modities. Payments for liberalized imports, unless orig- inating in a payments agreement country, do not require approval by the Central Bank. Liberalized 19 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA imports not exceeding DA 10,000 in value require only the submission of an invoice to the customs when imported from a country with which no payments agreement is in force. Liberalized imports exceeding DA 10,000 and all nonliberal- ized imports must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank, to which the necessary import documents must be presented and through which all payments related to the transaction must be made. All imports for which payment has to be made before the goods reach Algeria must be domiciled with an authorized bank, and, unless the Central Bank approves otherwise, advance payments may not exceed DA 5,000 or 20 per cent of the import value, whichever is smaller. Payments for liberalized or nonliberalized imports may be approved by, and settled through, the Postal Administration up to an import value of DA 5,000. Import licenses require the visa of the Central Bank. Imports made "without payment" (sans paie- ment), i.e., imports which do not involve com- pensation of any kind, from the French Franc Area require an authorization by the Ministry of Finance if their c.i.f. value exceeds DA 500. For goods imported under the import declara- tion procedure or with an import license, importers may, as soon as the import has been registered with an authorized bank, purchase the required foreign exchange from the bank. Unless earlier payment is to be made in accordance with the provisions of the import license or of a commer- cial contract approved by the authorities, payment to the foreign exporter may be made only after the shipping documents have been presented to the bank. The importer may also, after having domiciled the import, open a documentary import credit payable upon presentation of the shipping documents. Imports from the French Franc Area are regu- lated by Notice ZF2 of October 23, 1963, which sets out a procedure similar to the procedure applied to imports from other countries. Goods normally subject to import license and quota restriction may be freely imported in small parcels, provided that the value of the shipments does not exceed DA 60 for each shipment and the same addressee does not receive more than one parcel a day. 20 Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles to all countries require the approval of the Central Bank. How- ever, when supporting documents are presented, approval may be granted by authorized banks, or sometimes by the post office, either freely or up to specified limits for certain payments such as ( 1) those relating to approved trade transactions and maritime contracts, (2) travel expenses, (3) transfers of salaries and wages, and (4) pay- ments relating to government transactions with foreign companies. For other invisibles, the grant- ing of exchange must be authorized by the Central Bank. All insurance must be concluded with Algerian companies. Residents of other French Franc Area countries working in Algeria under the program for tech- nical cooperation may transfer abroad a certain percentage of their net salaries: 50 per cent for single persons or married persons having their families in Algeria; 70 per cent for persons having their families abroad; and 100 per cent for employees who spend their vacations abroad (the transfer being limited to the duration of their absence from Algeria). For other workers from French Franc Area countries who have contracts with employers and hold the necessary employ- ment documents, the amounts that may be trans- ferred are 30 per cent, 50 per cent, and 100 per cent, respectively, for the groups enumerated above. Residents of other countries who are employed in Algeria are permitted to transfer abroad 25, 45, and 100 per cent, respectively. The payments must be transferred once a month on the basis of the remuneration for the previous month. Persons making such transfers of savings are not entitled to allocations for other personal transfers (e.g., for educational purposes). For residents traveling by air or sea to other countries, including the French Franc Area, the foreign exchange allocation is equivalent to DA 700 a person a year (DA 350 for children under 15) and is issued on presentation of a valid passport and travel documents; for travel by means other than air or sea, the allocation is DA 50 a person a year for adults and DA 25 for children under 15. Furthermore, residents traveling by air or sea to a country within the French Franc Area are entitled to an allocation, in a convertible currency of a country of the French Franc Area, equivalent to DA 500 a person a trip, on presentation of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution travel documents; children under 15 are entitled to DA 250. These allocations for the French Franc Area are not applicable to border workers. Foreign exchange for business travel is subject to authorization by the Central Bank of Algeria. Funds in EFAC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below) may be used for business travel. Pilgrims traveling to Saudi Arabia can obtain Saudi Arabian riyals up to the equivalent of DA 1,200 a person;3 the allocation can be taken up in the form of a check by those traveling by air or sea, and in banknotes by those traveling overland. Travelers may take out Algerian dinar banknotes up to DA 50 a person. Nonresident travelers may also re-export any foreign currency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Certain exports, including used equipment and machinery, live- stock, firearms, ammunition, explosives, and cer- tain radio equipment are prohibited regardless of destination. Some exports to the French Franc Area, all exports to countries outside the French Franc Area that are not included in the free export list, and all exports to countries with which Algeria has bilateral payments agreements require licenses. The export of specified products is reserved for certain state trading organizations. With certain exceptions, exports must be domi- ciled with an authorized bank. Prior registration is not required for exports that are made on a firm sale basis, provided that they do not exceed DA 5,000 in value and that they are payable in not more than 90 days. After customs clearance, such exports must be registered, if they were not registered earlier. If the payment period is more than 90 days, the exports may be registered only after authorization is given by the Central Bank. Sales on consignment are expressly subject to authorization by the Central Bank, and registra- tion must always take place prior to customs clearance. The proceeds of exports, including those to the French Franc Area, may be the object of a 90-day credit and must thereafter be collected within 30 days. Foreign exchange proceeds may 3 Increased early in 1969 to DA 1,500 a person. ALGERIA be used to make authorized payments abroad within three months from the date of their receipt. Petroleum companies holding mineral rights must repatriate to Algeria at least between 50 and 75 per cent of the proceeds from their exports of hydrocarbons. Certain percentages of the proceeds from exports may be kept in special EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts. Ex- porters to the French Franc Area may retain 5 per cent of their export proceeds (up to DA 20,000 per export transaction), while those to the con- vertibility area (i.e., all other countries except those with which payments agreements are in force) may retain 12 per cent if they export to the United States or Canada and 8 per cent in all other instances. EFAC accounts are denomi- nated in dinars and are held with the bank at which the export is registered. Certain payments may be made from these accounts without prior approval by the Central Bank. All other export proceeds must be surrendered. Proceeds front Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated and surrendered. There are no restrictions on the import of for- eign banknotes, coins (except gold coins), checks, and letters of credit, but foreigners must declare such holdings when they enter Algeria. Resident travelers may reimport Algerian dinar banknotes up to DA 50 a person. Nonresident travelers are not permitted to bring in Algerian banknotes. Capital Residents are obliged to repatriate and surren- der capital assets (or the sales proceeds thereof) held or acquired outside Algeria. Capital transfers to any destination are subject to individual license; residents are not normally permitted to acquire capital assets outside Algeria. A new Investment Code, superseding that of 1963, was promulgated by Decree-Law No. 66-284 of September 15, 1966. It provides for state guar- antees in respect of foreign investments of more than DA 500,000 in the industrial and tourist sec- tors. The new code provides for a retransfer guar- antee in respect of the sale or liquidation proceeds of invested foreign capital, and establishes that profit remittances on such investments will be per- mitted up to 15 per cent annually of the foreign 21 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA capital originally invested. Tax facilities may also be granted, and investments of more than DA 5 million may be given exclusive rights in a speci- fied geographic area and may be accorded tariff protection. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Algeria for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities and industrial users. Commercial imports of jewelry and of other articles containing gold are severely restricted. Changes during 1968 During the period under review a number of imports in addition to those mentioned below were added to the list of those subject to either quantitative restrictions or a special import proce- dure. January 30. Imports of beef became the monopoly of the Office National de Commercial- isation (ONACO). February 2. Circular No. 56 revoked the pro- visions of Circulars Nos. 49, 50, and 51, which required, with certain exceptions, the prior autho- rization of the Central Bank for payments for liberalized imports regardless of origin. February 2. A new customs tariff was intro- duced. It contained four columns: most-favored- nation tar iff, general ta r i f f, preferential tariff for commodities of French origin, and preferential tariff for commodities originating in other EEC countries. Duties on many consumer goods were increased significantly. March 5. Imports of a number of additional iron and steel products became the monopoly of the Societe Nationale de Siderurgie (SNS). April 10. Goods corresponding to 56 tariff items were added to the list of goods subject to import license and quota restriction. They included wine, soap, paper, tableware, radios, cameras, and vari- ous domestic appliances. 22 April 19. Customs duties were suspended on imports of certain raw materials and chemical and pharmaceutical products; this action terminated the tariff preferences for imports of these goods from France. April 20. Authorized banks were required to transfer the balances they held with French Franc Area correspondents to the account of the Central Bank of Algeria with the Bank of France. There- after, authorized banks were required to settle daily their balances with French Franc Area cor- respondents. May 13. SONATRACH took over the operations of 14 foreign oil companies operating in Algeria. May 20. The Government announced the nationalization of 31 foreign industrial companies. July 16. Circular No. 58 was published, which consolidated the various existing regulations con- cerning import and export of domestic and foreign means of payment. As a result, Circulars Nos. 40, 43, and 47 were canceled. July 22. An economic cooperation agreement was concluded with the U.S.S.R. The U.S.S.R. undertook to buy wine from Algeria from 1969 until 1975; the annual quota for 1969 and 1970 was fixed at 5 million hectoliters each. August 7. A new monopoly, in charge of all wine marketing, the Office National de Commer- cialisation des Produits Viti-vinicoles (ONCV), was created. September 25. An embargo on exports of crude oil by specified foreign companies was imposed. September 26. The embargo on crude oil exports was lifted, with the proviso that the for- eign companies concerned would revise their posted prices before November 1. September 30. A trade agreement was signed with Morocco, by which that country undertook to license certain imports of Algerian oil. October 19. SONATRACH signed a contract with a foreign oil company that provided for the repatriation of 74 per cent of the proceeds from oil exports. November 4. A partial embargo on oil exports was imposed. November 12. The partial embargo on oil exports was lifted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA Exchange Rate System On January 9, 1957, a par value for the Argen- tine Peso was established by Argentina with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. All exchange transactions take place in the exchange marke t, in which the buying and selling rate on December 31, 1968 was M$N 350 per US$1. The Central Bank of Argentina deals with the commercial banks at M$N 350 per US$1, buy- ing and selling. Within the limits of Buenos Aires City, exchange transactions between banks and individuals are subject to a stamp tax of %0 of 1 per cent. Forward exchange transactions may be con- cluded between individuals and authorized banks or among authorized banks at the fixed exchange rate of M$N 350 per US$1, subject to freely agreed premiums or discounts. Forward exchange purchases by the public, however, are restricted to import payments made under a documentary credit, bank collection, or bank guarantee (aval), and require a 40 per cent deposit in local cur- rency for a period of 180 days. Forward con- tracts concluded as part of a swap transaction and forward transactions among authorized banks are exempt from the 40 per cent deposit. The deposit may not be financed by local banks. Forward exchange contracts connected with imports may be extended for a period of up to 180 days from the date of their original ma tu r i ty; those corre- sponding to exports may be extended only once, for a period of 30 days (or, where shipment is unavoidably delayed, for the period of the de lay). Such contracts may be settled through clearing in the exchange market. The Central Bank intervenes in the forward exchange market as a seller at a premium of 6 per cent per annum. Argentina accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment with effect from May 14, 1968. Administration of Control Exchange transactions must be carried out through banks and institutions authorized expressly for this purpose; only those of a purely financial character may be made by exchange houses. Pur- chases of banknotes and of travel exchange by the public may also be made through authorized insti- tutions and exchange agencies. The authority to make virtually all foreign payments has been dele- gated to the authorized institutions. The autho- rized exchange agencies may purchase banknotes and travelers checks only; they may sell these only to authorized institutions. Prescription of Currency Transactions with other countries must be set- tled in convertible currencies. Virtually all pay- ments between Argentina and Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, Paraguay, and Peru are made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Argentina and the central banks concerned, within the framework of the LAFTA mu l t i la teral clearing system. Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may open accounts in pesos and in foreign exchange in the name of any non- resident. Balances on nonresident accounts may be used freely for any purpose, in Argentina or abroad. Transfers between accounts may be effected freely. Imports and Import Payments Imports are generally free of import and exchange licensing; exchange to pay for them may be purchased in the exchange market. Goods imported by official agencies require approval by the Central Bank and the Ministry of Economy if payment is extended over a period of more than 180 days. Imports of some vehicles, tractors, and engines are temporarily prohibited. All imports are subject to a tax of 4 per cent on the freight. Import taxes include the following: a consular fee of ll/2 per cent payable in foreign currency on most import invoices; statistical taxes of 1% per cent or %0 of 1 per cent applicable to all imports; taxes ranging from 4 per cent to 10 per cent on imports of paper products, certain types of timber and timber products, and forest prod- ucts; and taxes ranging from M$N 2 to M$N 20 a kilogram on imports of iron and steel for the Steel Program. Import duties range from 5 per cent to 140 per cent. Many types of machinery, however, are exempt. 23 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA An advance import deposit of 40 per cent of the c. & f. value is required on many goods from all sources except when imported by the public sector or by firms in the Province of Tucuman; goods imported from LAFTA countries are exempt if the goods are included in Argentina's concession lists (including the special lists for Bolivia, Ecuador, Paraguay, and U ruguay ). The deposit is payable in pesos and calculated at the current exchange rate in the exchange market. It must be lodged before any of the following actions can be under taken: opening a letter of credit; withdrawing shipping documents from the inter- mediary bank; purchasing forward exchange; or clearing goods through customs. The deposit is refunded after 180 days, provided that the goods have been cleared through customs. Payments for specified capital goods imported by private firms (w i th the exception mainly of those in lists applicable to LAFTA countries) when valued at over US$10,000 and purchased with foreign or domestic credit, must be made in installments over a period ranging from at least two years to at least five years after the date of shipment, depending on the total value of the goods. Payment in cash at the time of delivery is permitted, however, if the importer uses exclu- sively his own funds. The prior approval of the Central Bank is required when the terms of pay- ment are not in accordance with the prescribed m in imum terms or when the amount payable exceeds the equivalent of US$1 million. There are certain special arrangements relating to imports by automobile manufacturers; nevertheless, pay- ments by the automotive industry may be made without any restrictions. Advance payments for imports other than capital goods are only permit- ted in exceptional circumstances. Payments for Invisibles The banks and institutions authorized to deal in foreign exchange are permitted to sell exchange for all categories of invisibles without limitation or documentary evidence. Travelers may take out any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes and coins, except gold coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are generally free of direct controls but m in imum export prices are established for 24 many agricultural and livestock exports as a basis for the payment of duties and the surrender of export proceeds. Exporters of most traditional commodities are required to repatriate and sell in the exchange market the foreign exchange pro- ceeds of their exports within 10 working days after shipment. Proceeds from nontraditional exports must be surrendered after the due date of payment which is freely negotiated between the exporter and the buyer. The proceeds of exports to Chile (except those of nontraditional exports) must be collected within 90 days of the bill of lading and surrendered within 10 working days a f ter the due date. Some products are subject to export taxes (derechos de exportation) calculated on the basis of the f.o.b. sales value or on the index values fixed by the State Department of Commerce upon the proposal of the Advisory Commission on Export Values, on which the National Grain Board, the National Meat Board, the State Departments of Agriculture, Commerce, and Finance, and the Central Bank are represented. The principal export taxes are ( 1) 15 per cent for frozen and chilled beef, offa l, certain cereals, and oilseeds; (2) 12 per cent for live animals, mutton, and greasy wool; ( 3) 8 per cent for corn, sunflower seed oil and linseed oil, and tobacco; and (4) 6 per cent for wheat. The tax must be paid before shipment of the merchandise or within the follow- ing 30 days when there is a bank aval that guar- antees its payment. All exports are subject to a 2 per cent tax on the freight. Certain other taxes on exports are also levied. These include a 1.5 per cent tax, the proceeds of which are destined for the National Institute for Agricultural Technology, on exports of agricul- tural and livestock products. Surcharges, customs and additional duties, and other charges paid on imports of raw materials or other products incorporated in exported articles are returned to exporters. Exporters of specified nontraditional manufac tured goods receive a tax rebate of 12 per cent of the f.o.b. value as a reim- bursement of internal taxes on the materials used, and a rebate of 10 per cent on income tax. The Central Bank has established a system of financial support for products not traditionally exported, based on the purchase of bills in for- eign currency with terms of up to five years for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution capital goods, up to two and a half years for durable and semidurable goods, and up to one year for other goods. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange derived from invisibles may be used freely. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes and coins. Capital There are no limitations on inward or outward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents. Argentine industrial or commercial firms, how- ever, require the authorization of the Central Bank to enter into swap operations under which loans may be accepted in a convertible currency. Authorized banks may freely export resident- owned and nonresident-owned securities, whether domestic or foreign. Gold Residents may hold gold coins and gold in any other form, in Argentina or abroad. They may sell gold in coins and bars in Argentina to insti- tutions, houses, and agencies authorized to deal in foreign exchange, but the regulations permitting residents to buy gold coins and bars from these firms are in suspense. Imports of gold coins are unrestricted. Imports of gold bars are subject to the exchange control regulations applicable to imports of other commodities. Exports of gold may be carried out by institutions and houses authorized to engage in exchange transactions; they require the prior approval of the Central Bank and the proceeds must be received in con- vertible currencies. Changes during 1968 January 2. Export duties were reduced on additional beef cuts. January 11. The commodities were announced to which the system of tax rebates in accordance with Law No. 17529 and Decree No. 9588 to exporters of nontraditional products would be applied. January 25. The m in imum export prices (ajoros) for wool, wheat, oats, and barley were reduced by about 10 per cent. February 2. Export taxes on certain grains ARGENTINA were reduced. The sales tax on canned olive oil was abolished. February 5. Decree No. 363 established official import prices for certain imports whose invoice prices had been considered unreasonably or unfa ir ly low. February 29. Circular R.C. No. 345 imple- mented Decree No. 9612 of December 29, 1967, by amending certain regulations governing gold. The importation of gold bars was freely permitted, subject to the general provisions governing all imports. Authorized institutions and exchange houses could purchase locally gold coins and gold bars and could export them, subject to prior approval by the Central Bank, against payment in convertible currencies. The relevant sections of Circular C. No. 2331 of November 28, 1955 were revoked. March 1. A reciprocal credit agreement between the Central Bank of Argentina and the Central Bank of Bolivia came into effect. March 11. Circular R.C. No. 348 exempted from the advance deposit requirement a number of chemical and pharmaceutical products and cer- tain raw materials for industrial use. April 2. Circular R.C. No. 349 exempted from the advance deposit requirement a number of products and raw materials for industrial use. May 13. The sales tax on exports of sheep- skins was suspended. May 22. By Resolution No. 212/68 the National Meat Board suspended the system of the sale on consignment of chilled beef to the United Kingdom. Henceforth, such exports had to be made at f.o.b. prices. The Central Bank intro- duced the relevant exchange control measures by Circular R.C. No. 359 (see August 12). May 23. Circular R.C. No. 351 exempted from the advance deposit requirement imports of com- modities to be used in mining operations. May 31. Circular R.C. No. 352 exempted a large number of raw materials, chemicals, and industrial products from the advance deposit requirement. June 3. Circular R.C. No. 353 exempted cer- tain institutions and enterprises from the advance deposit requirements for some or all imports. 25 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA June 21. Circular R.C. No. 354 permitted cash payment for imports of capital goods at the time of delivery of the documents, provided that the payment was made entirely with the importer's own funds. If domestic or foreign credit was used, however, the terms of Circular R.C. No. 328 of June 1967 remained mandatory. Circular R.C. No. 354 did not apply to purchases made by gov- ernmental, provincial, or municipal departments or decentralized agencies. July 3. Circular R.C. No. 357 temporarily exempted from the advance deposit requirement imports of uncarded and uncombed cotton from LAFTA countries. July 17. Circular R.C. No. 358 exempted from the advance deposit requirement temporary imports and duty-free imports by firms established or to be established in the Province of Tucuman. July 19. Decree No. 4241 lowered the export tax on many types of frozen and chilled meat from 18 to 15 per cent, or in some cases to 12 per cent, of the f.o.b. value. August 12. Circular R.C. No. 359 of the Cen- tral Bank required fu ll payment by irrevocable letter of credit for exports of chilled beef to the United Kingdom at the time of shipment. Pre- viously, a provisional payment could be received at the time of shipment, with an adjustment to follow. August 16. Circular R.C. No. 360 ruled that forward exchange operations between the author- ized institutions and their customers could hence- for th be carried out by settlement in the Buenos Aires exchange market, i.e., also when no pre- vious inflow of foreign exchange had taken place. August 16. Circular R.C. No. 361 exempted a number of industrial products and raw materials from the advance deposit requirement. September 6. Circular R.C. No. 363 permitted the terms of payment for specified nontraditional exports to be negotiated freely between exporter and buyer. Previously, the proceeds usually had to be collected within 180 days of loading, and surrendered w i th in 10 working days af ter the due date. September 25. By Decree No. 5883, export taxes on uncarded and uncombed wool were reduced from 18 to 12 per cent. The export tax 26 on washed wool was reduced from 12 to 6 per cent. September 27. The export taxes on butter, cheese, and other dairy products were abolished by Decree No. 6053. October 3. Decree No. 6286 exempted all exports of wool and dry sheepskins from the sales tax of 10 per cent, which had been suspended since July 28, 1967. October 4. The export tax on corn was low- ered from 18 per cent to 8 per cent by Decree No. 6384. October 9. Frozen fish and certain fishery prod- ucts were added to the list of exports for which the exporter may be granted a tax rebate of 12 per cent of the f.o.b. value. Tung oil was deleted from the list. October 17. Circular R.C. No. 365 exempted additional industrial products and raw materials from the advance deposit requirement. October 18. Decree No. 6637 established approval procedures for exports of cattle on the hoof to LAFTA countries and to other countries. October 22. Imports of iron and steel became subject to a payment of M$N 2, M$N 4, M$N 5, or M$N 20 a kilogram. October 28. The export tax on wheat was reduced from 18 to 6 per cent and that on other fine grains to 8 per cent by Decree No. 6812. October 30. Decree No. 6819 abolished the export tax of 12 per cent on wheat flour. November 18. Decree No. 7168 reduced the export taxes on certain sheepskins to 12 per cent. November 27. Circular R.C. No. 368 added meat extract, unworked and semiworked silver and silver alloys, zinc ingots, and certain other commodities to the list of nontraditional exports for which exporters may freely agree their pay- ment terms. November 27. Circular R.C. No. 367 of the Central Bank ruled that proceeds from exports of scoured or carbonized wool could be surrendered within 120 days after shipment. November 29. Decree No. 7533 reduced the export tax on various types of cotton and cotton fiber to 6 per cent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA ' Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.995310 gram of fine gold per Australian Dollar or $A 1 = US$1.12. Offi- cial rates are fixed for spot transactions in sterling: $A 2.1429 buying, and $A 2.1514 selling, per <£ stg. 1. The rates for spot transactions in other currencies quoted by the authorized banks are based on the closing buying and selling rates of the previous day in London and New York. The rate for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1968 was US$1.1138 buying, and US$1.1072 selling, p e r $A 1. Australia accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as from July 1, 1965. Administration of Control The Reserve Bank of Australia administers the exchange control on behalf of the Commonwealth Treasurer, but considerable discretionary powers are delegated to the trading banks authorized to handle foreign exchange transactions. Import and export licensing is administered by the Depart- ment of Trade and Industry and the Department of Customs and Excise. Prescription of Currency Australia is a member of the Sterling Area, and settlements between residents of Australia and residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made in sterling, in another Sterling Area cur- rency, or in Australian currency through the account of a bank domiciled in any other country in the Sterling Area with a bank in Australia. Pay- ments for imports from countries outside the Ster- ling Area may be made by crediting sterling to an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Aus- tralian currency through the account of a bank in the country or area of origin of the goods with a bank in Australia, or in any non-Sterling Area currency. Proceeds from exports to countries out- side the Sterling Area may be accepted in sterling from an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Australian currency from an appropriate non- resident account, or in any non-Sterling Area cur- rency which is freely exchangeable for External Account sterling. Nonresident Accounts All credits to the accounts of residents of coun- tries outside the Sterling Area are subject to approval, which is granted in the same circum- stances and subject to the same conditions as if a transfer to the country of residence of the account holder were involved. Transfers are allowed freely, on application, between accounts of non- residents of the Sterling Area. Under current pol- icy, the balance on an account held by a nonresi- dent of the Sterling Area may be withdrawn in convertible currency. There are no blocked accounts containing funds ineligible for remittance overseas. Imports and Import Payments With the few exceptions mentioned below, goods may be imported freely without import licenses, and no restrictions are imposed on pay- ments for imports, provided that the prescription of currency requirements are observed. Import licenses are required for unwrought, waste, and scrap aluminum and aluminum alloy; used equip- ment (and parts therefor) for earth-moving, exca- vating, and handling of materials; twine, rope, cordage, and cable of polyethylene and/or poly- propylene; 2 used or secondhand four-wheel drive vehicles (excluding public-service type passenger vehicles); and specified knitted garments. The licensing of the knitted goods is a temporary measure applied while the Tariff Board conducts inquiries as to the needs of local industries affected. In accordance with resolutions of Decem- ber 16, 1966 and May 29, 1968 of the UN Secu- rity Council, mandatory sanctions have been applied against Rhodesia. Import controls are maintained on certain goods, irrespective of origin, for reasons of health, morals, or security; import controls are maintained over certain other goods where it is considered necessary to enforce quality standards. 1 The monetary area of Australia includes Papua and New Guinea. 2 With effect from Janua ry 1, 1969, these items no longer required a license. 27 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to exchange control, but, with the exception of trans- fers to specified bodies in Viet-Nam and remit- tances to Rhodesia (except in certain circum- stances), they are not restricted; the control operates pr imar i ly to prevent unauthorized capital transfers, although there are some restrictions maintained for security reasons. There is a basic exchange allowance of $A 4,000 in any 12 months for any kind of travel in any country; additional amounts may be obtained on application, pro- vided that the exchange control is satisfied that the exchange is to be used for bona fide travel expenses and not for an unauthorized capital transfer. Limits are placed on remittances for fam i ly maintenance and gifts; however, applica- tions for such transfers are treated liberally, and amounts beyond the normal limit for fam i ly main- tenance are approved on application. Travelers who are not residents of Australia may take out any amount in foreign or domestic banknotes within 6 months of entry, provided that they brought the notes into Australia. Other travelers may take out up to $A 100 in Australian cur- rency, without special authorization; of this amount, up to $A 4 may be coins. Exports and Export Proceeds The export of all commodities, unless specifi- cally exempted, requires an export license in terms of the Banking (Foreign Exchange) Regu- lations, to ensure that the fu ll proceeds are received in a currency and within a period approved by the Reserve Bank. To assist super- vision, there is a fu r ther condition that all ship- ping documents, bills of lading, etc., must be drawn to the order of and delivered to the Reserve Bank or a trading bank acting as its agent. The Customs (Prohibited Exports) Regulations pro- hibit the export of specified goods either abso- lutely or subject to prescribed conditions. The purpose of the controls, inter alia, is to conserve Australian resources, viz., iron ores, and to assist the orderly marketing in respect of primary prod- ucts. Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited in accor- dance with the UN Resolutions. Proceeds from invisibles Proceeds from invisibles received in Sterling Area currencies may be disposed of freely. Pro- 28 ceeds from invisibles in other currencies do not have to be surrendered, but they must be reported and may be disposed of only with permission. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital All transfers of capital from Australia require approval. Transfers abroad of resident capital nor- mally are allowed only for certain types of direct investment overseas. Approval is normally granted for the repatriation of capital by nonresidents, but no advance commitments are given. No restrictions are placed on the receipt of capital funds from abroad, but residents must obtain prior approval before borrowing foreign currency, including Sterling Area currency, or incurring a liability to a resident of a country out- side the Sterling Area. Wholly or substantially foreign-owned companies are requested by the Government to consult the Reserve Bank of Aus- tralia in connection with any proposals they may have to borrow funds in Australia. Foreign securities owned by Australian resi- dents need not be surrendered, but they must be reported. This obligation does not cover securities whose principal and interest are payable in a cur- rency of the Sterling Area or certain securities expressed in Canadian dollars and registered in Australia, provided that the securities are held w i th in the Sterling Area. The export of securities and practically all transactions in foreign secu- rities are subject to approval. Funds invested by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area in securities quoted on an Australian stock exchange can be repatriated under current policy in non- Sterling Area currency at official market rates of exchange. Residents of Australia are permitted to sell in the investment currency or property currency mar- ket in the United Kingdom receipts in non-Ster- ling Area currencies that under the U.K. regula- tions are eligible for disposal in these markets. Gold Residents must surrender to the Reserve Bank of Australia all gold coming into their possession with the exception of gold coins the gold content value of which does not exceed $A 50 and gold ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution lawfully acquired for use in a profession or trade. Newly mined gold acquired by the Reserve Bank is made available at its official buy ing price to an association of gold producers for sale at free mar- ket prices to local industrial users or overseas purchasers. Certain domestic gold production is subsidized under the Gold-Mining Industry Assistance Act, 1954. Imports of gold are not restricted but imported gold becomes subject to delivery to the Reserve Bank. Exports of gold require the approval of the Reserve Bank. Gold jewelry is not subject to acquisition by the Reserve Bank and imports of such items are unrestricted. Exports of gold jewelry exceeding $A 250 in value require the issue of an export license. Travelers require an export license if taking out of Australia gold jewelry in excess of a total value of $A 2,000 or when the gold content value of any one article exceeds $A 250. Changes during 1968 January 1. The Republic of China was included in the list of less developed countries accorded preferences in the Australian customs ta r i f f. January 1. A 10 per cent withholding tax on gross interest paid by companies to nonresidents of Australia was introduced. January 2. The list of commodities originating in specified less developed countries that were permitted to enter Australia at preferential tariff rates was extended. January 6. Temporary protective quantitative restrictions were imposed on imports of twine, rope, cordage, and cable of polypropylene and mixtures of polyethylene and polypropylene. They were removed on January 1, 1969. AUSTRALIA May 14. The Government authorized the Reserve Bank to make newly mined gold avail- able to an association of gold producers at its official buy ing price for sale at free market prices to local industrial users. A daily price for these sales was henceforth fixed by the association. July 1. The export incentive scheme was amended. The modified scheme provided for rebates of payroll tax geared to the growth in value of exports over their value in a base period and allowed an income tax rebate for promotional expenses overseas. July 1. An extension of the range of items f rom specified less developed countries permitted to enter Australia at preferential ta r i ff rates announced on February 7 took e f fec t. Certain preferential rates previously not applicable to Hong Kong were also extended to commodities of Hong Kong origin. September 2. Following the UN Resolution No. 253 of May 29, the Government announced that measures to implement comprehensive man- datory sanctions against Rhodesia would be taken. September 27. The Australian Meat Board ceased shipments of beef and mutton due for arrival in the United States before January 1, 1969. December 23. It was announced that export- ers could in certain circumstances send funds to the United Kingdom to aid U.K. importers in making import deposits. The exchange control approval would be related to specific export ship- ments, and the remittances would have to be returned to Australia upon release of the import deposit. 29 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA * Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0341796 gram of fine gold per Austrian Schilling or S 26.00 = US$1. The official limits for the U.S. dollar are S 25.80 buy- ing, and S 26.20 selling, per US$1—rates at which the Austrian National Bank will buy or sell. The rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Market rates for other currencies vary between limits which result from combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Austria and such limits in force in the country of the other cur- rency concerned. "Agreement dollars" are quoted at par with the U.S. dollar. Forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Austria accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom August 1, 1962. Administration of Control The Austrian National Bank administers the exchange control and issues licenses where required. Most exchange transactions pass through those Austrian banks that have been authorized to implement exchange control regulations. The customs issue freely and without delay licenses required for imports of liberalized goods. Licenses, if required, for other imports and for exports have to be obtained from the competent ministry, viz., the Federal Ministry of Trade, Com- merce, and Industry (Licensing Office) or the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the countries with which Aus- tria ma in ta ins bilateral payments a r rangemen ts2 are made through clearing accounts expressed in U.S. dollars. Settlements with all other countries may be made either in convertible currencies or through Free Schilling Accounts. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of nonresident accounts in schillings: Free Schilling Accounts and Blocked Accounts. Free Schilling Accounts may be freely credited with proceeds from the sale of gold, gold coins, or convertible currencies by a nonresident to the Aus- trian National Bank, or to an authorized bank, as well as with payments permitted by the National Bank on the basis of a general or individual autho- rization. The accounts may be freely debited for payments to Austrian residents, with the exception of loans granted by nonresidents to residents, which require individual licenses. Balances may be freely converted into any foreign currency. Transfers between these accounts are free. Blocked Accounts consist of funds that are due to nonresidents. A general license permits their use for many payments for current and capital invisibles. The transfer abroad of funds in Blocked Accounts is subject to an individual license. In most cases the licenses are granted freely if the funds belong to residents of countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible curren- cies. As a result, Blocked Accounts largely repre- sent funds due to residents of countries with which Austria settles payments through bilateral accounts. Nonresidents may also maintain Nonresident Accounts in convertible foreign currencies. These accounts may be debited for the same purposes as Free Schilling Accounts. Imports and Import Payments All commodities not included in the Annex to the Foreign Trade Law are free of import licens- ing and may be imported from any country with- out quantitative restriction. All goods included in the Annex require licenses. Most of these goods are free of quan t i ta t ive restriction. The liberaliza- tion depends on the group of countries from which they are imported; for such liberalized goods, licenses are issued by the customs at the time of clearance.3 Nearly all imports from European 1 In view of certain changes that took place on Jan- u a ry 1, 1969 (see note at the end of this su rv ey ), this survey presents the position on that date. 2 Bu lga r ia, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ge rmany, Hunga ry, Poland, R um a n i a, and U.S.S.R. 3 Goods liberalized for import f rom a given group of coun tr ies may be free ly imported from any coun try in the group, provided that the coun try of exportation and the c o u n t ry of p roduc t ion of the goods involved are in the same group. 30 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OECD countries, their associated territories, and many other countries4 are liberalized. Imports from Canada and the United States and its terri- tories are liberalized to the same degree as those from the European OECD countries, except that slaughtered poultry is subject to quantitative restriction when imported from Canada or the United States. Imports from three other countries5 are treated in practically the same way as imports f rom European OECD countries. Many nonagri- cultural imports are admitted under an automatic licensing procedure when originating in Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, or Rumania. Nonliberalized imports may be obtained under various procedures, namely, state trading, global quotas, bilateral quotas, discretionary licensing, and compensation (bar ter). State trading covers tobacco in any form, salt, spirits, and various breadstuffs and feedgrains. Global quotas apply to specified imports from OECD countries and all other GATT countries, except Cuba, Czechoslovakia, and Japan. Discre- tionary individual licensing is applicable to all other private imports not covered by the proce- dures listed above. Licenses are usually granted if the imports concerned do not adversely affect domestic industries; in many cases, they are issued in accordance with quotas established in bilateral trade agreements. Import licenses may not be granted for goods imported under compensation transactions, unless there is no other way of settling payments; at present, trade under such arrangements is negli- gible. Grains and other specified goods are imported 4 The fu ll list is as follows: Algeria, Argentina, Aus- tra l ia, Belgium, Botswana, Brazil, Burma, Bu rund i, Cam- bodia, Cameroon, Canada, Central A f r ican Republic, Ceylon, Chad, Chile, Congo (Brazzaville), Democratic Republic of Congo, Cyprus, Dahomey, Denmark, ( inc lud- ing Faroe Islands and G reen land ), Dominican Republic, Finland, France, Gabon, Gambia, Federal Republic of Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guyana, Haiti, Iceland, Indo- nesia, Ireland, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Kenya, Kuwait, Lesotho, Luxembourg, Malagasy Republic, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldive Islands, Mali, Malta, Mau r i tan ia, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Peru, Portugal, Rhodesia, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, South Afr ica, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Tanzania, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, United Kingdom, United States, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Yugoslavia, and Zambia. 5 Ind ia, Israel, and Pakistan. AUSTRIA in accordance with a special system of controls and regulations maintained under so-called Agri- cultural Marketing Laws. In addition to grains, the following groups of products are covered by Mar- keting Laws: milk and butter; cattle, pigs, and horses for slaughter; products from these animals for human consumption; and certain fertilizers. In principle, import licenses are issued only to importers who have received trade licenses. For new importers there is a newcomers' quota, which is up to a maximum of 20 per cent of the corre- sponding global quota. Import licenses are not transferable and are valid for six months, but this period may be extended. Payments for imports from, and originating in, countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies do not require exchange licenses.6 Payments for imports from, or origi- nating in, countries with which Austria maintains bilateral payments agreements require exchange licenses, which are granted without restriction if the payments are made in the appropriate bilat- eral currencies. Payments for Invisibles With few exceptions, residents are permitted to conclude transactions involving current invisibles with residents of countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies. Exceptions comprise transactions concerning transport, films, and insurance. For transactions in current invisibles that involve payments to resi- dents of all other countries, individual licenses are required. The licenses are granted after account is taken of the terms of existing bilateral payments arrangements and other considerations, such as the principle of reciprocity and hardship cases; certain liabilities (e.g., freight payments, handling charges, commissions, etc.) are covered by gen- eral licenses. Payments on account of authorized invisibles to residents of countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies may be made freely, provided that no capital transfer is involved. Payments up to S 1,000 to such coun- tries may be made freely, at any time, and without 6 In a few instances, import licenses are granted only on condition that a bilateral currency is used for pay- men t; in such cases, the necessary exchange license is issued at the same time. 31 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA indication of purpose; payments up to S 1,000 to clearing countries may be made without a special license if they relate to imports or specified ser- vices. All other payments to bilateral payments agreement countries for invisibles require special licenses. Residents traveling to countries with which Aus- tria makes settlements in convertible currencies may buy exchange from authorized banks up to the equivalent of S 26,000 for each trip. Should a resident require more foreign exchange for travel- ing, the increase may be authorized by the National Bank. In addition, Austrian residents may arrange for trips abroad through travel agents and pay in schillings to cover expenditures for hotels and food as well as transportation. Persons leaving Austria may take with them S 15,000 in Austrian notes and coins and any amount in for- eign notes and coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses for exports regulated under the For- eign Trade Law have to be obtained from the competent ministry. Goods exported under com- pensation arrangements are subject to licensing by the Federal Ministry of Trade, Commerce, and Industry. For most other exports, licenses are not required. Export licenses are issued with due con- sideration for the provisions of relevant bilateral trade agreements and the fu l f i l lment of quotas established in accordance with such agreements, and for the needs of the Austrian economy. Export claims must be declared. Export pro- ceeds may either be surrendered or be deposited in accounts with authorized banks. Such deposits in convertible currencies may be used freely for authorized payments. Deposits in bilateral clear- ing currencies may be used in accordance with the terms of an ind iv idual payments license. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles, if not sur- rendered or deposited in an account with an autho- rized bank, have to be declared within eight days from the date of collection. They may either be surrendered or be deposited with an authorized bank and subsequently used in the same way as proceeds accruing from exports. Persons entering Austria may bring in Austrian or foreign bank- notes and coins without limit. 32 Capital Direct investments by nonresidents are gener- ally permitted, if made with convertible currencies or from free or originally owned blocked schilling balances. For investments financed in other ways (imported Austrian currency, inconvertible cur- rencies, investment loans, goods), authorization is granted on the merits of each case. Residents are permitted to obtain from nonresi- dents loans and credits as follows: ( 1) commer- cial credits for a period of up to one year; (2) loans with maturities of five years or more, to be used for investment purposes (e.g., for expansion of production equ ipmen t); ( 3) loans to be used by enterprises in Austria in which the nonresidents participate; (4) loans secured by export claims; and ( 5) loans for a period of up to five years, to be used abroad for definite merchandise transac- tions. The Austrian National Bank permits the trans- fer abroad of ( 1) proceeds from the liquidation of various foreign investments in Austria (shares or participation in Austrian enterprises, Austrian securities, real estate in Austria) and ( 2) repay- ments by residents of foreign loans and credits. The transfer of funds owned by emigrants, and payments due to nonresidents on account of dow- ries, inheritances, and settlements under certain agreements between heirs, are permitted. Residents are allowed to acquire participation rights in foreign companies, associations, and other enterprises, and to establish, acquire, or extend foreign agencies or individually owned firms; earnings accruing from such investment may be reinvested. Residents also are permitted to acquire real estate abroad, to grant commercial or investment credits, and to grant credits secured by mortgages in Austria or abroad. Domestic insurance companies may conclude with nonresi- dents life insurance contracts in Austria. Transactions and operations mentioned in the four preceding paragraphs are licensed upon docu- mentation, provided that they are concluded with residents of countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies. A number of authorized banks are permitted to accept from abroad and to employ abroad funds in convertible currencies for a period of up to five years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Residents are allowed to purchase from non- residents, without restriction, foreign securities quoted on foreign stock exchanges and Austrian securities; for foreign securities and Austrian exter- nal bonds, the transactions must be carried out on a spot basis through authorized banks and, with certain exceptions (e.g., in the case of Austrian external bonds), the securities purchased must be kept with such banks. Payments for these pur- chases to residents of countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies may be made in those currencies, whereas payments to residents of countries with which Austria has bilateral payments agreements may be made only by crediting a Blocked Account. Residents may sell securities deposited in accordance with the afore-mentioned provision with Austrian autho- rized banks to nonresidents only on a spot basis against payment in convertible currencies and through authorized banks. The proceeds of the sale, as well as the foreign exchange obtained as a result of redemption of the foreign securities by the debtor, may be kept on account with an authorized bank. Gold Transactions in gold (excluding jewelry and medallions, which are considered jewelry) are governed by the Foreign Exchange Law. The Austrian National Bank is authorized by this law to deal in gold as defined therein; the Bank has granted a number of general permissions widely liberalizing the domestic gold trade, but does not itself buy or sell gold or gold coins, except in transactions with monetary authorities of other countries or with international financial institu- tions. The Bank has authorized credit institutions, exchange offices, and coin dealers to buy or sell gold coins that are not legal tender on their own behalf or on their customers' behalf; the prices are based on those for coins and unmanufactured gold in free markets abroad. The Mint releases certain types of gold coins to authorized credit institutions for resale to the public. Residents may hold gold in any form, including bars, in Austria, and they may acquire in Austria any gold coins that are not legal tender and any gold medals or medallions; furthermore, domestic trading between residents in gold with a fineness of less than 0.585 is unrestricted. With the exception of coins, med- als, and gold with a fineness of less than 0.585, the AUSTRIA acquisition from residents of gold subject to the Foreign Exchange Law is reserved for the mone- tary authorities, authorized industrial users, den- tists, and jewelers; the Mint, gold refiners, and jewelers are permitted to trade or exchange among themselves gold in any form. Where the Foreign Trade Law prescribes import licenses for gold imports (e.g., for gold sheets), the license is either issued by the Ministry of Trade, Commerce, and Industry, which usually grants any license applied for by industrial users, or by the customs office concerned, which issues licenses automatically for certain gold imports within its competence. Where this law does not require an import license for imports (e.g., for the import of gold bars), the Foreign Exchange Law prescribes a license issued by the National Bank covering the purchase of gold; such licenses are issued after consideration of the merits of each case. Exports of gold in any form other than jew- elry require authorization by the National Bank. The National Bank's imports and exports do not require import, exchange, or export licenses. Com- mercial imports of jewelry and of articles contain- ing a minor amount of gold, such as watches, are liberalized, licenses being issued automatically by the customs; commercial exports of a number of such articles, however, must be licensed by the Ministry of Trade, Commerce, and Industry. Changes during 1968 January 1. New trade agreements with Hun- gary and Poland entered into force, under which Austria would apply an automatic licensing pro- cedure to the import of certain additional com- modities when originating in these countries. January 15. A new trade protocol was signed with Albania; quotas were established for certain imports from that country. February 28. A new trade protocol was signed with Rumania providing for further de facto import liberalization by Austria and the applica- tion by Austria of the GATT import ta r i f f. The latter was applied to Ruman ia with effect from December 1. March 20. The Austrian National Bank ceased publication of a buying price for gold and sus- pended its purchases of gold from sources other than monetary authorities. Consequently, in those 33 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA transactions for which general authorizations had been granted, in accordance with the National Bank's Ordinance No. 2/62, gold prices were no longer subject to control. March 28. The Mint resumed its sales of gold coins to authorized credit institutions. These sales had been suspended since March 15. May 27. A long-term trade agreement with Bulgaria was signed. An automatic licensing pro- cedure would be applied for certain imports into Austria. For certain commodities of Bulgarian origin, Austria would grant GATT tariff treat- ment. July 10. An amendment to the Investment Fund Law defined the sale of investment company certificates as a banking activity; companies engag- ing in their sale would require a banking conces- sion. The position of Austrian companies admin- istering investment funds was not affected since they were already considered credit institutions by the Investment Fund Law. July 11. A long-term trade agreement with Eastern Germany was signed, retroactive to Jan- uary 1, 1968. An automatic licensing procedure would be applied for certain imports into Austria. For certain commodities of East German origin, Austria would upon application grant GATT tar- iff treatment. November 12. A new trade protocol with Poland provided for fur ther de facto import liber- alization by Austria. November 27. A new trade protocol with Hun- gary provided for further de facto import liber- alization by Austria. December 31. It was announced that agree- ment had been reached with Japan to the effect that the number of commodities of Japanese origin that are subject to import quotas would be reduced from 244 to 181. The additional liberalization went into effect on January 1, 1969. NOTE. —The following changes occurred early in 1969: January 1. A new foreign trade law came into effect, slightly modifying that of 1956. January 1. An increase from S 500 to S 1,000 took place in the amount up to which authorized banks could by virtue of a general permission freely make payments for any purpose on behalf of residents to recipients resident in countries with which payments take place in convertible curren- cies. The National Bank also issued a general permission authorizing payments up to S 1,000 by residents, through the appropriate bilateral account, to residents of payments agreement coun- tries; this general permission only covered pay- ments in respect of imports, incidental expenses, bank charges, commissions and agents' fees, and assembling and repair costs. 34 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG Exchange Rate System The par values are 0.0177734 gram of fine gold per Belgian Franc and per Luxembourg Franc or BF 50.00 = US$1 and Lux F 50.00 = US$1. There are two exchange markets —the official and the free. In the official exchange market, only autho- rized banks may carry out exchange transactions permitted in that market.1 The spot exchange rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates within official limits of BF 49.625 buying, and BF 50.375 selling, per US$ 1; the rates for the other convert- ible currencies fluctuate between limits which result from combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Belgium-Luxembourg and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. Most exchange transactions are settled through the official market. In the free exchange marke t, all currencies (including bankno tes) may be bought and sold at freely fluctuating rates. Convertible currencies acquired through the free market may be sold in the official marke t, but no other direct connection between the two marke ts exists. On December 31, 1968, the free ma rket rates between banks for the U.S. dollar were BF 52.00 buying, BF 52.20 sell- ing, per US$1. Depending on the category of payments and receipts, either one or both of the exchange mar- kets may be used for settlements with so-called convertible area countries, which include all coun- tries except those in the bilateral group.2 If receipts from bilateral group countries are obtained in convertible currencies, they are to be ceded on the official marke t. Forward rates are left to the interplay of mar- ket forces. In the official marke t, authorized banks in Belgium-Luxembourg may deal with other authorized banks and with nonresidents in any of 1 The currenc ies dealt w i th in the off ic ial market are Au s t r i an schillings, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Ne the r lands gu i lders, Norweg ian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds s te r l ing, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. They are referred to in this survey as the conve r t ib le currencies. 2 The b i la te ral group countries are B u r u n d i, Demo- cratic Repub l ic of Congo, Rwanda, and U.S.S.R. the convertible currencies. Any resident or non- resident, banks included, may deal freely in any currency in the free marke t. Belgium and Luxembourg accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory There is no exchange control between Belgium and Luxembourg (the Belgian-Luxembourg Eco- nomic Un ion ); the two countries constitute a single exchange control territory in relation to other countries. Administration of Control The u l t ima te responsibilty for the administra- tion of exchange control in the Belgian-Luxem- bourg Economic Union (BLEU) is exercised by the Institut Belgo-Luxembourgeois du Change. Exchange control powers for most payments and transfers are delegated to authorized banks. The BLEU Convention of May 23, 1935, revised with effect from August 1, 1965 by a Protocol of Jan- uary 29, 1963, conferred on the Belgo-Luxem- bourg Administrative Commission the authority to license trade transactions; this Commission determines import and export policy, but has del- egated the issuance of import and export licenses to the Licensing offices of the BLEU, one of which is located in each country. Prescription of Currency The prescription of currency requirements operate mainly to ensure that settlements with foreign countries are made, according to their nature, through the appropriate exchange market or, where payments in Belgian or Luxembourg francs are involved, through the appropriate cate- gory of nonresident account. Foreign countries are divided into two groups: the bilateral countries (see footnote 2) and the convertible area (all other countries). All inward and outward transactions are classi- fied in four groups, which may be summarized as follows: List A covers merchandise, transport expenses, industrial expenses (e.g., costs of pro- cessing) and other commercial expenses including 35 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG insurance; List B covers settlements of travel firms, salaries, pensions, fees, subscriptions, taxes, and public administration payments; List C covers administration expenses, income on securities, loans, etc., rents, exploitation rights, repatriation of certain foreign long-term investments, and transfers by emigrants of foreign nationality; List D covers gifts, life insurance payments, family maintenance payments, capital investments, liqui- dation of investments, dealings in gold, transfers by emigrants of Belgian or Luxembourg nation- ality, transfers by immigrants, inheritances, for- ward covering of merchandise, private travel expenses, and all transactions not in any of the other three lists. The permissible methods of settlement for for- eign payments are summarized in the accompany- ing table. In dealing with countries in the convertible area, there is a choice between the official and the free market for convertible cur- rencies received from transactions in Lists C and D or paid for transactions in Lists A, B, and C; such settlements with the convertible area if made in Belgian or Luxembourg francs can also be settled through a Financial or a Convertible Account. All payments to countries in the con- vertible area, and all receipts from such countries for transactions included in Lists C and D, may also be effected in domestic or foreign banknotes. In addition to the general methods of settle- ment described above, individual licenses are granted in order to allow transfers through the official market for some of the transactions men- tioned in List D. These cover essentially direct investment by enterprises and some capital trans- fers by individuals. Nonresident Accounts Belgian or Luxembourg franc accounts of non- residents are classified as follows: 1. Convertible Accounts. Balances on these accounts are equivalent to currencies negotiated on the official market, and these accounts may be opened in the name of any nonresident.3 They are not related to any country or monetary area. They may be used for settlements which either must or may be made through the official market, and may be credited with proceeds from the sale by a nonresident of convertible currencies in the official market to authorized banks in Belgium- Luxembourg. Balances on Convertible Accounts may be transferred freely to any nonresident account or be converted into any currency in the official or the free market. 2. Financial Accounts. These accounts may be opened only for residents in convertible area countries,4 and they are not related to any coun- try or monetary area. They may be used for settle- 3 Inc lud ing civil servants of foreign na t iona l i ty who are employed in the BLEU by specified in terna t ional organi- zations. 4 Ind iv idua ls resident in Bu rund i, Democratic Republic of Congo, or Rwanda are authorized to maintain "assimilated" resident accounts. SUMMARY OF PERM ISS IBLE METHODS OF SETTLEMENT FOR FOREIGN PAYMENTS TRANSACTION LIST COUNTRY GROUP FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE MARKET Outward Payments A, B, and C Convertible D A, B, C, and D Convertible Bilateral Any Any Official or free Free A a n dB C and D Convertible Convertible Inward Payments Convertible Convertible Other Official Official or free Free A, B, C, and D Bilateral Convertible Official NONRESIDENT ACCOUNT IN FRANCS Any Financial Bilateral 5 Convertible 36 — — ments which either must or may be made through the free marke t, and may be credited with pro- ceeds from the sale by a nonresident of gold or any currency in the free market and of convert- ible currencies in the official marke t. Domestic banknotes and proceeds from the sale in the free market of foreign banknotes deposited with autho- rized banks by foreign travelers in Belgium- Luxembourg or by persons residing abroad may be credited freely to Financial Accounts. Trans- fers between Financial Accounts are free. Bal- ances on these accounts may be used to purchase gold or any currency negotiated on the free marke t. 3. Bilateral Accounts. These accounts may be opened for residents of bilateral countries (see footnote 2 ), and they are related to the country of residence of the account holder. They are used for settlements with bilateral countries, and may be credited with proceeds from the sale by a non- resident of convertible currencies in the official marke t. Balances on Bilateral Accounts may be transferred to other Bilateral Accounts related to the same country. Transfers may be made freely between Bilateral Accounts related to Burundi, the Democratic Republic of Congo, and Rwanda. In practice, the authorities permit the conversion of balances on Bilateral Accounts of the central banks of these three countries into foreign currencies. Imports and Import Payments All imports of Rhodesian origin are prohibited. Individual licenses are required for ( 1) all imports from Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Czecho- slovakia, Eastern Germany, Hong Kong, Hun- gary, Japan, North Korea, Outer Mongolia, Poland, Rhodesia, Ruman ia, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam,6 (2) a few imports from Lux- embourg into Belgium and vice versa, and (3) a number of imports from all other countries.7 The commodities for which individual licenses are required include many textile products, certain agricultural products and foodstuffs, and coal and kerosene. All other commodities, which consti- 6 Import licenses are issued freely for a large number of commodities when originating in and shipped f rom Bu lgar ia, Czechoslovakia, Hunga ry, Poland, and Ruman ia. 7 Some imports in the last group do not require an import license when imported f rom the Netherlands or f rom other EEC countries. BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG tute about four f i f ths of total imports, are free of license and quantitative restriction; only a simple form completed by the importer giving notifica- tion of the payment (payment declaration) is required when payment is made through an authorized bank. Many commodities subject to individual licensing are also admitted without quantitative restriction. Imports from non-EEC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC (including cereals, rice, pork, eggs, and poultry mea t) are subject to variable import levies which have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EEC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EEC countries of beef, veal, dairy products, olive oil, most other oils and fa ts, sugar, and specified fruits and vege- tables. No exchange control documentation is required for imports not exceeding BF 10,000 in value. The authorized bank is required to make certain that payment is made by one of the methods laid down in the regulations (see section on Prescrip- tion of Currency, above). If the requirements are not fu l f i l led, the authorized bank submits a request to the central exchange control authority for spe- cial permission. Exchange control approval is also required to make payments for imports more than three months before or after the date of customs clearance. Payments for Invisibles Payments to convertible area countries for transactions included in Lists A, B, and C may be made through the official exchange market or by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Con- vertible Account. Supporting documents must in that case be presented to an authorized bank, and in exceptional cases the approval of the central exchange control authority is required. Payments to convertible area countries for all invisibles (including those in List D) may be made through the free marke t, by crediting Belgian or Luxem- bourg francs to a Financial Account, or in domes- tic or foreign banknotes. Payments to bilateral countries (see footnote 2) must be made by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Bilateral Account related to the country con- cerned. Foreign and domestic banknotes may be exported freely. 37 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG Exports and Export Proceeds The export of all goods to Rhodesia is pro- hibited in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 253 (68) of May 29, 1968. The export to Nigeria of arms, ammunition, and other military material is also prohibited. Individual licenses are required for (1) all exports to Alba- nia, Bulgaria, ma in land China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Outer Mongolia, Poland, Rhodesia, Ruman ia, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam, (2) a few exports f rom Belgium to Luxembourg and vice versa, and ( 3) specified exports to all other countries.8 All other exports are free of license; only a simple form completed by the exporter giving notifica- tion of the export is required. No exchange control documentation is required for exports not exceeding BF 10,000 in value. The authorized bank is required to make sure that export proceeds are received in accordance with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Special authorization is required to collect export proceeds more than six months after the date of exportation. Export pro- ceeds in convertible currencies must, within eight days of receipt, be surrendered to an authorized bank, or, alternatively, they may be deposited in a Controlled Resident Account in Foreign Currency with an authorized bank if they are to be used later for current payments authorized to be made in these currencies. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in convertible currencies from invis- ibles connected with certain commercial transac- tions (Lists A and B—see section on Prescription of Currency, above) must, w i th in eight days of receipt, be surrendered (i.e., sold in the official exchange m a r k e t ), or, alternatively, be credited to a Controlled Resident Account in Foreign Cur- rency with an authorized bank if they are to be used later for current payments authorized to be made in these currencies. Receipts in convertible currencies from other transactions (Lists C and D) with countries of the convertible area may be retained or sold in the official or the free marke t. Receipts in all other currencies may be retained 8 Some exports in the last group do not require an export license when exported to the Ne the r lands or to other EEC coun tr ies. 38 or sold in the free market. Proceeds from trans- actions included in Lists C and D from convert- ible area countries may also be collected in domestic or foreign banknotes. Foreign and domestic banknotes may be imported freely. Capital All capital transactions with convertible area countries may be carried out freely through the free marke t, by settlement in Belgian or Luxem- bourg francs through the Financial Account of a nonresident, or in domestic or foreign banknotes. Direct investments by enterprises and some capi- tal transfers by individuals, including gifts, family maintenance payments, remittances by emigrants of Belgian or Luxembourg nationality, and inher- itances, but not transactions of a financial charac- ter, may also be made through the official market, subject to individual license. In addition, incom- ing capital may be received in convertible cur- rencies through the official market or in Belgian or Luxembourg francs to the debit of a Convert- ible Account. The exchange control authorities may guarantee the repatriation of approved for- eign investments made in Belgium-Luxembourg. In that case, capital brought in through the offi- cial market may be repatriated through that mar- ket. Also eligible for outward transfer through the official market are the amortization and redemp- tion proceeds of bonds denominated in Belgian or Luxembourg francs, quoted on a stock exchange in the BLEU, and owned by residents of convert- ible area countries, provided that such securities had been held at least six months prior to the ma tu r i ty date. All transactions in securities by residents or nonresidents are free, but the finan- cial settlement of such transactions must conform to the general regulations. Inward payments for capital transactions with bilateral countries must be received in convertible currencies through the official market or in Belgian francs through Bilat- eral Accounts; ou tward payments for capital transactions with bilateral countries must be made only in Belgian francs through Bilateral Accounts. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in the fo rm of coins or bars, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in these forms by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license. Settlements in respect of gold ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution transactions with convertible area countries may be made through the free market, through finan- cial accounts in Belgian or Luxembourg francs, or in domestic or foreign banknotes. No customs duties or other charges are levied on imports or exports of gold, except on imports for industrial or hand icraft purposes. Licenses are required for imports of semiprocessed gold; these are issued without limitation, and professional users are authorized to make payments through the official market. Changes during 1968 During the year, a considerable number of minor changes took place in the lists of commod- ities that required an individual import or export license. January 7. Public bids by foreign companies or individuals for the purchase or exchange of shares issued by Belgian companies were made subject to the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance. February 75. A Benelux trade agreement was signed with India relating to imports of specified Indian cotton textiles. Specified items would remain free from quantitative restrictions. The agreement entered into force on June 18, 1968, BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG retroactive to January 1, 1968, and would be valid un t il the end of 1970. February 79. The access of foreign-owned companies to the Belgian capital market was improved, when the Societe Nationale de Credit a Tlndustrie announced that it was prepared to finance certain types of new investments up to 100 per cent, irrespective of whether they were made by foreign or domestic investors. February 27. The export of oil made from petroleum or bituminous minerals was exempted from individual licensing. May 3. A Benelux trade agreement was signed with Pakistan relating to imports of specified Pakistan cotton textiles. Specified items would remain free from quan t i ta t ive restrictions. The agreement entered into force on August 9, 1968, retroactive to October 1, 1967, and would be valid until the end of 1970. November 28. Petroleum products were exempt from export licensing. December 31. It was announced that the pref- erential rediscount rate for exports would be dis- continued for EEC countries, with effect from January 1, 1969. 39 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA Exchange Rate System On May 14, 1953, a par value for the Boliviano was established by Bolivia with the Fund. How- ever, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. A single, free ly fluctuating rate was established by virtue of Supreme Decree 4538 of December 15, 1956. All exchange transactions are carried out in a free marke t, in which the exchange rate has remained stable since Janua ry 1959. On Janua ry 1, 1963, the boliviano was replaced by the Bolivian peso at a rate of Bs 1,000 = $b 1.00. For operational purposes, the free market is divided into two sectors: the public sector and the private sector. The Monetary Department of the Central Bank of Bolivia operates in the public sector, buy ing foreign exchange f rom the Govern- ment and the official enterprises, inc lud ing the Bolivian M in ing Corporation (COMIBOL), and selling foreign exchange to the Bank ing Depart- ment of the Central Bank, the banks, and the Government and its official agencies. The exchange rate of the Mone tary Department of the Central Bank on December 31, 1968 was $b 11.875 buy- ing, and $b 11.885 selling, per US$1. All sales of foreign exchange are subject to a 1.6 per cent exchange tax and a 2 per mill stamp tax. Bolivia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from June 5, 1967. and certain locally produced goods is temporarily prohibited. All other goods may be imported freely. Exchange to pay for imports may be pur- chased in the free marke t. All foreign credits, including suppliers' credits, are subject to autho- rization by the Stabilization and Development Council. Most private sector imports are subject to a customs surcharge of 10 per cent ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles and capital transfers may be made freely through the free market. Buyers of foreign exchange in excess of US$100, however, must indicate the purpose of their pur- chase. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are not subject to licensing. Exchange receipts from exports by official agencies must be sold to the Central Bank, with the exception of the portion required for their own use. Proceeds f rom other exports may be sold to commercial banks or to authorized exchange houses at the free market rate, or they may be retained by the exporter. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange derived f rom invisibles may be sold in the f ree market. Prescription of Currency Capital There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Settlements are usua l ly made in U.S. dol- lars or other convertible currencies. Payments between Bolivia and Argen t ina, Chile, Colombia, and Peru may be made through accounts ma in- tained with each other by the central banks. Imports and Import Payments All imports by public sector agencies require the prior authorization of the Ministry of National Economy. Pr iva te imports of certain commodities also require such prior authorization; these goods include live cattle, various foods tuffs, raw cotton, and petroleum and petroleum products. The import of passenger automobiles, station wagons, 40 Outward capital transfers by residents or non- residents are free of control and may be made through the free ma rke t; inward capital transfers also may be made through that ma rke t. Buyers of foreign exchange in excess of US$100 must indi- cate the purpose of the purchase. All foreign credits, including suppliers' credits, to government agencies and autonomous entities, and official guarantees of such credits, are subject to prior au thor iza t ion by the Stabilization and Develop- ment Council. Foreign investments in Bolivia, except those involving petroleum and mining, are governed by the provisions of the Investment Law of Octo- ber 19, 1965, which guarantees the free convert- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ibility and repatriation of profits and amortized capital. Companies established before the passage of this law may also benefit from its provisions. The law is administered by the Institute for the Promotion of Investment in Bolivia ( INP IBOL ). Investments in petroleum and m in ing are governed by the Petroleum Code and the Mining Code. Gold By v ir tue of Supreme Decree No. 07771 of August 2, 1966, imports and exports of gold and domestic trading in gold are subject to regulation by the Central Bank. The Decree also designated the Central Bank to purchase, for its use or for export in the fo rm of gold bars, the total national production of gold. The Central Bank purchases gold from COMIBOL and one large mine, while the Mining Bank buys from the smaller producers on behalf of the Central Bank; the Central Bank's purchases as well as those of the Mining Bank are made at the equivalent of US$35 an ounce. The M in ing Bank is authorized to sell a specified quantity of gold annually to domestic jewelers and dentists and is obliged to sell the remainder to the Central Bank. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form other than bars in Bolivia. Exports and imports of gold other than gold jewelry are not normally permitted. Changes during 1968 January 17. Supreme Decree No. 08230, which revised Supreme Decree No. 07771 of August 2, 1968, provided that all domestically produced gold and platinum must be sold to the Central Bank; under certain circumstances, however, pur- chases would be made by the Mining Bank acting on behalf of the Central Bank. March 1. A reciprocal credit arrangement signed by the central banks of Argentina and Bolivia went into effect. March 5. A reciprocal credit arrangement BOLIVIA signed by the central banks of Bolivia and Colom- bia went into effect. April 9. Supreme Decree No. 08322 prohibited until July 31, 1969 the import of certain locally produced goods, including fu rn i tu re, household articles, certain textiles and clothing, shoes, cos- metics, butter, sugar, and cocoa. April 9. Supreme Decree No. 08326 subjected all public sector enterprises to the exchange tax of 1.6 per cent and the stamp tax of 2 per mill on purchases of foreign exchange. April 9. Supreme Decree No. 08315 prohibited until July 31 1969 the import of passenger auto- mobiles and station wagons. July 3. Supreme Decree No. 08400 increased customs duties for all private sector imports by 10 per cent ad valorem. Exempted were only a few essential foods tuffs, medicines, capital goods for new investments, and all imports by diplomats, international organizations, technical assistance missions, churches, and humanitarian institutions. The consular fee of US$10 established by Supreme Decree No. 08046 for imports valued at more than US$100 was abolished. Imports made by the public sector, except those by the Central Govern- ment, were exempt from the increase in customs duties but subject to a consular fee of US$10 per bill of lading. August 12. A reciprocal credit arrangement signed by the central banks of Chile and Bolivia went into effect. October 31. Purchasers of foreign exchange in excess of US$100 (or the equivalent in other cur- rencies) were required to indicate the purpose of the purchase. Sales of exchange to the private sector were not restricted, however. November 15. A reciprocal credit arrange- ment signed by the central banks of Peru and Bolivia went into effect. 41 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA' Exchange System Botswana's currency is the South African Rand, the par value of which is 1.24414 grams of fine gold per rand or R 1 = US$1.40. Exchange rates are based on South Africa's fixed rates for sterling against rand and the London market rates for sterling against other currencies. Botswana is part of the Sterling Area. The Ministry of Finance controls all external currency 1 Botswana became a member of the Fund on July 24, 1968. transactions; where the export of funds to a coun- try outside the Sterling Area is concerned, the screening may be done in collaboration with the South African Reserve Bank. Inward capital trans- fers require exchange control approval, but certain types of such transfers are freely permitted by open general licenses. Imports are usually licensed along the lines of South Africa's import regula- tions. Changes during 1968 No significant changes took place. 42 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 1 Exchange System On July 14, 1948, a par value for the Brazilian Cruzeiro was established by Brazil with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. Brazil fol- lows a flexible exchange rate policy. Exchange transactions are carried out by the Bank of Brazil, operating for the account of the Central Bank or for its own account, the autho- rized banks, and the exchange houses, which deal only in banknotes and travelers checks in a "man- ual market." Effective exchange rates of the com- mercial banks do not exceed official rate quotations by more than 1 per cent. Un iform i ty between the rates quoted by the Bank of Brazil and the effective rates of the authorized banks is ensured by the practice of the monetary authorities of standing ready to purchase foreign exchange from the banks and to sell exchange to the banks on an adequate basis, for approved transactions; such purchases and sales are made at the official rate. On February 3, 1969, the buy ing and selling rates quoted by the monetary authorities to the public were NCr$3.905 and NCr$3.93 per US$1, respectively; those quoted by the authorized banks for transactions other than in banknotes or travelers checks were approximately the same (see Table of Exchange Rates, be low). Exchange rates for other currencies (including "agreement currencies" used for settle- ments with bilateral agreement countries) are based on the U.S. dollar rates in Brazil and the dollar quotations for such currencies in interna- tional markets. On the buying side other effective rates result f rom the following arrangements: (a) Special regulations apply to coffee exports (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low ), (b) A 15 per cent contribution ("contribution quota" or quota de contribui^do) is levied on proceeds from exports of cocoa beans and cocoa paste, (c) A 5 per cent contribution is levied on pro- ceeds from exports of cocoa derivatives. On the selling side, a d ifferent effective rate 1 In view of changes that took place early in 1969 (see note at the end of th is s u r v e y ), this survey presents the position on Feb rua ry 3, 1969. arises from the provision of the Foreign Invest- ment Law (see section on Payments for Invis- ibles, be low), which specifies that the sum of profits and dividends effectively remitted to per- sons and companies resident abroad is subject to a supplementary income tax when the average of actual remittances in any three-year period, from 1963 onward, is in excess of 12 per cent a year of registered capital and reinvestment. The Bank of Brazil, acting on its own behalf or on behalf of the Central Bank, carries out a large proportion of all exchange transactions. The Central Bank does not engage in such transactions for its own account. The following arrangements assure the Bank of Brazil of a large portion of the country's foreign exchange receipts: ( 1) Authorized banks must surrender to the Bank of Brazil on behalf of the Central Bank (a) any foreign exchange in excess of a net position of US$25,000 at the close of each working day; (b) 70 per cent of the exporter's portion of the exchange proceeds of coffee exports; and (c) those exchange proceeds from coffee exports cor- responding to the "contribution quota." (2) Petrobras surrenders its entire foreign exchange proceeds from certain exports of petroleum on the basis of an agreement that grants it special facilities for imports of crude oil and petroleum by-products. ( 3) Proceeds from exports of iron ore by the Vale do Rio Doce Company are sur- rendered to the Bank of Brazil, although there is no legal requirement that receipts from these exports be negotiated with or transferred to the Bank. All public sector agencies must carry out their exchange operations through the Bank of Brazil. Furthermore, exporters in regions not served by banks other than the Bank of Brazil sell their exchange proceeds to the Bank. The Bank of Brazil sells foreign exchange for the requirements of the Government at the exchange rate prevailing on the date when a transaction is made. Like the other commercial banks, the Bank of Brazil also sells foreign exchange for pay- ments in respect of a large number of imports, including crude oil and petroleum products, wheat, newsprint, fertilizers, and the requirements of the Vale do Rio Doce Company. Moreover, the Bank of Brazil handles for the account of the Central Bank all exchange transactions in 43 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL bilateral currencies (either direct or by trans- ferring exchange to authorized banks or vice versa) and exchange transactions related to imports under U.S. aid. Finally, the Bank of Brazil, operating for the account of the Central Bank, supplies foreign exchange to authorized banks in amounts not exceeding those needed to eliminate an oversold position of up to US$500,000 and limited to 25 per cent of the exchange sold the previous day by the bank concerned to its customers. All free market transactions in foreign exchange other than those undertaken by the Bank of Brazil are effected direct through authorized banks. They may not maintain an oversold posi- tion in excess of US$500,000 on any working day; included in this limit is their "manual mar- ket" position (banknotes and travelers checks). The banks are permitted to sell foreign exchange to each other, provided that they are situated in the same trading center; transfers between branches of the same bank in different trading centers are also allowed, subject to certain condi- tions. The "manual market" is conducted mainly by exchange houses, which are not permitted to maintain a sold position and are not entitled to obtain exchange cover from the monetary authorities. Administration of Control The National Monetary Council is responsible for the formulation of over-all foreign exchange policy. The control system is operated by the Exchange Operations Department of the Central Bank (GECAM) under the general direction of the Board of Directors of the Central Bank and the National Monetary Council. Coffee exports are regulated by the Brazilian Coffee Institute ( IBC ). The Central Bank's exchange operations are handled by the Bank of Brazil. The National Council of Foreign Trade (CONCEX) formulates foreign trade policy. The Ministry of Foreign Affa irs is the Council's exec- utive organ for dealing with foreign countries, while the Foreign Trade Department of the Bank of Brazil (CACEX) implements the Council's decisions within Brazil. The Foreign Trade Department issues export and import licenses, when required, as well as import certificates (guias de importa$ao), and verifies price quota- 44 tions, weights, measures, classifications, and types in export and import operations that are subject to license. The Customs Policy Council decides on changes in customs duties or in their appli- cation, subject in some cases to the approval of the Ministry of Finance. The Sector for the Control and Registration of Foreign Capital (F IRCE) in the Central Bank is in charge of processing the registration of for- eign capital for the purpose of its repatriation and of the remittance of income therefrom; it also approves the terms of foreign financing for imports. Prescription of Currency Prescription of currency is in principle related to the country of origin of imports or the country of final destination of exports, unless otherwise specifically prescribed or authorized. Settlements with payments agreement countries are made through the relevant agreement account. These accounts are maintained in clearing dollars with Bulgaria, Eastern Germany, Greece, Hungary, Israel, Poland, Ruman ia, the U.S.S.R.,2 and Yugo- slavia; and in clearing sterling with Iceland. On the basis of provisions for the settlement with certain nonclearing countries of outstanding balances or transactions under bilateral agree- ments now terminated, a few payments with these countries are still settled in agreement dollars. All trade with Bolivia, except Brazilian exports of coffee and cocoa, is settled in cruzeiros under a border trade agreement. Settlements with other countries with which Brazil has no payments agreements or arrangements are made in U.S. dol- lars or other convertible currencies. Reciprocal credit agreements have oeen signed with Chile, Mexico, and Peru but are not yet in operation. Imports and Import Payments The import control legislation previously dis- tinguished two categories of imports: (1) com- modities in the General Category, which were free of quantitative restrictions and licensing, and (2) commodities in the Special Category, which required licenses and were subject to restrictions. Since March 1, 1967, however, all commodities 2 The payments agreement with the U.S.S.R. expired on April 30, 1969. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution listed in the former Special Category have been governed by the import control regime applicable to General Category commodities. Many of the former Special Category items have since been made subject to surcharges on the existing cus- toms duties. Special arrangements described below apply to certain commodities, and the import of new automobiles and recreational boats of a value over US$3,500 is prohibited. For all other imports, the administrative procedures are as follows. Importers require one of two documents: ( 1) an import license for goods that benefit from special tariff concessions and goods imported with foreign financing or ( 2) an import certifi- cate (guia de importagdo). For the bulk of imports, an importer must secure from CACEX an import certificate which is issued subject to the presentation of data on the foreign price of the commodity and any other information CACEX may consider necessary. As a rule, import certificates are issued freely and without undue delay. The import certificate entitles the importer to obtain a visa from the Brazilian consular authorities abroad which is required for shipment of the goods. The import certificate is valid for 120 days. The following rules apply with respect to the closing of exchange contracts for payment for imports. Imports subject to customs du ty of less than 50 per cent may be cleared through customs against presentation of the relevant import docu- ment and may take place before an exchange contract has been closed. However, as a general rule, the max imum period for which payments for imports may be delayed must not exceed 180 days f rom the date of shipment. This period may be extended to 360 days in exceptional circum- stances at the discretion of the Central Bank. For imports subject to customs duty of 50 per cent or more, the conclusion of an exchange contract is obligatory prior to the issue of an import document; this provision is intended to discourage the use of foreign commercial credits for the financing of imports of commodities that are considered less essential. Spot contracts may be closed if the contract is intended to settle d ra f t s, at sight or on ma tu r i ty, and the appropri- ate shipping documents are presented. Spot BRAZIL exchange contracts must be settled within 2 work- ing days. Forward contracts, for up to 180 days, may be closed when a letter of credit is being opened, or to pay for goods already shipped. Letters of credit must be opened within 5 working days from the date of the exchange contract. Commercial banks ordinarily require a guaran- tee deposit for their own protection for forward exchange contracts; the amount of the deposit varies with the credit standing of the customer. When the contracts are liquidated, guarantee deposits may be used for payment of the foreign exchange concerned. Interest at about 2 per cent a month is normally charged on the portion of the forward contract not covered by a deposit. Special procedures are applicable to certain imports of petroleum and petroleum products and of wheat. For petroleum and specified petroleum by-products, Petrobras concludes a "global for- eign exchange contract" with the Bank of Brazil once every four months for its estimated require- ments. The contract is concluded at the official market rate prevailing 10 days prior to the closing of the contract. At the same time, the Bank of Brazil concludes a foreign exchange contract with the Central Bank, to cover its position, for an amount equivalent to the value of the *'global contract" at the exchange rate at which the Cen- tral Bank sells foreign exchange to commercial banks; the rate applicable is again the one pre- vailing 10 days prior to the conclusion of the "global contract." Individual exchange contracts for petroleum shipments made during the life of the global contract are then closed at the exchange rate on which the latter is based. Pay- ment by Petrobras against such contracts is made in the following manne r: 30 per cent of the value of an individual contract is deposited 15 days from the date of shipment, and the remaining 70 per cent 110 days after shipment. The liqui- dation of each individual contract 110 days af ter shipment is accompanied by the liquidation, up to an equivalent value, of the exchange contract signed by the Bank of Brazil with the Central Bank; the liquidation of this latter exchange con- tract also takes place at the exchange rate at which the contract was originally signed. In accordance with the provisions of a Decree of October 27, 1966, exchange contracts for the purchase of crude oil and major petroleum prod- ucts from a single foreign supplier in excess of 45 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL specified quantities and terms of delivery may be closed only if the foreign supplier assumes a commitment to use at least 20 per cent of the value of total imports contracted for one of the following purposes: ( 1) to arrange for exports of Brazilian products; ( 2) to finance exports of Brazilian products; ( 3) to invest in risk capital of companies domiciled in Brazil; (4) to finance Petrobras in its exploration, refining, and produc- tion activities; and (5) other uses that may be approved by the National Council of Foreign Trade (CONCEX). CONCEX is responsible for determining periodically the products whose export should be promoted in this manner. In accepting tenders, preference is, moreover, given to those foreign suppliers, who, while quoting a competitive price, are willing to assume in respect of part of the value of the contract any of the obligations described above, even though the con- tract is for an amount below that for which a commitment is obligatory. Petrobras must report to the Foreign Trade Department and the Exchange Department of the Bank of Brazil all purchases of crude petroleum and by-products and, when a supplier undertakes to use a speci- fied proportion of the proceeds according to one of the ways set out above, all details relating to such an undertaking. Balances corresponding to the value of commitments undertaken are released only to the extent that such commitments have been fu lf i l led. Where the commitments are of the voluntary kind referred to above, balances cor- responding to the value of a commitment required of the foreign supplier have in the past been released af ter a max imum period of 180 days, if within that period it proved impossible to use these balances for the purposes defined in the decree. Certain imports are subject to customs sur- charges imposed by Decree Law No. 333 or Decree Law No. 398. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles related to income from foreign capital, royalties, and tech- nical assistance are governed by the provisions of the Foreign Investment Law. In addition to cer- tain restrictions on remittances stipulated in that law, limits are placed, by virtue of an internal Central Bank measure of September 19, 1965, on remittances of all royalties and technical assis- 46 tance fees (see below). Authorized banks may sell foreign exchange freely up to the equivalent of US$300 for personal remittances abroad. The sale of foreign exchange for travel abroad is sub- ject to special regulations as described below. Payments for other current invisibles require the approval of GECAM, which authorizes remit- tances freely, subject to the presentation of sup- porting documents as evidence that a bona fide current transaction is involved. Sales of foreign exchange to meet personal expenses connected with travel abroad are per- mitted up to US$1,000 a person a trip, without the prior approval of the Central Bank, on the following terms: (1) in banknotes up to US$100, and ( 2) in payment orders or travelers checks for the rest. Applications for purchases of travel exchange in excess of US$1,000 must be sub- mitted to the Central Bank, which considers each case on its merits. Amounts in excess of US$1,000, when authorized, may be taken up in the form of payment orders only. Foreign resi- dents in transit in Brazil are permitted to pur- chase foreign currency up to the equivalent of the amount they sold during the period of their stay in Brazil; however, purchases in excess of 30 per cent of the amount previously sold require the approval of the Central Bank. Each purchase transaction is registered and the records of these operations, which must contain the name of the clients, are submitted daily to the Central Bank. The sale of tickets for international air travel to residents of Brazil is made against local currency upon presentation of valid passports. Remittances abroad of foreign capital, income from foreign investments and reinvestments, and remittances in respect of royalties and technical assistance are governed by Decree No. 55762 of February 17, 1965, which contains the regula- tions implementing the Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 4131, as amended by Law No. 4390). Remittances are allowed only when the foreign capital concerned, including reinvestments, and the contracts for patents and trademarks, and for technical, scientific, and administrative assistance, are registered at FIRCE in accordance with the established rules (see section on Capital, below). Remittances are normally authorized in the cur- rency of registration. Remittances of interest on loans and credits and of related amortization pay- ments are permitted freely in accordance with ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the terms stipulated in the respective contract and recorded in the Certificate of Registration. A progressive supplementary income tax is levied on such remittances of earnings on foreign capital if their average over a three-year period exceeds 12 per cent of the registered capital and reinvest- ments. For foreign capital that produces goods or services for luxu ry consumption, remittances of profits are limited to 8 per cent per annum of registered capital. Remittances of royalties are not permitted by a branch or subsidiary established in Brazil to its head office abroad when at least 50 per cent of the local firm's voting capital is directly or indirectly held by the foreign principal firm or when the majority of the firm's capital in Brazil belongs to the recipients of the royalties abroad. Moreover, by virtue of an internal Cen- tral Bank measure of September 19, 1965, remit- tances of royalties by nonsubsidiary companies and of all technical assistance fees are limited to specified percentages, ranging from 1 per cent to 5 per cent of gross receipts from the sale or manufac ture of given products (classified by type of production) for which royalty and technical assistance payments are incurred abroad. The percentages are the same as those used in deter- mining the max imum deductions for such pay- ments when determining taxable income under the taxation laws governing foreign investment income. Letters of credit opened for payment in incon- vertible or "agreement" currencies for imports contracted on an f.o.b. basis must contain a clause requiring that the goods be transported on a ship under the flag of Brazil or the exporting country. Travelers may take out domestic and foreign banknotes freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Under the provisions of Law No. 5025 of June 10, 1966, exports, with only minor excep- tions, are free of licensing. Accordingly, exports are grouped into the following three categories: (1) free exports, (2) exports subject to control, and (3) prohibited exports. The first category includes the large majority of exports. The sec- ond category is limited to those goods that are considered to require control in the national inter- est. The commodities included in the third cate- gory are exceptional cases regulated by specific laws. Exports of coffee are subject to authoriza- tion by the Brazilian Coffee Institute. BRAZIL The Brazilian Coffee Institute does not grant the authorization to export coffee unless the sale contract is based on a price per pound that is at least equal to the m in imum registration price (in U.S. dollars per pound, f.o.b.) fixed from time to time by the Institute. The minimum regis- tration price varies with the quality of the coffee and the port of shipment, and the actual contract price may not be lower by more than US$0.02 per pound for coffee exports of higher quality and may not be lower by more than US$0.03 per pound for coffee exports of lower quality. Export- ers of coffee are required to surrender without compensation a portion ("contribution quota") of their foreign exchange receipts;3 the cruzeiro equivalent of this portion is transferred to a Coffee Defense Fund. For the export proceeds in excess of the contribution quota, exporters receive ( 1) payment of a fixed cruzeiro amount per bag4 determined from time to time by the Brazilian Coffee Institute and (2) payment of the fu ll cruzeiro equivalent at the free market rate of any foreign exchange received in excess of the m in imum registration price. To the extent that the foreign price obtained by the exporter is lower than the minimum registration price, the cruzeiro payment to the exporter is reduced; the reduction is calculated at the prevailing selling rate. Thus, the effective exchange rate for coffee exports depends on (i) the cruzeiro payment per bag, ( i i) the m in imum registration price, ( i i i) the actual price received (f.o.b. Brazil, in U.S. dollars per p o u n d ), and ( i v) the free market rate. Based on payments per bag of coffee of NCr$99.00, NCr$90.50, NCr$85.60, NCr$71.00, and NCr$63.60 for different grades and ports of ship- ment, and corresponding minimum registration prices per pound of US$0.375, US$0.365, US$0.355, US$0.325, and US$0.310, respec- tively, prevailing on February 3, 1969, and on the assumption that the foreign price obtained by the exporter was equal to the minimum registration price, the effective rates for proceeds from coffee exports on that date were NCr$2.054, NCr$ 1.878, NCr$ 1.827, NCr$ 1.655, and NCr$ 1.554 per US$1. Proceeds of exports of soluble coffee are 3 The amount of the con tr ibu t ion depends upon the applicable m in imum registration price, the fixed cruzeiro amount paid per bag, and the cu r rent buy ing rate of the B a nk of Brazil. 4 The cruzeiro amount per bag varies w i th the qu a l i ty of the coffee and the port of shipment. 47 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL not subject to the contribution quota and the exporter receives his fu ll proceeds converted at the prevailing free market rate. In accordance with the provisions of various Resolutions of the Brazilian Coffee Institute, a price guarantee system for exports of Brazilian coffee is maintained. Under these provisions a foreign importer of Brazilian coffee is entitled to compensation from the Institute, under specified conditions, for any reduction in the price of Bra- zilian coffee below the level at which the import- er's purchase took place. For any shipment date, the guarantee period at present is 30 days. The compensation to be received by the foreign importer is to equal the difference between ( 1) the price of Santos 4 ex dock New York on the date of export registration at the Brazilian Coffee Institute, and (2) the lowest similar price calcu- lated on the basis of its moving average for peri- ods of 10 consecutive market days, for the period starting on the date of shipment and ending on the day when the respective guarantee period terminates. The compensation takes the form of a credit that the importer may use in payment for new direct purchases of coffee from Brazil. The credits must be used within 90 days from the date of issue. The proceeds from all other exports are also sold at freely negotiated exchange rates, but exporters of cocoa beans and cocoa paste are required to surrender without compensation 15 per cent of their exchange proceeds; and exporters of cocoa derivatives (butter, cake, and powder) are required to surrender without com- pensation 5 per cent of exchange proceeds. The cruzeiro equivalent of these deductions is used to finance a program of price support and planta- tion improvement for cocoa. CACEX may, through the Fund for Export Financing (FINEX), finance exports of con- sumer durable goods and capital goods against payment at medium term and long term, pro- vided that the suppliers' credit does not exceed 80 per cent of the invoiced value. Credits granted for more than one year may be refinanced by CACEX for the fu ll amount payable, provided that the exporter has given the necessary guaran- tees and that the ma tur i ty of the loan is consid- ered compatible with the value of the exports and the terms for suppliers' credits prevailing in world markets. 48 Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds f rom current invisibles are sold through the Bank of Brazil or the authorized banks at the prevailing market rate. Travelers checks and foreign banknotes are sold in the "manual market." Travelers may bring in domes- tic and foreign currency notes freely. Capital Inward transfers are unrestricted and free of control. For the purpose of repatriation and the remittance of income, however, foreign capital and the reinvestment of profits on foreign capital must be registered with FIRCE. Foreign capital is defined as ( 1) goods, machinery, and equip- ment which have entered the country without an initial corresponding expenditure of foreign exchange and which are to be used to produce goods or to render services, and (2) financial and monetary resources brought into the country for investment in economic pursuits, provided that, in either case, the owner is a person or firm resident or domiciled abroad or with headquarters abroad. Foreign capital is classified, for purposes of registration, as direct investments or loans, whether imported in the form of money or goods, and it includes reinvested profits from foreign capital. Direct investment is defined as that for- eign capital which constitutes part of corporate capital and participates directly in the risk inher- ent in an economic undertaking. Foreign capital that is not part of the corporate capital of any enterprise and that does not participate directly in capital risk is considered to be a loan. Any loan obtained to purchase capital goods abroad, whether conceded by the manufacturer himself or a third party, is considered to be financing (mostly suppliers' cred i t). Loans are considered to be cash loans when monetary or financial resources are brought into Brazil. To register foreign capital, it is necessary to prove that the capital has entered Brazil. The registration of capital is made in the currency in which it entered the country. For financed imports and for investments made in the form of goods, registration is made in the currency of the country of domicile of the creditor or investor (or of its head off ice) or, in special circum- stances, in the currency of the country of origin ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of the goods or of the credit. To register loans that are made in foreign currency, it is necessary to certify that the interest rate corresponds to that prevailing in the country of the lender, and that the prices of the imported goods correspond to the prices of comparable goods in the country of origin. If FIRCE approves the terms of financ- ing, it issues a certificate of authorization to CACEX. The latter, in tu rn, examines the appli- cation in the light of the price and essentiality of the proposed import and of the availability of similares nationals.5 If CACEX approves the application, it grants an import license. The registration of direct investment is subject to the following rules: The capital that enters or has entered Brazil is registered in foreign cur- rency. Reinvestments are defined as profits of companies estabilshed in Brazil and accrued to persons or companies resident or domiciled abroad; such profits must have been reinvested in the same companies that produced them or in another sector of the Brazilian economy. The registration of reinvested profits is made simul- taneously in Brazilian currency and in the cur- rency of the country to which the profits could have been remitted. The conversion is calculated at the average exchange rate prevailing between the date on which the profits were earned, or appeared on the balance sheet in the case of a company, and the date of their reinvestment. To provide a more normal basis for the supply of working capital in Brazil by foreign investors, the Bank of Brazil under the provisions of SUMOC Instruction 289 enters into repurchase arrangements which provide that the seller of foreign exchange may subsequently repurchase equivalent foreign exchange, free of restrictions, guarantee deposits, or financial charges, and that the procedure for registration to satisfy the requirements of the Foreign Investment Law will be both immediate and automatic. The repur- chase must be a spot transaction in the free mar- ket with any authorized bank (or with the Bank of Brazil if it so elects) and does not involve an exchange rate guarantee; the repurchase rights may be exercised in whole or in part after 60 days but will expire af ter 360 days. 5 As de term ined in accordance w i th gu ide l ines estab- lished by the Customs Policy Council. BRAZIL Moreover, to facilitate the use of foreign credits by Brazilian enterprises, Central Bank Res- olution No. 63 authorizes private commercial and investment banks to take up foreign credits for relending to the domestic private sector for the purpose of financing fixed or working capital. The safeguards against excessive use of such credits include limitations on the foreign obliga- tions that each bank may assume (related to the terms of the credit and the size of the bank) and the provision that the ultimate borrower must agree to assume the exchange risk involved in these transactions. The certificate of registration of the loan for the purposes of the Foreign Invest- ment Law is furn ished by FIRCE upon appli- cation. Other transfers to foreign countries require authorization by GECAM, which considers appli- cations on their merits. Exchange transactions concerning private capital are effected through an authorized bank or the Bank of Brazil at freely negotiated rates. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Brazil. Purchases of gold are ruled by Law No. 4425 of November 2, 1964. Resi- dents other than the monetary authorities and licensed industrial users are not permitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold (other than alloys for dental use) abroad unless special permission is obtained from the Central Bank. Law No. 4425 stipulates that producers of gold must sell 20 per cent of their output to the National Treasury, through the Bank of Brazil, at the official market price, i.e., at US$35 per ounce; the other 80 per cent would remain at the free disposal of the person concerned. This provision has never been enforced, however, and the mone- tary authorities do not deal in gold. The domestic negotiation of newly mined gold, which takes place at free market prices, is subject to a mining tax of 8 per cent, a turnover tax of 17 per cent, and a consumption tax of 18 per cent. The import of gold is subject to the issuance of an import certificate by CACEX and is free of cus- toms du ty. Exports of gold coins and gold bars are prohibited and the export of gold in any other form (except jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler) requires an export license. 49 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL Table of Exchange Rates (as at February 3, 1969) (New cruzeiros per U.S. dollar) 1.554-2.054 Buying (Official Mar kef Rate for Cruzeiro Payment a Bag and Minimum Registration Price)6 Coffee exports effected at a price equal to the m in imum registration price, for payment at sight. 3.32 (Official Market Rate less 15% Contribution Quota) Exports of cocoa beans and cocoa paste. 3.71 (Official Market Rate less 5% Contribution Quota) Exports of cocoa derivatives. 3.905 ("Manual Market" Rate) Foreign banknotes and travelers checks. 3.905 (Official Market Rate) All other export proceeds. Other receipts. Changes during 1968 During 1968 the cruzeiro payment per bag (132 pounds) of the various grades of coffee was increased on four occasions (on January 10, April 30, August 23, and October 10). The effec- tive exchange rates applicable to proceeds from coffee exports were changed accordingly. January 1. Decree Law No. 333 went into force. It provided for an over-all increase in tariffs by 5 per cent; exempt from this import surcharge were bound tariff rates when the resultant rate would exceed the amount agreed by treaty and commodities already exempt from import duty. The customs dispatch tax of 5 per cent on the value of imports was eliminated. January 3. Central Bank Resolution No. 82 pro- vided that clearance of imports through customs was no longer subject to the prior closing of an exchange contract. Previously, an importer had to close an exchange contract in payment for imports (which could be closed forward for up to 180 days) prior to the clearance of the goods through customs. It also provided that exchange contracts in payment for imports could only be closed against presentation of documentary evi- dence of a genuine import transaction. In addition, GECAM Announcement No. 42 changed the rules for the closing of forward exchange contracts in payment for imports. For- ward contracts in payment for imports could Selling 3.93 ("Manual Market" Rate) Foreign banknotes and travelers checks. 3.93 (Official Market Rate) Imports. Invisibles.7 Capital. henceforth be closed only when it was intended to open a letter of credit, or to pay for goods already shipped. A credit had to be opened within 5 working days from the date of the exchange con- tract. Previously, it was possible to enter into forward contracts without proving that a genuine import transaction was involved. Both measures were designed to prevent speculative transactions. January 3. Central Bank Resolution 83 revoked the right previously extended by SUMOC Instruction 289 to repurchase foreign exchange brought in under the provisions of this instruc- tion on a forward basis. January 3. Central Bank Resolution 84 pro- vided that sales of foreign exchange in the "manual market" to meet personal expenses con- nected with travel abroad were permitted up to US$1,000 or the equivalent in other currencies without the prior approval of the Central Bank, on specified terms. Applications for purchases of foreign exchange for travel abroad in excess of US$1,000 had to be submitted to the Central Bank. The Central Bank subsequently authorized such purchases in accordance with the merits of each case. The purchaser of the foreign exchange was no longer required to present evidence show- ing compliance with income tax obligations, but the requirement that each purchase transaction be registered and that the records of registration of these operations be delivered daily to the Central Bank continued to be in force. 6 The cruzeiro payment per bag and the m in imum registration price vary w i th the qua l i ty of the coffee and the port of shipment. 7 A d ifferent effective rate applies to certain remit- tances of profits and dividends (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). 50 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution January 3. Central Bank Resolution 84 obliged authorized banks to include their "manual mar- ket" operations in the calculation relating to their max imum allowable sold position. Exchange houses authorized to deal exclusively in "manual market" operations were not permitted to main- tain sold positions. The Central Bank ceased sell- ing foreign exchange to them. January 4. The buying and selling rates of the monetary authorities were changed from NCr$2.700 and NCr$2.715 per US$1 to NCr$3.20 and NCr$3.22 per US$1. January 10. The Brazilian Coffee Institute's Resolution No. 428 introduced a new price guar- antee system for coffee exports. Foreign importers were entitled, under certain conditions, to a com- pensation for any reduction during specified guarantee periods in the price of Santos 4 ex dock New York below the level at which the export was registered. Subsequent extensions (IBC Reso- lutions Nos. 431, 437, 450, and 453 of March 1, April 30, and October 10, 1968, and January 8, 1969) provided for the operation of the guaran- tee system throughout 1968 and until the begin- ning of the new crop year in 1969. March 25. Central Bank Resolution No. 90 abolished the 20 per cent tax levied on seven types of hide. March 31. The bilateral payments agreement with Denmark was terminated. May 10. GECAM Announcement No. 59 pro- vided that the Central Bank ceased to require importers to lodge a cruzeiro deposit when pur- chasing agreement currencies for payment of imports at up to one year's term. May 16. Presidential Decree No. 62700 estab- lished that government agencies and other public sector agencies could not negotiate foreign credits or guarantees before the opinion of the Minister of Planning and General Coordination had been obtained. May 21. GECAM Announcement No. 60 pro- vided that the monetary authorities would resume providing cover to commercial banks for their foreign exchange operations, subject to certain conditions; the provision of such cover had been discontinued, except for specified transactions, in September 1967. BRAZIL May 21. Central Bank Resolution No. 91 established that, as a general rule, the maximum period for which payments for imports could be delayed would be 180 days from the date of ship- ment. This period could be extended to 360 days in exceptional circumstances, at the discretion of the Central Bank. Imports for which the period of settlement exceeded 360 days were to be regis- tered at the Central Bank. The measure was intended to enable the authorities, for purposes of foreign debt management, to distinguish between current imports under commercial credit and imports financed for longer periods. July 16. Central Bank Resolution No. 94 pro- vided that import certificates and import licenses (where applicable) relating to products subject to an import duty of 50 per cent or more could be issued only upon prior conclusion of an exchange contract. Exchange contracts relating to payment for other imports could still be closed at any time, with the maximum period for which payments for imports could normally be delayed fixed at 180 days. July 23. GECAM Announcement No. 73 pro- vided that foreign exchange contracts for imports subject to an import duty of 50 per cent or more could have a maximum validity of 180 days, dur- ing which period the goods must be dispatched; an exchange contract could be extended only once, for a max imum period of 30 days. August 24. GECAM Announcement No. 77 permitted commercial banks to pay or charge pre- miums in connection with forward exchange con- tracts, on condition that they were recorded in the contract and were calculated on the period foreseen for delivery of the bill of exchange, whether at sight or at term. August 24. GECAM Announcement No. 78 provided that authorized banks in the same trad- ing center could under specified conditions engage in transfer operations (re pases) in foreign exchange among themselves. Previously, trans- fer operations were permitted only between branches of the same bank. August 24. Central Bank Resolution No. 98 required banks and exchange houses to mark each sale of foreign exchange for personal expen- ses of travelers in the customer's passport. August 24. GECAM Announcement No. 80 reduced the limit up to which banks could sell 51 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL foreign exchange for personal remittances abroad from US$500 to US$300 per person. August 27. The buying and selling rates of the monetary authorities were changed from NCr$3.20 and NCr$3.22 per US$1 to NCr$3.63 and NCr$3.65 per US$1, respectively. It was announced that henceforth a new system of exchange rate management would be followed, involving small changes at frequent, but irregu- larly timed, intervals and geared, in general, to the movement of Brazil's prices relative to those of its major trading partners, the foreign reserve position, and export performance. September 1. The payments agreement with Iceland was modified. The swing credit was increased, but net debtor balances would hence- forth be settled semiannually in convertible currency. September 10. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed by the Central Banks of Brazil and Chile. September 24. The buying and selling rates of the monetary authorities were changed from NCr$3.63 and NCr$3.65 per US$1 to NCr$3.675 and NCr$3.700 per US$1, respectively. October 24. The National Monetary Council decided that the bilateral payments agreement with the U.S.S.R. should be terminated at an early date. November 19. The buying and selling rates of the monetary authorities were changed from NCr$3.675 and NCr$3.700 per US$1 to NCr$3.745 and NCr$3.770 per US$1, respec- tively. December 9. The buying and selling rates of the monetary authorities were changed from NCr$3.745 and NCr$3.770 per US$1 to NCr$3.805 and NCr$3.830 per US$1, respec- tively. " December 31. Decree-Law No. 398 provided for an increase in customs duties by 100 percent- age points for a period of three years on a variety of imports considered nonessential, including most commodities previously listed in the Spe- cial Category. NOTE. —The following changes took place early in 1969: January 1. A new arrangement for payments in respect of petroleum imports became effective. Previously, the effective rate for Petrobras imports of petroleum and specified petroleum by-products was determined by quarterly contracts with the Bank of Brazil that guaranteed the application of the free market rate to Petrobras operations dur- ing the quarter. January 11. Decree-Law No. 421 provided that only Brazilian nationals or foreign nationals permanently resident in Brazil could purchase rural property in Brazil. Limitations were imposed on the acreage that foreign nationals could own. February 3. The buying and selling rates of the monetary authorities were changed from NCr$3.805 and NCr$3.830 per US$1 to NCr$3.905 and NCr$3.930 per US$1, respec- tively. 52 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.186621 gram of fine gold per Burmese Kyat or K 4.76190 = US$1. The buying and selling rates for sterling of the State Commercial Bank are Is. 9%d. and Is. 8%d., respectively, per K 1. The State Commercial Bank's buying and selling rates for currencies other than the pound sterling are within the limits of the m in imum buying and max imum selling rates fixed by the Union Bank of Burma. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Control Board through the Exchange Control Department of the Union Bank of Burma. Exports are handled by the Myanma Export-Import Corporation (MEIC or Trade Cor- poration No. 2 2 ). The MEIC also imports goods for the use of the private sector. Government agencies and departments make imports of goods for their own use, including imports under loan and aid agreements in the name of the MEIC. Most payments and imports are made in accor- dance with an annual foreign exchange budget. Prescription of Currency Payments to other countries may be made in any foreign currency or by crediting kya ts to an External Account in Burma. Receipts must be collected in convertible currencies or to the debit of an External Account in Burma. Imports and Import Payments An import program is drawn up annually as part of the foreign exchange budget. All imports are made by, or in the name of, the MEIC. All imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. Also prohibited are imports of a few com- modities f rom any source —principally opium and similar narcotics, monkeys, playing cards, and gold and silver bullion. All payments for imports are made through the State Commercial Bank. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to licens- ing. In general, payments for items connected with foreign trade are allowed automatically, and payments for most other purposes are considered on a case-to-case basis. Payments for membership fees to educational or technical institutions abroad and paymen ts for subscriptions to certain foreign periodicals are as a rule allowed free ly; the same applies to rental fees for motion-picture films that have been permitted to be exhibited. Family remittances are permitted only by foreign munici- pal workers or foreign technicians employed under contract by the Government. Remittances of income resulting from investment other than that guaranteed under the Investment Act have been temporarily suspended. The remittance of pension payments to retired government employ- ees who served the Government as Burmese nationals but took up foreign citizenship before depa r tu re from Bu rma is not permitted. Most personal money order remittances to neighboring countries through post offices are not permitted. Foreign exchange allocations for tourist travel by residents have been temporarily suspended. However, residents granted an official permit to go abroad for any purpose may take out freely the equivalent of K 50 in the currency of the coun- try of destination (except Ind ia) or, if that cur- rency is not available, in sterling notes. On leav- ing, nonresident travelers who have stayed in the country for less than six months may take out any foreign currency they still hold and may also reconvert one fou r th of the amount of foreign currency which they had converted into kyats. The export of Burmese currency notes is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are effected by the MEIC. There is a list of prohibited exports: iron and steel, brass, copper and a lum inum and scraps thereof, foreign manu fac tu res, and commodities of domestic origin which it is desired to conserve for domestic requirements. All exports to Rhodesia and South Afr ica are prohibited. Export proceeds must be obtained in a manner satisfactory to the exchange control authorities; the exchange must be surren- dered to the State Commercial Bank w i th in six months from the date of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered. Travelers may bring in, subject to dec- 53 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA laration, any amount in foreign currency. The import of Burmese currency notes is prohibited. Capital Foreign investments in Burma are governed by the provisions of the Union of Burma Invest- ment Act, 1959 and the Investment Rules of Feb- ruary 25, 1960 issued under authority of the Act. Investment proposals are considered by an Invest- ment Committee, to ascertain whether the pro- posed enterprise will utilize domestic raw mate- rials, increase domestic employment, conserve foreign exchange, and generally conform to the economic plans of the Government. However, since February 15, 1963, when the Government announced a new policy of nationalization, per- mission has not been granted for any foreign pri- vate investment in Burma. The investment law provides for the transfer abroad of profits after taxes and for the with- drawal of imported capital at any time after five years from the time of entry, in annual quotas not exceeding 25 per cent of its original value. In principle, proceeds from the liquidation or sale of an enterprise may also be transferred abroad. All such transfers may, subject to prior approval, be made at the official rate of exchange prevailing at the time of the transaction. However, transfers of capital proceeds from the voluntary liquidation of foreign companies have been suspended since July 1963. All outward transfers of capital require prior approval. Residents are not permitted to remit funds abroad for investment. The repatriation of personal assets and the making of fam i ly remit- tances have been suspended, with minor excep- tions, for foreign nationals employed in the pri- vate sector. When the transfer abroad of payments in favor of nonresidents is not permitted, the authorities can allow such payments to be credited to kyat nonresident accounts. Certain debits and credits to such accounts require prior permission. The import, export, and transfer of securities involving nonresident interests require individual licenses. Gold Residents may hold and negotiate gold jewelry, gold coins, and unworked gold in Burma. Licenses for imports and exports of gold are not granted unless they are effected by or on behalf of the monetary authorities of Burma. Jewelry for personal wear may be brought into Burma subject to customs declaration at the port of arrival. The export of personal jewelry is permitted under license, subject to the condition that the jewelry will be repatriated. No conditions are attached, however, to the taking out of personal jewelry that was declared to the customs when it was brought into Burma. Changes during 1968 No significant changes took place during 1968. 54 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0101562 gram of fine gold per Burundi Franc or FBu 87.50 = US$1. This rate is applicable to all transactions. The official rates on December 31, 1968 were FBu 87.23 buy- ing, and FBu 87.94 selling, per US$1. Authorized banks must carry out permitted exchange transac- tions at rates between the buying and selling rates fixed by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi for currencies quoted by that b a n kx and at rates fixed freely with their customers for certain other cur- rencies.2 The central bank bases its rates for the quoted currencies on their rates against the Belgian franc in Brussels. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions and foreign trade is vested in the Bank of the Republic of Burund i; authority to carry out some of these transactions is delegated to three authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Outgoing payments may be made in any cur- rency; receipts must be obtained in one of the cur- rencies quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi. Nonresident Accounts Certain nonresidents may maintain nonresident accounts in foreign currencies with an authorized bank. The opening of such accounts requires the approval of the central bank and is restricted to ( 1) physical persons of foreign nationality who are resident abroad and (2) juridical persons having branches or subsidiaries abroad. These accounts may be credited freely with any foreign exchange that is received from abroad. They may be debited freely for ( 1) conversion into Burundi francs required to pay any expenses in Burundi and ( 2) payments abroad for travel and representation or for the purchase price of foreign goods. These accounts cannot bear interest and must not be overdrawn; the related bank charges and commis- sions may be settled in Burundi francs. 1 These currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian f rancs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. dollars. 2 These currencies are Angolan escudos, East Afr ican shillings, Rhodesian pounds, and South A f r ican rand. Imports and Import Payments All imports except trade samples and merchan- dise not intended for sale and valued up to FBu 20,000 require licenses; these are issued freely, except for certain used clothing. Applica- tions for licenses must be submitted to the Bank of the Republic of Burundi on a form entitled Import License and Payment Authorization. The approval of such an application constitutes an authorization also to obtain foreign exchange. With certain exceptions, applications for amounts under FBu 100,000 are approved by the authorized banks. Import licenses must be presented to the customs officials when the goods are cleared through customs. The license is valid for a period of seven months starting at the end of the month following that of validation; in special cases, exten- sions may be granted by the central bank. The number and date of expiration must be entered on the customs clearance form, called the Consump- tion Declaration, a copy of which is then sent to the central bank by the customs office. Advance deposits calculated on the c.i.f. value are required for certain luxury goods from importers whose outstanding exchange commit- ments against import licenses are the equivalent of FBu 100,000 or over. The deposit on such com- modities is 100 per cent; it is not required, how- ever, when the goods are imported in small amounts, i.e., when the amount of the license is less than FBu 10,000. The deposit must be made at the time the import license application is approved; it is released when the import payment is made. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require approval. Transfers of earnings of foreign nationals are freely permitted upon proof of payment of taxes, up to 20-65 per cent of net annual income, depending on the amount of such income; this regime applies to earnings under a labor contract, to income earned in a profession, and to profits earned by any enterprise operated by an individual or a part- nership. Private joint-stock companies may freely transfer their full net profits after taxes, or, if the stockholders are resident foreign nationals, two thirds of profits after taxes. Persons leaving Burundi permanently are authorized to transfer abroad their holdings of Burundi francs that 55 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI consist of unremitted savings or of the pro- ceeds of the sale of their personal effects. Transfer of income from rental properties to nonresident owners is permitted after payment of taxes and deduction of normal maintenance expenses; res- ident owners may remit two thirds of such income. Residents of Burundi nationality may purchase reasonable amounts of exchange for foreign travel; they may take out this exchange and up to FBu 2,000 in Burundi banknotes. In addition, res- idents may freely purchase foreign travel tickets up to certain limits against payment in Burundi francs. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports valued at over FBu 3,000 are sub- ject to a prior declaration entitled Declaration of Collection of Foreign Exchange. The Declarations must be presented for certification by the central bank through an authorized bank, with the excep- tion of those for certain commodities exported on consignment (ma in ly coffee, cotton, and hides), which may be certified by authorized banks. Dec- larations are valid for a period of six months, but extensions may be granted by the central bank. Payments must be collected not later than 45 days after the goods have left the country when they are sold to neighboring countries, and not later than 90 days for goods shipped to other destina- tions. All exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered to an authorized bank within 8 days from their collection. Exports of manufactured goods may receive a refund of 3 per cent of the f.o.b. value, provided that they incorporate raw materials on which import duty has been paid. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered to authorized banks. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and up to FBu 2,000 in Burundi banknotes. Capital The Investment Code of August 25, 1967 pro- vides for fiscal and other benefits for domestic and foreign private investors. New investment that ful- fills specified conditions as to amount and eco- nomic importance may be granted priority status to which specified privileges are attached, mainly in the fo rm of exemptions from import duties and from taxes on income from the investment. Import duties and taxes may be reduced or suspended for 56 goods and equipment needed for starting a particu- lar project and, during a period of 5 years, for other merchandise needed for the manufacturing operation or for the upkeep of the original invest- ment. Taxes on profits and real estate may be like- wise reduced or suspended. Enterprises which are granted priority status may obtain protection against foreign competition, priority in the alloca- tion of government contracts, and a guarantee from the central bank for the free transfer of profits and dividends as well as the repatriation of the invested capital. In addition to these privileges, companies undertaking investments that are con- sidered to be of prime importance to Burundi's economic development may be granted, under a separate convention, a guarantee that direct taxes on their activities will not be increased for a period of up to 15 years. An Investment Commission under the Minister of Planning is charged with examining requests for priority status and granting the necessary authorization. Capital transfers by residents require individual authorization, which is rarely given, except in the case of foreign capital on which a repatriation guarantee has been granted. The guarantee is given to foreign exchange imported in specified currencies (see footnote 1) by resident enterprises for working capital purposes and is valid for one year from the date on which the exchange is sur- rendered to the central bank through an authorized bank. The guarantee provides for the transfer at the official rate of the original amount surrendered. Gold Dealings in gold coins must be carried out through authorized banks. All other private deal- ing in gold is prohibited. The central bank pur- chases unrefined, newly mined gold from domestic producers. Imports and exports of gold may be made only by the central bank. Changes during 1968 July 1. A two-column customs tariff was intro- duced. December 6. Circular No. 53 established new schedules applicable to the transfer abroad of salaries earned by Burundi residents. The amounts authorized for transfer varied from 20 to 65 per cent of the net annual income. The differential treatment of persons employed on a contract and those established as independents was terminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA Exchange Rate System The Cambodian Riel is defined as a monetary un it containing 0.0253905 gram of fine gold. Exchange transactions in U.S. dollars and pounds sterling are carried out at parity rates based on the gold content of the riel and the respective cur- rencies; these rates are CR 35 = US$1 and CR 84 = £1. The official parity for the French franc, however, is fixed at CR 10 = F 1; this rate is applicable to most settlements in French francs. Foreign tourists staying at all officially listed hotels are given coupons for CR 25 over and above the rate of CR 35 for each U.S. dollar sold (coupons for CR 2 over and above the rate of CR 10 for each French franc so ld). Sales and purchases of foreign banknotes quoted on the Phnom-Penh official market are made at the selling rate plus 2 per cent and at the buy ing rate minus 1 per cent, respectively. Rates for for- eign banknotes quoted "indicatively" on that mar- ket are determined by the authorized banks on the basis of the average rates announced by the National Bank of Cambodia plus a commission of 1 per cent for purchases and of 4 per cent for sales. Authorized banks are empowered to nego- tiate for their own account, and at a rate mu tua l ly agreed with their customers, foreign banknotes other than those quoted officially or "indicatively" by the National Bank of Cambodia. Arbitrage operations involving convertible currencies may be authorized by the National Exchange Office. If the operations take place in Cambodia, they are carried out at the rate of the day on the Phnom-Penh exchange market. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the National Exchange Office in cooperation with the National Bank of Cambodia; this office is empow- ered to authorize all operations related to settle- ments with foreign countries, to foreign invest- ments, and to nonresident accounts. All import and export transactions are effected by the National Import-Export Corporation 1 Cambodia is not a member of the International Monetary Fund. (Soclete Nationale d'Exportation et d'Importation or SONEXIM). The Ministry of National Econ- omy is in charge of import and export controls, but it has delegated this authority to the Director of Foreign Trade. Import and export licenses are issued by SONEXIM and must be domiciled with either of the two State banks, i.e., the Cambodian Bank of Commerce or the National Credit (Inadana J a t i ); the bank's visa is required before licenses are presented to customs. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th 11 countries with which Cam- bodia has bilateral payments arrangements are made through bilateral accounts. Those main- tained for Albania, iHainlapd^China, Czechoslo- vakia, Eastern Germany, North Korea, Poland, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam are denomi- nated in pounds sterling, and those for Bulgaria, Hungary, and Yugoslavia in U.S. dollars. Currencies prescribed for settlements with other countries are usually specified in the licenses. Payments for imports from the French Franc Area must be made in French francs. Pay- ments for imports f rom other countries are ordi- narily made in the currency of the country of the exporter. Foreign investments must be made in a currency acceptable to the National Bank. Profits on, and proceeds from the liquidation of, foreign invest- ments may be transferred abroad in the currency in which the investment was made. Nonresident Accounts The following categories of account may be maintained for nonresidents: Foreigners' Accounts in Riels, Capital Accounts, Nonresident Accounts, and Foreign Currency Accounts. In addition, Cambodian nationals staying abroad temporarily but not recognized as nonresidents, and foreigners staying in Cambodia but not recognized as resi- dents, may maintain special Internal Accounts of Nonresidents. Foreigners' Accounts in Riels may be opened, without permission, for foreigners residing abroad. They are related to the country of residence of the account holder. They may be freely credited 57 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA with ( 1) proceeds f rom the sale on the Phnom- Penh market of the currency (but not banknotes) of the country of the account holder; (2) pay- ments for authorized imports (including inciden- tal expenses) from the country of the account holder; ( 3) earnings on investments in Cambodia and receipts from repayments on Cambodian stocks and bonds and on other investments made in Cambodia after May 1956; and (4) interest paid by the banks on funds kept in the accounts. These accounts may be freely debited for normal expenses in Cambodia and purchases on the Phnom-Penh market of banknotes of the country of the account holder. Transfers between For- eigners' Accounts in Riels related to the same country may be made freely. Capital Accounts may be opened without per- mission. Subject to authorization, these accounts may be credited with ( 1) proceeds from the sale in Cambodia of Cambodian stocks and bonds imported from abroad or kept with an authorized bank in a dossier related to the country of the account holder; (2) proceeds from the sale in Cambodia of participations in corporations other than by purchases of stocks and bonds; ( 3) con- tractual or advance repayments of Cambodian stocks and bonds; (4) proceeds from the sale through an authorized notary of real estate or businesses located in Cambodia and in the pos- session of a nonresident account holder since January 1, 1955 or acquired by him either through inheritance or with the permission of the National Exchange Office; ( 5) repayment of loans granted to residents prior to January 1, 1955, or after that date with the approval of the National Exchange Office; and (6) transfers from another capital account related to the country of the account holder. Capital Accounts may be freely debited for ( 1) living expenses of the account holder or his fam i ly up to CR 1,000 a person a day, and up to a max imum of CR 50,000 monthly, and (2) expenses connected with the administration of foreign assets in Cambodia (stocks and bonds, buildings, land, e tc . ). Subject to authorization from the National Exchange Office, these accounts may be debited for ( 1) purchases in Cambodia of Cambodian stocks and bonds; (2) subscrip- tions to, or increases in the capital of, a Cam- bodian firm; ( 3) purchases through an authorized notary of title to real estate or businesses located in Cambodia; (4) loans in riels to residents; 58 ( 5) transfers to another capital account related to the coun try of the account holder; (6) living expenses in Cambodia of the account holder's employees if the account is held by a firm (cor- poration, bank, e tc . ); and (7) gifts to individuals and to social, cultural, and religious associations. Nonresident Accounts may be opened only upon authorization. They may be freely debited for (1) taxes in Cambodia, (2) miscellaneous accounting, correspondence expenses, etc., and ( 3) living expenses in Cambodia of the account holder and his family, up to CR 2,000 a day. All other operations through these accounts are sub- ject to individual licensing. Foreign Currency Accounts may be opened only upon authorization. They may be freely credited with foreign exchange transferred from abroad. Account holders may use balances on these accounts ( 1) to cover expenses abroad, such as those related to travel, missions, and the purchase of foreign merchandise, and (2) to cover expenses of any kind in Cambodia by con- verting balances on these accounts into riels on the Phnom-Penh exchange market. Internal Accounts of Nonresidents may be opened only upon authorization. Balances on these accounts may not be used for transfers abroad. The accounts may be freely credited with ( 1) pro- ceeds from the sale of foreign exchange on the Phnom-Penh market; (2) transfers from For- eigners' Accounts in Riels; ( 3) wages, salaries, allowances, and payments for expenses of Cam- bodian nationals employed by Cambodian firms and temporarily residing abroad; (4) income earned in Cambodia by account holders; ( 5) rede- posits of previous withdrawals; and (6) repay- ment of loans granted to residents out of balances in such accounts. The accounts may be freely debited for ( 1) living expenses in Cambodia of the account holder or his fam i ly, ( 2) administra- tive expenses related to the account holder's prop- erty in Cambodia, and (3) loans to residents. All other operations through these accounts require authorization. Imports and Import Payments The import of certain commodities is prohib- ited for reasons of health or security and that of certain other goods for protective reasons. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA An annual import program is prepared by the Ministry of Commerce. Twice a year, the National Bank of Cambodia places at the disposal of the Ministry a specific amount of foreign exchange to pay for the programed imports. Certain imports outside the import program (imports "sans devises" or imports "without exchange") are per- mitted if no official exchange is requested. Permitted imports are classified in seven lists. The list of "financeable" imports contains those commodities subject neither to a compensation charge (perequation) nor to a fixed resale price. Commodities in lists A and B are subject to com- pensation charges of CR 45 and CR 40 per U.S. dollar, respectively.2 For commodities in list C, the compensation charge is CR 35 per U.S. dol- lar.3 Commodities in list D require a compensa- tion charge of 10-50 per cent of the c.i.f. price. List E contains the commodities that are sold by SONEXIM to local distributors at fixed prices. There is also a list of commodities that may be imported on a barter basis ("en echanges com- CAMBODIA between the scholarship and the permissible exchange allocation. The allocation of foreign exchange for tourist travel and business travel has been suspended. The export of Cambodian currency is pro- hibited. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are effected by SONEXIM, in accordance with an annual export program pre- pared by the Ministry of Commerce. There is a special list of products that may be exported on a barter basis ("en echanges compenses"). Export proceeds are surrendered to the National Exchange Office. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered. Foreign tourists staying at all officially listed hotels are given coupons for CR 25 over and above the rate of CR 35 for each U.S. dollar sold (CR 2 over and above the rate of CR 10 for each French franc sold) for their room and res- taurant charges. Foreign tourists receive this premium also on purchases of souvenirs in stores designated by the Ministry of Tourism and for their expenses in group travel arranged by the Societe Khmere des Auberges Royales. Only authorized banks and approved hotels may pur- chase foreign exchange from travelers. Approved hotels must surrender to authorized banks the foreign exchange that they acquire from foreign travelers; the corresponding exchange may be credited to "Tourism SONEXIM Accounts." Such accounts may be used by the holder to import commodities. Hotel bills may be remitted in riels by foreign citizens on official travel upon producing a statement issued by their embassy certifying the payment of these expenses through its own funds held in clearing accounts or from the sale of foreign currencies. The import of Cambodian currency is pro- hibited. Foreign exchange must be declared by travelers when entering Cambodia; if imported by residents, such exchange must be surrendered within seven days from the day of entry into Cambodia. Capital All capital transfers require individual licenses. 60 No transfer abroad of proceeds from the sale of property by a foreigner to a foreigner is per- mitted. Foreigners who sell their property to Cam- bodians and leave Cambodia permanently may transfer initially up to 20 per cent of the pro- ceeds of the sale; up to 20 per cent of the remain- der may be authorized for transfer annually, when the total amount involved is small. Funds repre- senting the repayment of loans originally granted in foreign currency may be considered transfer- able income. Since May 31, 1956, all foreign investments have been subject to authorization from the Min- istry of Finance, which requires that a certain percentage of the capital of an enterprise should be reserved for Cambodian participation and that its employees should be Cambodians. Only invest- ments for the creation of activities recognized as useful to the economic development of the coun- try and not involving monopoly or special privi- lege may be authorized. Proceeds from the liquidation of authorized investments made after May 31, 1956 may be transferred in yearly installments not exceeding 20 per cent of the total investment. Up to 10 per cent of the pro- ceeds from the liquidation of investments made prior to May 31, 1956 may be authorized for transfer every year. Foreign capital invested after May 31, 1956 is guaranteed the same tax treatment that is applied to resident investments; in addition, special incen- tives (partial exemption from duties and taxes on reinvested profits, and on equipment goods or raw materials imported during the first year of opera- tion) may be accorded to foreign investment con- sidered as exceptionally useful to the Cambodian economy. There is a guarantee of 10-30 years against risks of nationalization or expropriation, and for a just and equitable indemnity in the event of nationalization or expropriation of investments. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Cambodia for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the National Bank of Cambodia; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1968 April 20. The compensation charges for imports of commodities in lists A and B were changed from CR 46 to CR 45 per U.S. dollar, and f rom CR 21.5 to CR 40 per U.S. dollar, respectively. For the same commodities when payable in French francs, the compensation charge was reduced f rom CR 6.2 to CR 6 and from CR 5.2 to CR 5, respectively, per French franc. June 27. The commission on sales of foreign banknotes was reduced f rom 3 per cent to 2 per cent. 61 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON1 Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Cameroon has been established with the Fund. The unit of cur- rency is the CFA Franc, which is officially main- tained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.2 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Cameroonian agency of the BCEAEC and commercial banks in Cameroon take place at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and in principle include a commission. Cameroon's exchange control measures do not apply to relations with (1) France and its Over- seas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) the other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Central African Republic, Chad, Congo (Brazzaville), Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, Mali, Mau- ritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Came- roon itself, are considered foreign countries, and financial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Direc- torate of Foreign Economic Relations and Inter- national Payments in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, which also supervises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or sale of foreign securities in Cameroon and inward and outward direct investment. The BCEAEC is authorized to collect, either directly or through the intermediary of the banks, any information neces- sary to compile the balance of payments statistics. 1 In view of changes that took place early in 1969 (see note at the end of this su rvey ), this survey presents the position on Janua ry 16, 1969. 2 The CFA f ranc circulating in Cameroon is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, Congo (Brazzaville), and Gabon. All exchange transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be effected through authorized inter- mediaries, i.e., the Postal Administration and authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Indus- try; applications must be submitted to the Direc- torate of Foreign Economic Relations and Inter- national Payments. Prescription of Currency Cameroon is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAEC maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Oper- ations Account country.3 Settlements with all other countries are usually made through corre- spondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements between Cameroon and Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are pro- hibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that main- tains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. The import from all sources outside the Central African Customs and Eco- nomic Union of certain goods (including flour, rice, pharmaceutical products, and matches) requires a prior authorization (autorisation prea- in addition an import license. Other imports from France and the Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area and from member states and associated states of the EEC may be made freely, and the former do not require a license. Some commodities are liberalized from all sources. Moreover, imports from any country made by industrialists for use in their own enterprises are also liberalized. Licenses for liberalized commod- ities are issued without restriction. All other imports are subject to licensing in accordance with an annual import program. This program and the amount of foreign exchange required to imple- ment it are determined by the Ministry of Com- merce and Industry and are discussed in a joint French-Cameroonian Committee. The allocations of the program are subsequently subdivided into quotas for West and East Cameroon. Under the global quotas established in the import program, goods originating in any country other than France, an Operations Account coun- try of the French Franc Area, or an EEC country may be imported. However, there is a separate quota for textiles from Asian countries. Import licenses are not issued until the importer has received his personal import quota from a technical committee headed by the Direc- tor of Commerce and Foreign Economic Rela- tions. For purposes of this distribution, registered importers are classified according to the value of their annual imports, although exchange may also be made available, under certain conditions, to newly established importers and to industrial enter- prises that are not registered importers. Import licenses for imports outside the import program, e.g., for gifts, items sent as guarantees, publicity articles, and supplies for foreign reli- gious missions, may be approved, provided that the importer undertakes not to sell the goods and only to use them for his personal requirements. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Import licenses entitle importers to pur- chase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the autho- rized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in CAMEROON the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Pay- ments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account coun- tries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 100,000 a person a year; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Cameroon must be surrendered. For business travel to for- eign countries, there is an allocation of the equiv- alent of CFAF 10,000 a day, subject to a maxi- mum of CFAF 300,000 a trip. The transfer of 20 per cent or 50 per cent of the salary of a foreigner working in Cameroon is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, pro- vided that the transfer takes place within one month of the pay period concerned. Travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 10,000 in BCEAEC bank- notes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BCEAEC banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Export transactions relat- ing to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exports to countries in the French Franc Area are free of license. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be col- lected within a month of the due date and pro- ceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered within a month after collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account 63 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected within a month of the due date and surrendered within a month of collection if received in foreign currency. Resident and non- resident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAEC, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Cameroon and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Emigrants to for- eign countries may transfer abroad up to the equivalent of CFAF 500,000. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, offering for sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Cameroon; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to pay- ments or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Cameroon, the control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Depart- ments and Territories (except the French Terri- tory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Ac- count. The provisions of Decree No. 67/DF/365, which introduced these special controls, have been suspended insofar as they are contrary to Decree No. 68/DF/460, on which the present exchange controls are based. All foreign securities, foreign exchange, and titles embodying claims on nonresi- dents must be deposited with an authorized inter- mediary, whether they belong to residents or non- residents. 64 Direct investments abroad4 require the prior approval of the Ministry of Commerce and Indus- try, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed prof- its; the full or partial liquidation of such invest- ments only requires a report ex post to the Minister of Commerce and Industry, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a par- ticipation that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Cameroon5 require prior declaration to the Minister of Com- merce and Industry, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration, dur- ing which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in Cameroon only requires reporting ex post to the Minister of Commerce and Industry, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct investment in Cameroon. Both the making and the liquidation of direct in- vestments, whether these are Cameroonian in- vestments abroad or foreign investments in Cameroon, must be reported to the Minister of Commerce and Industry within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Cameroon requires prior authorization by the Minister of Commerce and Industry, and must subsequently be reported to him. Exempt from authorization, however, and subject only to an ex post report, are operations in connection with ( 1) loans backed by a guar- antee from the Cameroonian Government, and ( 2) 4 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly con- trolled by persons in Cameroon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies of Came- roon.5 Including those made by companies in Cameroon that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of foreign companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution shares similar to securities whose issue, advertis- ing, or offering for sale in Cameroon has pre- viously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in Came- roon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Min- ister of Commerce and Industry and must subse- quently be reported to him. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization, and require only a report ex post: (a) loans con- stituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (b) loans directly connected with the ren- dering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of com- mercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign coun- tries, in which these persons or firms take part; (c) loans contracted by registered banks and credit institutions; and (d) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount out- standing of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower, their duration does not exceed 2 years, and the rate of interest does not exceed 6 per cent a year. Lending abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in Came- roon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Min- ister of Commerce and Industry and must subse- quently be reported to him. The following are, however, exempt from prior authorization and are subject only to a report ex post: (a) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (b) loans directly connected with the ren- dering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of com- mercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign coun- tries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (c) loans contracted by registered banks and credit institutions. An Investment Code promulgated in 1960 and revised in April 1964 establishes four categories CAMEROON of fiscal and other benefits which may be granted to both foreign and domestic firms undertaking approved new industrial or agricultural projects in Cameroon. The scope and duration of the benefits vary depending on the size of the invest- ment, the degree to which it helps implement the economic and social development plan, and its importance to national economic growth. Cate- gory A permits mainly duty-free entry of capital goods and raw materials required for manufac- turing and processing. Under Category B, firms may be entitled to the benefits of Category A and also to exemption for 5 years from the tax on industrial and commercial profits and from vari- ous other taxes and fees. Under Category C, large companies may conclude an "establishment agreement" with the Government, under which special conditions are agreed for the operations of the company and the nature and extent of tax concessions are determined. Normally, an "estab- lishment agreement" is valid for 25 years and defines also the legal, economic, and financial guarantees granted to the company, including the assurance of stable conditions for financial trans- fers and marketing of goods. Category D grants to firms mak ing investments of particular signifi- cance to the national economy the benefits of Category C, as well as a guarantee of stability of taxation for up to 25 years. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold jewelry in Cameroon. They require the approval of the Directorate of Mines to hold gold in any other form. Approval is normally given only to industrial users, including jewelers. Newly mined gold must be declared to the Directorate of Mines, which authorizes either its exportation or its sale to domestic industrial users. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Directorate of Mines and the Minister of Commerce and Industry, which is seldom granted for imports. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declara- tion. 65 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON Changes during 1968 January 1. With minor exceptions, imports originating in and shipped from EEC countries other than France were freed from quantitative restrictions. January 6. Order No. 38/MINCI established technical procedures for the application of Law No. 67/LF/22 of June 12, 1967. January 16. Decree No. 68/DF/10 was issued to implement Article 31 (relating to small busi- ness) of the Investment Code. February 9. Circular No. 4/MINCI/SG/ DREERI announced the import program for 1968. The importation of 5 groups of commodities was prohibited from all sources. Some 18 com- modities or groups of commodities were added to the list of imports subject to restrictive licensing from all sources. May 3. Circular No. 20/MINCI/DREERI amended Circular No. 4 by revoking Annex II concerning prohibited imports and by adding the following to the Annex III list of commodities subject to prior authorization: meat, bananas, coconuts, pineapple, cola nuts, handicrafts, and candy. May 27. Notice to Importers No. 1/MINCI/ DREERI was issued concerning imports of com- modities subject to prior authorization. June 1. Decree No. 68/DF/213, by suspend- ing any contrary provisions of Decree No. 67/DF/ 365 of August 21, 1967 and its implementing regulations, re-established temporary exchange controls in relations with foreign countries. It prohibited, except with the prior approval of the Minister of Commerce and Industry, all payments and transfers by residents to foreign countries, or, within Cameroon, in favor of a nonresident; all imports and exports of gold, means of pay- ment, and securities; and all transactions and transfers leading to the constitution of assets abroad by a resident, or to the holding of foreign means of payment in Cameroon by a resident. All claims on foreign countries or nonresidents resulting from exports, earnings, or income had to be collected and, where appropriate, surren- dered. All settlements with foreign countries or nonresidents had to take place through authorized intermediaries. 66 June 1. Order No. 021/MINCI defined foreign countries as all countries and territories which do not form an integral part of Cameroon, but pro- vided that the new exchange controls would not apply to the countries of the French Franc Area. The order also contained definitions of "resi- dents" and "nonresidents," listed the types of payments that could be made freely, through an authorized intermediary, to foreign countries, and introduced an exchange allocation of the equiva- lent to CFAF 100,000 a person a trip for travel to foreign countries. The export by travelers to foreign countries of BCEAEC banknotes was limited to CFAF 100,000 a person a trip, but the amount of such banknotes taken out was deducted from the travel allocation. Payments up to CFAF 25,000 could be made freely for any pur- pose. All payments between Cameroon and for- eign countries had to be made through the BCEAEC, the Postal Administration, or autho- rized banks. All amounts subject to surrender had to be collected within one month of the due date; the due date for export receipts had in principle to be within 180 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination. If payment was received in foreign currency, this had to be sur- rendered on the exchange market within one month after collection. Nonresident accounts in Cameroon could not be credited with CFA bank- notes. June 10. A Notice to Exporters reintroduced the requirement of an exchange commitment (engagement de change) for exports to foreign countries. December 3. Decree No. 68/DF/460 restated a number of provisions of Decree No. 68/DF/213, which it revoked and replaced. Furthermore, any contrary provisions of Decree No. 67/DF/365 of August 21, 1967 were suspended. It also intro- duced a deposit requirement for foreign securities, foreign exchange, and foreign claims held in Cam- eroon; made authorized intermediaries responsible for the proper application of the exchange con- trol regulations; prescribed the domiciliation of import and export transactions; and subjected to control by the Minister of Commerce and Indus- try the claims and liabilities in francs and foreign currencies of banks and financial institutions established in Cameroon. December 11. Order No. 794/MINCI was ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution issued to implement Decree No. 68/DF/460. The Order restated a number of provisions of Decree No. 68/DF/213 and Order No. 021/MINCI, both of June 1, 1968. It also stated that its provi- sions would not apply to France and the Opera- tions Account countries. Exchange for travel to foreign countries could only be granted up to an annual allocation to be established by the Minis- ter of Commerce and Industry. Residents and nonresidents holding in Cameroon foreign securi- ties, foreign exchange, or any title representing a claim on a foreign country or a nonresident had to deposit these within one month with an autho- rized depository. The order did not provide for the making of any payments to foreign countries without submission of supporting documents. NOTE. —The following changes took place early in 1969: January 16. Circular No. 1/RC/MINCI pro- vided that payments for imports from foreign countries up to CFAF 25,000 could be made freely, even if no import license existed. Forward cover could be obtained only for import pay- ments and would be prohibited until further regulations were issued. Spot exchange for imports could be obtained only for financing under letter of credit, and not earlier than eight days before payment was due or, if a letter of credit was opened, eight days before shipment. The general authorization given to approved intermediaries by Order No. 794/MINCI to sell foreign exchange for a number of transactions could be exercised by them only subsequent to the verification and approval (visa) of the sup- porting documents by the staff of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Resident and nonresident travelers could import any amount of means of payment denomi- nated in foreign currency as well as any amount of BCEAEC banknotes and banknotes issued in CAMEROON Operations Account countries. Nonresident trav- elers departing from Cameroon were authorized to re-export the unused foreign currency they had previously imported and could reconvert into foreign currencies BCEAEC banknotes up to CFAF 50,000. In addition, resident and nonresi- dent travelers could take out any other French Franc Area banknotes up to the equivalent of CFAF 10,000. An allowance of the equivalent of CFAF 100,000 a person a year was set for tourist travel to foreign countries. An allocation for business travel abroad was fixed at the equiv- alent of CFAF 10,000 a day, subject to a maxi- mum of CFAF 300,000 a trip. Emigrants could transfer up to the equivalent of CFAF 500,000 a person. Rents could be transferred once a year. Profits could be transferred as shown in the bal- ance sheet and other accounts. January 16. Instruction No. 1/RC/MINCI established procedures for the domiciliation of import transactions, payments for imports, the domiciliation of export transactions, and for con- trols over the repatriation of export proceeds. Forward purchases of foreign currency were lim- ited to import transactions; the commodities for which cover could be obtained were to be speci- fied by the Minister of Commerce and Industry. January 16. Circular No 2/RC/MINCI estab- lished procedures for the establishment and oper- ation by nonresidents of Foreign Accounts in Francs and foreign dossiers for securities. With minor exceptions, all overdrafts on the accounts mentioned and all advances to nonresidents required the approval of the Minister of Com- merce and Industry. January 16. Instruction No. 2/RC/MINCI established standard allocations for the transfer abroad of wages and salaries earned by foreign workers in Cameroon. A bachelor could transfer 20 per cent of his monthly earnings, and a mar- ried man 50 per cent, provided that his fam i ly resided in his country of origin. 67 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.822021 gram of fine gold per Canadian dollar or Can$ 1.08108 = US$1. Canada has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments. On March 25, 1952, Canada notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely. Import licenses are required only for a few agricultural items, including certain cereals, for natural gas, and for material and equipment for the production or use of atomic energy; for some of the agricultural items, such as certain dairy products, licenses are generally not being issued. Commercial imports from any source of certain commodities are generally prohibited; these in- clude oleomargarine, used automobiles, second- hand aircraft, certain periodicals, and goods of Rhodesian origin. Exports and Export Proceeds The surrender of the proceeds of exports is not required, and exchange receipts are freely disposable. For supply reasons, the export of a few commodities to all destinations is under export control. For security reasons, the export of cer- tain specified commodities to all destinations except the United States is under export control. All exports to CMEA countries, mainland China, etc., are subject to control; certain nonstrategic goods, when of Canadian origin, may be exported to these destinations under general permit. The export of all goods to Rhodesia, other than medi- cal, information, and educational equipment and material, is prohibited. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No requirements are imposed on exchange pay- ments for, or exchange receipts from, invisibles. Individual travelers leaving Canada may not take out more than Can$5 in silver coins. 68 Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Certain guidelines have been issued to chartered banks and nonbank financial institu- tions with respect to their foreign assets and lia- bilities and to companies incorporated in Canada with respect to transfers of capital to overseas countries. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Under the Emergency Gold Mining Assistance Act of 1948, all mines receiving subsidies are required to sell their newly mined gold to the Royal Canadian Mint. The M int sells in the free market all gold it buys f rom subsidized Canadian producers; sales are made only to established wholesale deal- ers, including several refiner-processors in Can- ada and the United States who also engage in trading. Exports of gold are subject to the follow- ing conditions: ( 1) the sale of gold to CMEA countries, mainland China, etc., is subject to con- trol and requires a license from the Department of Trade and Commerce; (2) gold that originated outside Canada may only be re-exported to a country other than the United States when cov- ered by a permit issued by the Minister of Trade and Commerce under the authority of the Export and Import Permits Act; ( 3) owing to the general embargo on trade with Rhodesia, no gold may be imported from or exported to Rhodesia. Authorized dealers in gold have been requested not to permit purchases of gold in Canada by unauthorized U.S. and U.K. residents. Commer- cial imports of articles containing a minor quan- tity of gold, such as watches, are unrestricted and free of license. Changes during 1968 January 21. The Bank of Canada announced that, following discussions with the chartered banks, it had been agreed that the banks would discourage the use of bank credit to facilitate abnormal transfers of funds abroad by Canadian subsidiaries of foreign companies, and would also discourage the use of bank credit by such com- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution panics to meet requirements in Canada that had in the past normally been met by the parent com- panies. During August, this request to the char- tered banks was withdrawn. March 4. The chartered banks and other finan- cial institutions were asked not, for the time being, to facilitate swap deposit transactions involving sales of Canadian dollars for U.S. dollars for the purpose of placing the latter in Europe at rates higher than those prevailing in Canada. Canadian investors were requested to refrain f rom entering into swapped deposit transactions and not to renew existing swap contracts. On June 12, the Minister of Finance announced withdrawal of this guideline. March 7. It was announced that Canada had been exempted from the U.S. balance of pay- ments measures affec t ing capital flows that were administered by the Department of Commerce and the Federal Reserve System (Canada already enjoyed an exemption from the U.S. Interest Equalization Tax for new issues). Canada would take any steps necessary to ensure that the exemp- tion did not result in Canada being used as a pass-through by which U.S. investors transferred unauthorized funds to third countries. In addi- tion, the Government announced its intention of investing its entire holdings of U.S. dollars (apart from working balances) in nonliquid U.S. Gov- ernment securities. March 15. Trading in gold by banks and other dealers was suspended. Subsequently, the suspen- sion was relaxed in respect of the buying and sell- ing of gold overseas by brokers and in respect of domestic sales for industrial and artistic use. April 3. The suspension of gold trading was lifted. It was announced that for the time being the Canadian Mint would sell in the free market the gold bought from subsidized Canadian pro- ducers. No change in the present arrangements affecting gold producers was contemplated. Pro- ducers could sell in the free market if they wished to do so, but those who wished to qualify for assistance under the Emergency Gold Mining Assistance Act must continue to sell to the Mint as the Act required. The Mint would continue to buy gold from Canadian producers at US$35 an ounce converted into Canadian dollars at current exchange rates. Canada would refrain from selling monetary gold to private buyers and from buying CANADA gold for the purpose of augmenting monetary reserves. Canadian gold dealers were asked not to "knowingly permit" purchases of gold in Can- ada by unauthorized U.S. and U.K. residents. May 3. The Minister of Finance announced guidelines to control the net foreign position of Canadian chartered banks in countries other than Canada and the United States. A Canadian bank's total foreign currency claims on residents of countries other than Canada and the United States were not to rise above the level outstanding at February 29, 1968, unless the increase were accompanied by an equal increase in its total for- eign currency liabilities to residents of countries other than the United States and Canada. Any decline in such foreign currency liabilities was to be matched by an equal reduction in foreign cur- rency claims outside Canada and the United States as quickly as the liquidity of such assets would permit. Each bank could only allow an increase in U.S. dollar liabilities to U.S. residents from the level outstanding at the end of February 1968, if the increase were fully matched by the sum of ( 1) the increase from that date in the bank's U.S. dollar claims on residents of Canada, (2) the decrease from that date in the bank's U.S. dollar liabilities to residents of Canada, and (3) the decrease from that date in the bank's own spot position in U.S. dollars. July 24. The Minister of Finance requested nonbank financial institutions to manage their a f fa i rs in such a way that for each institution total foreign currency claims on residents of countries other than Canada and the United States (de- posits, loans, and portfolio investments in bonds and stocks) would not rise above the existing level, unless the increase accompanied an equal increase in total foreign currency liabilities to residents of countries other than Canada and the United States or arose from net earnings of foreign branches or subsidiaries. September 19. The Government announced new guidelines to ensure that investments outside Canada and the United States by Canadian- incorporated companies other than financial insti- tutions conformed to conditions outlined when Canada was exempted from the U.S. balance of payments measures. Companies were asked to avoid starting investment programs in continental Western Europe or increasing their assets there 69 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA in any way involving a transfer of capital funds or other forms of financing from Canada or the United States, unless firm commitments existed or an investment was shown likely to bring unusu- ally large and early benefits to Canada's trade and payments position and could not be adequately financed by overseas sources. Companies were also asked to exercise restraint in new investments in other developed countries abroad, and to give priority to investments contributing importantly to an improvement in Canada's trade and pay- ments. The restraints were not intended to inhibit investment in less developed countries or to restrict the financing of Canadian exports. Com- panies incorporated in Canada would be asked to provide quarterly information on international capital transfers made and on plans for transfers overseas of more than Can$200,000 annua l ly for 1968 and 1969. December 17. The United States and Canada agreed that the understandings between the two countries on Canadian reserves did not require that Canada's reserve level be limited to any par- ticular figure, and recognized Canada's need for flexibility with respect to reserve levels in order to accommodate the adaptation of monetary pol- icy to the changing needs of the domestic econ- omy, seasonal factors, and other influences of a temporary nature. December 20. The Government of Canada, by Order-in-Council, extended its previous restric- tions on relations with Rhodesia so as to imple- ment UN Security Council Resolution No. 253 (68) of May 29, 1968, providing for comprehensive sanctions against trade and financial relations with Rhodesia. 70 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC1 Exchange System No par value for the currency of the Central African Republic has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 — 0.02 French franc, giving the relation- ship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.2 Exchange transac- tions in French francs between the Banque Cen- trale des Etats de 1'Afrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. The Central African Republic's exchange con- trol measures do not apply to ( 1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the A fa rs and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, Chad, Congo (Brazzaville), Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Sene- gal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except the Central African Republic itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control The Office of Foreign Financial Relations in the Ministry of Finance supervises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or sale of foreign securities in the Central African Republic, and inward and outward direct investment. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance, who has delegated some of his approval authority to the authorized banks. All payments and receipts between the Central African 1 In view of certain changes that took place early in 1969 (see note at the end of th is su rvey ), th is survey presents the position on February 3, 1969. 2 The CFA f r a nc c i rcu la t ing in the Cen t ral A f r i c an Repub l ic is issued by the Banque Centrale des E ta ts de 1'Afrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, Chad, Congo (Brazza- v i l l e ), and Gabon. Republic and foreign countries that are made through banks or postal channels are registered, for statistical purposes only, by the BCEAEC, through the intermediary of the institution execut- ing the transfer; the BCEAEC also addresses inquiries to the principal firms and agencies con- cerning inward and outward payments made in other manners, particularly by the offsetting of claims and debts. All exchange transactions relat- ing to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of Foreign Trade in the Ministry of Foreign and Domestic Trade, except those for gold, which are granted by the BCEAEC. Prescription of Currency The Central African Republic is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAEC maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account coun- tries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other countries are usually made in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments The import of coffee, palm oil, groundnut oil, potatoes, bu t ter, cheese, and eggs from countries other than the member states of the Central Afri- can Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) is not authorized unless local production of these commodities is inadequate. Imports of enamel- 71 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC ware from all sources, and imports of certain types of footwear and paints not originating in a member country of the UDEAC, may be made only in given ratios to purchases of the local product, and imports of alcoholic beverages from all sources require an import authorization from the Ministry of the Interior, for health reasons. Imports of firearms are prohibited from all sources. All other imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely and with- out an import license. All other imports from EEC countries also are free from quantitative restric- tions. Imports from all non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to licensing but not to quotas, import licenses being required for statistical purposes only. There are special ceilings for imports of textile piece goods from low-wage countries. All import transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import license entitles importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invis- ibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Resident tourists traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equiv- alent to CFAF 100,000 a year for each person; any foreign exchange remaining a f ter return to the Central African Republic must be surrendered. For business travel to foreign countries, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 10,000 a person a day, subject to a maxi- mum of CFAF 150,000 a trip. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in the Central Afr ican Republic is permitted upon pre- sentation of the appropriate pay voucher, pro- 72 vided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 50,000 in BCEAEC banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by any other ins t i tu te of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BCEAEC banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on en try; they may reconvert up to CFAF 50,000 in BCEAEC banknotes into for- eign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports of cotton, coffee, corn, tobacco, peanuts, palm oil, meat, and diamonds require a license. All other exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. All exports to countries outside the French Franc Area require licenses, which are issued freely. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatriated within one month from the due date; the latter generally must fall within 180 days of shipment. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Operations Account country must be surrendered. All export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amoun ts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected within a month of the due date and, if received in foreign currency, surrendered within a month of the date of receipt. Resident and non- resident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAEC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue main- ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank- notes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Capital Capital movements between the Central African Republic and France, Monaco, and other Oper- ations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special con tro ls-(add i t ional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, offering for sale, or introduction of foreign securities in the Central African Repub- lic; these controls relate to the transactions them- selves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in the Central African Republic, the control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Direct investments abroad 3 require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the fu ll or partial liquidation of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance unless the operation involves the relin- quishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct invest- ments in the Central African Republic 4 must be declared to the Minister of Finance unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration, dur ing which he may request the post- ponement of the projects submitted to him. The 3 Including those made through the intermediary of fore ign companies that are directly or ind irec t ly con- trolled by persons in the Central A f r ican Repub l ic and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of com- panies in the Central A f r ican Republic. 4 Inc lud ing those made by companies in the Central A f r ican Repub l ic that are directly or ind irec t ly under fore ign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries in the Central A f r ican Repub l ic of foreign companies. CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC fu ll or partial liquidation of direct investments in the Central African Republic must also be declared to the Minister, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct investment in the Central African Republic. Both the making and the liqui- dating of direct investments, whether these are Central African Republic investments abroad or foreign investments in the Central African Repub- lic, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Central African Republic requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with ( 1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Central African Republic Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering ior sale in the Central African Republic has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in the Cen- tral African Republic, or by branches or subsid- iaries in the Central African Republic of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between the Central African Republic and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The con- tracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, 73 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC must be declared to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans con- tracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 500,000 or less. Lending abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in the Central Afr ican Republic, or by branches or sub- sidiaries in the Central Afr ican Republic of jurid- ical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: ( 1) loans granted by registered banks and (2) other loans, when the total amount ou ts tand ing of these loans does not ex- ceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The mak ing of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations w i th in 20 days of the operation except when the amount of the loan granted abroad by the lender is less than CFAF 500,000. Under Law No. 62/355 of February 19, 1963 and UDEAC Decision No. 18/65 of December 14, 1965, industrial, tourist, agricultural, and min- ing enterprises (both foreign and domestic) es- tablished in the Central African Republic are granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on the import of specified equ ipmen t; in addition, certain enterprises receive exemption f rom direct taxes on specified income. The law also provides for three categories of preferential treatment, in accordance with which fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in new enterprises or in the expan- sion of existing ones in most sectors of the economy, except the commercial sector. Preferen- tial treatment A applies to enterprises whose activ- ity and market are limited to the territory of the Central African Republic; it is granted for a period of up to 10 years. Preferential treatment B applies to enterprises whose activity and market include the territory of two or more states of the Equatorial Customs Union. Preferential treatment C, which contains the most favorable provisions, is reserved for enterprises of prime importance to the country's economic development; it provides for stabilization of their fiscal charges for up to 25 years. 74 Requests for approval for preferential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of Industry, who is the Chairman of the Investment Commission which considers the application. If a positive deci- sion has been given by the Commission, the pro- posed authorization is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatments A and C are granted by decree issued by the Council of Minis- ters. Preferential treatment B is granted by an act of the Board of Directors of the Equatorial Cus- toms Union upon the recommendation of the Council of Ministers. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in the Central African Repub- lic. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the BCEAEC, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Trea- su ry or the BCEAEC and ( 2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles containing a minor quan- tity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1968 January 1. Imports of printed piece goods from low-wage countries were discontinued. February 7. Order No. 058 defined the func- tions of the Office of Foreign Financial Relations. June 1. With minor exceptions, imports of all commodities originating in and shipped from EEC countries other than France were liberalized by virtue of Order No. 17 of June 19. June 3. Ordinance No. 68/019, by suspending any contrary provisions of Ordinance No. 67/54 of August 1, 1967 and of the regulations issued for its implementation, re-established temporary exchange controls in relations with foreign countries. June 6. Decree No. 68/159 defined foreign countries as all countries other than the Central African Republic, France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries. It also listed the types of payments to foreign countries that could be made freely through an authorized bank or the Postal Adm in is tra t ion. The decree introduced ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution an exchange allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 a person a trip for travel to foreign countries. The export by travelers to foreign coun- tries of BCEAEC banknotes was limited to CFAF 50,000 a person a trip. Nonresident accounts in the Central Afr ican Republic could not be credited with BCEAEC banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other insti- tute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. June 6. Decree No. 68/158 delegated the approval authority in exchange control matters to the Minister of Finance. June 14. Ordinance No. 68/027 introduced an exchange tax of 2.5 per cent (with a m in imum of CFAF 500) on all exchange transactions, capital movements, and foreign payments as defined by Article 1 of Decree No. 68/159. The follow- ing were exempt: operations of less than CFAF 12,500; operations connected with exports to countries outside the French Franc Area; exchange allocations to travelers going to coun- tries outside the French Franc Area; and settle- ments for government expenditures in countries outside the French Franc Area. July 1. Order No. 0100/MF/CT appointed three commercial banks as authorized banks. July 13. Decree No. 68/177 required a prior authorization for imports from any source of products and foodstuffs similar to those produced in the Central African Republic. October 23. Ordinance No. 68/54 revoked Ordinances Nos. 68/019 and 68/027 and the regulations issued for their implementation. This action abolished the temporary exchange controls and the 2% per cent exchange tax. November 27. Ordinance No. 68/063 intro- duced new exchange control regulations in respect of foreign countries and suspended any contrary provisions of Ordinance No. 67/54 and of the regulations issued for its implementation. All import and export transactions relating to foreign countries had to be domiciled with authorized banks. The ordinance prohibited, except with the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, all pay- ments and transfers by residents to foreign coun- tries, or within the Central African Republic, in favor of a nonresident; all imports and exports of gold, means of payment, and securities; and all CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC transactions and transfers leading to the constitu- tion of assets abroad by a resident, or to the hold- ing of foreign means of payment in the Central African Republic by a resident. All claims on foreign countries or nonresidents resulting from exports, earnings, or income had to be collected and, where appropriate, surrendered. November 27. Decree No. 68/324 listed the types of payments that could be made freely, through an authorized bank or the Postal Admin- istration, to foreign countries. Nonresident accounts in the Central African Republic could not be credited with BCEAEC banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other insti- tute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. All amounts subject to surrender had to be collected within a month of the due date; any amounts collected in foreign currencies had to be surrendered to authorized banks within a month of collection. Such payments could not be collected in banknotes or to the debit of a postal checking account in the Central Afri- can Republic. The due date for export receipts had in principle to be within 180 days after arrival of the commodities. The decree also contained definitions of "foreign countries," "residents," and "nonresidents." Foreign countries were defined as on June 3, above. December 4. Order No. 202/MF provided that resident and nonresident travelers could not take out more than CFAF 50,000 in BCEAEC bank- notes, or the equivalent in French banknotes or banknotes of an institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury (CFAF 5,000 for those going abroad for less than 24 hou r s ). Imports by resident or nonresident travelers of BCEAEC banknotes, French bank- notes, and banknotes of other Operations Account countries would be free, as would be imports of any means of payment denominated in a foreign currency. An exchange allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 100,000 a person a year was introduced for tourist travel to foreign countries, and one of up to CFAF 10,000 a day (subject to a maxi- mum of CFAF 150,000 a tr ip) for business travel to foreign countries. December 11. Circular No. 1343/MF estab- lished approval procedures for payments and transfers to foreign countries. Import and export authorizations for gold would be issued by the 75 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC BCEAEC. Payments up to CFAF 12,500 could be made freely, without indication of their pur- pose. The circular also established the terms on which foreign exchange could be purchased for- ward. This would only be allowed for import pay- ments but not until the detailed regulations were announced. The circular also established proce- dures for payments for imports. Nonresident trav- elers could upon departure reconvert up to CFAF 50,000 into foreign currency. No resident or nonresident traveler could take out more than the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 in French bank- notes. Foreign workers could transfer their entire net salary abroad, within three months of receipt. December 13. The Ministry of Finance issued Circular No. 1349/MF/CT to the authorized banks, concerning Foreign Accounts in Francs and foreign dossiers for securities. All overdrafts on Foreign Accounts in Francs and in general all advances to nonresidents required prior approval. December 13. Ordinance No. 68/065 intro- duced an exchange tax of 2% per cent (subject to a minimum of CFAF 500) on most exchange transactions with, and payments to, countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. In addition to payments to the countries mentioned, the following were exempt: (1) transactions of less than CFAF 12,500; (2) all operations relating to foreign exchange receipts; ( 3) foreign currency allowances for travel to countries other than France, Monaco, or Operations Account countries; (4) government expenditures in countries other than France, Monaco, or the Operations Account countries; (5) transactions of international organizations and embassies; and (6) transactions carried out with the member countries of the EEC. December 18. Order No. 209/MF/CT appointed three commercial banks as authorized banks. NOTE. —The following changes took place early in 1969: January 4. Circular No. 10/MF/CAB con- tained detailed instructions concerning the domi- ciliation of import transactions and regarding import payments. January 9. Circular No. 45/MF established procedures for the domiciliation of export trans- actions and for controls over the repatriation of export proceeds. January 20. Circular No. 83/MF amended Circulars Nos. 10 and 45. January 20. Circular No. 84/MF provided that monthly transfers of family remittances could be made as follows: for traders and independent businessmen up to one twenty-fourth of the profits declared during the last calendar year; and for nonsalaried private persons who cannot demon- strate such profits, CFAF 25,000 for each bene- ficiary. February 3. Order No. 42/MF/CT completed Order No. 209/MF/CT by providing that trans- fers of foreign exchange could only be made through the intermediary of an authorized bank established in the Central African Republic. 76 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.149297 gram of fine gold per Ceylon Rupee or Cey Rs 5.95237 = US$1. Exchange rates are based on the fixed sterling- Ceylon rupee rate (Cey Rs 14.29 = ,£1) and the rates for other currencies against sterling in Lon- don. Another effective exchange rate arises from transactions in Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificates (henceforth called certificates), which exporters of nontraditional exports (i.e., exports other than tea, rubber, and major coconut prod- ucts) and certain other earners or recipients of foreign exchange are entitled to receive upon sur- render of foreign exchange earned. Nonresident travelers when converting foreign exchange into Ceylon rupees at the official rate may also receive either corresponding certificates or their equivalent in rupees. The certificates are denominated in Cey- lon rupees and are issued in amounts equivalent at the official rate to the foreign exchange surren- dered; they are transferable within 30 days of the date of issue. Additional certificates are sold by the Central Bank of Ceylon upon demand at a price of Cey Rs 44 per certificate with a face value of Cey Rs 100; such certificates are not transferable. Certificates with a face value corresponding at the official rate to the amount of foreign exchange required must be surrendered as supporting docu- ments when purchasing foreign exchange for pay- ments in respect of specified imports and invis- ibles. The Central Bank deals in certificates for up to four months forward, at Cey Rs 45 selling and Cey Rs 43 buying per Cey Rs 100 certificate; transactions are permitted only when relating to anticipated genuine payments and receipts in for- eign exchange to which the certificate requirements or privileges are applicable. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Depart- ment of Exchange Control of the Central Bank of Ceylon, as agent of the Government. A foreign exchange budget and an import program are drawn up annually. All remittances of foreign exchange in Ceylon must be made through banks authorized to carry out operations in foreign currencies in accordance with the exchange control regulations prescribed by the Controller of Exchange. Remit- tances may also be made through post offices, under permits issued by the Controller of Exchange. Import and export licensing is handled by the Controller of Imports and Exports, but licenses for certain industrial imports are issued by the Actual Users Division of the Ministry of Industries and Fisheries. Prescription of Currency Ceylon is a member of the Sterling Area, and the regulations prescribing the currencies for settle- ments with other countries are similar to the regu- lations of other Sterling Area countries. Payments to the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency; and receipts from the Sterling Area may be accepted in any Sterling Area currency. Settlements with ten countries with which Ceylon has bilateral payments agreements,1 with the United Arab Republic, and (for certain transactions only) with Pakistan must be made through the relevant special accounts. Payments to all other countries except Rhodesia may be made by crediting sterling or Ceylon rupees to a sterling External Account or an External Rupee Account, or in the currency of the creditor country. Receipts from all other countries except Rhodesia may be accepted in sterling or Ceylon rupees from a sterling External Account or an External Rupee Account, in any specified currency2 other than a Sterling Area cur- rency, or in any nonspecified, non-Sterling Area currency marketable in the United Kingdom, i.e., freely exchangeable for sterling. Transactions involving deviations from the general regulations require the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may be held in Ceylon by banks, corporations, or persons residing abroad. 1 Ceylon has bilateral payments agreements with Bul- garia, ma in land China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Rumania, Syrian Arab Republic, and U.S.S.R. 2 The specified currencies are listed as the currency of any country of the Sterling Area, and Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 77 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON Transfers of balances in these accounts to Sterling Area Accounts or External Accounts require approval. Blocked Accounts are used for holding funds that may not be transferred abroad and that are owned by nonresidents, repatriates, and emigrants. Such funds, unless they originate from payments for imports, may be used for investment in Ceylon in prescribed securities. Proceeds from the liquida- tion of such investments must be credited to Blocked Accounts. Also retained in Blocked Accounts is a proportion of local currency earnings derived from exhibition of foreign-owned films, if the takings exceed the amount specified in the import license; such retained funds may be used by the owner for making films in Ceylon. Moratorium Accounts are accounts opened with exchange control approval in the names of non- residents to which may be credited all invest- ment income that was subject to the 1964-68 moratorium on transfers of profits, dividends, interest, and other investment income. Existing balances on private nonresident accounts (other than Blocked Accounts) representing investment income that arose prior to the moratorium have also been transferred to Moratorium Accounts. Imports and Import Payments All imports of goods originating in or shipped from Rhodesia are prohibited. Except for imports by the Food Commissioner's Department, direct imports by other government departments, and certain minor imports (such as trade samples, gifts, and books up to specified amounts), imports require individual licenses unless they are covered by a general license. Imports are divided into two groups—the A category and the B category. Imports in the A category broadly comprise basic necessities and imports of government departments and nonindus- trial government corporations. The B category includes all remaining imports. It is subdivided into two groups: approximately 350 commodities (mainly raw materials and producer goods) may be imported under open general license; other imports are subject to quota restrictions and require individual licenses. The value and com- position of imports in the A category and of imports under quota in the B category are estab- lished by an annual import program. Imports of 78 many nonessential or locally produced items are either prohibited or considerably restricted. The right to import is restricted to government- sponsored corporations and registered importers. Imports of specified commodities3 are restricted to government or state corporations, the Cooperative Wholesale Establishment, or Lanka Salu Sala Ltd.; these are referred to as "reserved items." In order to allocate quotas, applicants for import licenses are divided into three groups: (1) actual users of industrial raw materials, machinery, etc., (2) those who import other goods for their own use and not for resale, and (3) established importers who import goods for trading purposes.4 An authorized dealer may approve an applica- tion to remit foreign exchange or to credit a non- resident account when the applicant furnishes, or undertakes to furnish, evidence of importation and of the cost of the goods together with a valid importer's and exchange control copy of the import license. Payment for imports in the B cate- gory requires, in addition to the rupee equivalent of the foreign exchange involved, surrender of certificates with a face value equal to the rupee paymen t ;5 imports in the A category do not require the surrender of certificates. Imports under open general license are allowed only against let- ters of credit6 and require a certificate forward purchase contract, or the surrender of certificates, to the full value of the letter of credit at the time of its opening. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to exchange control permission and, with certain exceptions, require surrender of certificates corre- 3 These include rice, wheat, flour (except corn flour), unrefined sugar, refined sugar, red onion, Maldive fish, dried fish, cumin seed, lentils, dhal, cement, fodder, caus- tic soda, cotton yarn, newsprint and other paper products, petroleum products, and textiles and manufac tures of tex- tile materials. 4 On January 1, 1969, the import of foodstuffs was restricted to importers of Ceylonese nationality. 5 Certain imports financed by foreign aid are exempt. Goods on the open general license list that are imported under commodity aid programs require a special license bearing a license fee of 15 per cent of the value specified in the license, but are exempt from the surrender of certificates. B category imports financed by loans from in terna t ional ins t i tu t ions are also exempt from certificates but require a special license bearing a fee of 20 per cent. 6 An exception to this rule are books and periodicals imported for the bona fide use of the importer. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution spending to the full amount of the foreign pay- ment. Exempt from surrender of certificates are (1) certain official and semiofficial travel expen- ditures abroad,7 (2) expenditures for approved courses of study abroad, (3) remittances abroad for family maintenance, (4) certain foreign exchange expenditures for tourist and export promotion, other than business travel, (5) expen- ditures for approved pilgrimages, (6) certain prov- ident fund contributions and life insurance pre- miums, (7) pensions and the final remittance on retirement of provident and pension funds, (8) expenditures of foreign embassies, official interna- tional organizations, and foreign diplomatic per- sonnel, and (9) other expenditures abroad specif- ically exempted from the certificate surrender requirement by the Controller of Exchange. Cer- tain accumulated profits and dividends are being released for transfer abroad, over a two-year period, subject to surrender of certificates. The remittance of life insurance premiums on policies in foreign currencies purchased by non- nationals residing temporarily in Ceylon is per- mitted, and such policies are considered as part of the assets available to them on retirement. Foreign exchange for tourist travel abroad is only granted for furloughs of foreign nationals. Business travel is generally limited to travel for the promotion of traditional and industrial exports and of tourism, and exchange up to a maximum of «£ stg. 10 a day for a maximum period of 21 days is allowed in such cases. Exchange for pilgrimages is granted on the basis of one pilgrimage in a lifetime. Exchange for educational expenses is made available only for certain courses of study that will be of positive value to the country and that are not available in Ceylon. For study in educational insti- tutions in "Asian group" countries,8 exchange up to a maximum of Cey Rs 750 a month is allowed. For study in the United Kingdom, foreign exchange 7 When met out of the budget allocations for a govern- ment department or ministry, a state corporation, or an institution exempt from the operation of the certificate scheme. 8 The "Asian group" is listed as Aden, Afghan is tan, the East Afr ican region, Brunei, Burma, Hong Kong, India, Indochina, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Malaysia, Pakistan, Persian Gulf Sheikdoms, Saudi Arabia, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Turkey, and United Arab Republic. CEYLON is made available at «£ stg. 45 a month for under- graduate studies, and «£ stg. 60 a month for post- graduate studies, plus actual fees and cost of books. For study in educational institutions else- where (other than the United States and Canada), the maximum allowable is «£ stg. 53 for under- graduate and «£ stg. 70 for postgraduate studies; the maxima for the United States and Canada are US$225 and US$240 for undergraduate and post- graduate studies, respectively. For travel and other expenses for medical rea- sons, exchange is authorized if a certificate is pro- duced from a medical specialist in Ceylon and supported by the Director of Health Services that equally effective treatment cannot be obtained in Ceylon; the amount authorized will depend on the estimated cost, as certified by the specialist. Indian and Pakistani nationals are permitted to remit for family maintenance a maximum of Cey Rs 750 a month or one third of their gross monthly income, whichever is less. Other foreign nationals are permitted to remit «£ stg. 85 a month for a wife, £ stg. 60 for a child going to school, «£ stg. 25 for other children, and «£ stg. 45 a month less monthly income abroad for an employed child, up to a maximum of two thirds of the gross monthly income when dependents are direct ones. For other dependents, this ceiling is one third of the gross monthly income. When the amount claimed on this basis exceeds one third of the gross monthly income, the excess will be treated as an anticipatory transfer to be set off against the amount the repatriate is entitled to remit upon departure. Temporary residents on short-term contracts are allowed to remit up to two thirds of their gross monthly income. Cey- lonese nationals are not granted exchange for fam i ly remittances. Commissions up to 5 per cent of the c.i.f. value are allowed on export orders secured through agents abroad. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign exchange declared to the customs at the time of entry; they may not take out Ceylon currency notes and coins. Residents may take out Ceylon or foreign currency notes and coins not exceeding the equivalent of Cey Rs 50 a person (Cey Rs 25 for children under 12) once in 12 months, pro- vided that they have been granted travel exchange. 79 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Permits issued by the Controller of Exchange are required for all commercial exports. The export of some items is banned, and that of certain others requires export licenses issued by the relevant government agency. Exports to 14 specified countries9 are permitted to be made only by registered Ceylonese traders. Rubber exports to mainland China, Poland, Rumania, and the U.S.S.R., and tea exports to the United Arab Republic, are under state trading. Re-exports of nonmonetary gold, silver, and diamonds are allowed only in special circumstances. The Controller of Exchange issues the permit for a commercial export when he is satisfied that payment representing fair value for the goods has been or will be received in Ceylon under pre- scribed regulations and, usually, within four months from the date of shipment. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports must be surren- dered. Exporters of all goods other than tea, rubber, coconut oil, copra, dessicated coconut, and fresh coconuts are entitled to receive certificates with a face value in Ceyon rupees equal to the f.o.b. value of exports, upon surrender to an authorized bank of the foreign exchange actually earned. Exporters can use these certificates as supporting documents when buying foreign exchange for payment of imports, or for other payments abroad, which require the surrender of certificates. Certificates are freely transferable within 30 days from the date of issue; they have to be surrendered to an authorized bank before the expiry of that period. Certificates are not transferable thereafter, but the holders can use them when making foreign exchange payments within seven months from the date of issue; at the end of the seven-month period, the validity of the certificate lapses. Exporters of precious stones receive, in addition to certificates as indicated above, licenses to import raw materials (other than gold) for the jewelry industry corresponding to 25 per cent of their export receipts. 9 These countries are Albania, Austria, Bulgaria, main- land China, Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Hun- gary, Nor th Korea, Republic of Korea, Poland, Ruman ia, U.S.S.R., Nor th Viet-Nam, and Republic of Viet-Nam. 80 Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered. Receipts under the following head- ings entitle the recipient to obtain certificates with a face value equivalent to the value of the foreign exchange surrendered to an authorized bank: (1) travel receipts; (2) insurance receipts; (3) invest- ment income; (4) private transfers and donations; and (5) miscellaneous other inward remittances as determined, on a case-by-case basis, by the Controller of Exchange. Nonresident travelers are eligible to receive certificates corresponding to the amount of foreign exchange converted with autho- rized dealers; alternatively, these may pay the traveler, in addition to the rupee equivalent of the foreign exchange sold, the cash value of the certificate. A traveler entering Ceylon must declare his holdings, including currency notes and coins. The amount of foreign funds that may be carried into Ceylon in the form of travel credit instruments is not restricted. The import of Ceylon, Indian, and Pakistan currency is not permitted; however, Cey- lon notes may be imported up to Cey Rs 50, pro- vided that evidence of prior export of such notes by the same traveler is produced. Other currency notes and coins may be taken in without restriction. Capital Investments of foreign capital are permitted in projects which are specifically approved by the Government, or, where the capital is drawn from a Blocked Account in Ceylon, in shares of public companies incorporated in Ceylon; capital trans- fers for direct investment in Ceylon are entitled to receive certificates upon conversion of the foreign exchange into rupees. Proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments in approved projects may be repatriated, along with capital appreci- ation; transfers require surrender of certificates. Proceeds from sale or liquidation of investments not approved by the Government may not be transferred abroad, but they may be reinvested in Ceylonese securities; the current income thereon may be remitted abroad. New foreign investments in Ceylon that are con- sidered and approved by the Foreign Investment Approval Committee of the Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs are also granted special facilities in respect of remittances and taxation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Investments abroad by residents are not normally permitted. Resident-owned securities on which the princi- pal, interest, or dividends are payable (either con- tractually or at the option of the holder) in speci- fied currencies must be declared to the Controller of Exchange, if directed by the Central Bank, and the sale or transfer of such securities is allowed only with the permission of the Minister of Finance. Emigrants are not permitted capital remittances except on grounds of dire hardship. Subject to pre- scribed limits, the transfer of their net income is allowed for one year from the date of emigration, after deduction of any income being earned abroad, if the emigrant is under 55 years of age. If the emigrant is over 55 years of age or has acquired foreign citizenship, net income may be transferred, within certain limits, even after one year. Repatriates leaving Ceylon for residence in the country of their permanent domicile are permitted, at the time of their departure, to transfer assets representing their retirement funds and a reason- able amount of savings up to a maximum of Cey Rs 75,000 for Indian and Pakistani nationals and Cey Rs 150,000 for other nationals. However, for persons other than Indian and Pakistani nationals who prior to 1965 had already accumu- lated amounts in retirement funds in excess of Cey Rs 150,000, special provision is made for transfers of amounts up to Cey Rs 250,000. For persons who have been in business in Ceylon, the capital they originally brought into the country plus a reasonable amount of savings are allowed to be transferred, subject to the above limits. Transfer of personal assets and of income thereon requires surrender of certificates; exempt are (1) balances on provident and pension funds held abroad and representing contributions in respect of contractual obligations entered into before May 6, 1968, (2) provident and pension funds held in rupees in Ceylon, and (3) the value of insurance policies held abroad and taken out before May 6, 1968. Special provisions, governed by an agreement between Ceylon and India, apply to Indian families returning to India. Gold Imports and exports of gold in any form require licenses issued by the Central Bank. Such licenses CEYLON are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authori- ties. The Central Bank is the sole importer of gold. It sells gold in small quantities to licensed crafts- men and jewelers at the equivalent of US$60 an ounce. Small quantities are also sold to hospitals. Commercial imports of jewelry and of other arti- cles containing gold are severely restricted. Changes during 1968 January 1. A new state exporting company, Consolidated Exports (Ceylon) Ltd., began oper- ations. The Cooperative Wholesale Establishment ceased its export operations. January 2. A modified scheme for rebate of tea export duties was reintroduced, under which Cey Re 0.05 is rebated per pound of low-grown and medium-grown teas sold at Colombo auctions. February 29. A Protocol of April 1967 to the Trade Agreement of 1955 with Pakistan, calling for balanced exchange of specified goods up to a value of Cey Rs 3.75 million, was ratified and went into effect. Payments for these goods would be channeled through special accounts. May 6. A Foreign Exchange Entitlement Cer- tificate scheme was introduced. Under this scheme, exporters of nontraditional exports and specified other earners or recipients of foreign exchange were entitled to receive certificates of equivalent face value and denominated in Ceylon rupees upon surrender of foreign exchange. In addition, cer- tificates were to be sold to bona fide users in weekly tenders by the Central Bank. The certif- icates were freely transferable. Imports were divided into two groups, called the A and B categories; virtually all imports continued to require either general or individual licenses. Payments for imports in the A category did not require the surrender of certificates. Payments for imports in the B category required, in addition to the rupee equivalent of the foreign exchange for the import payment, certificates with a face value equal to that rupee amount. About 300 items in the B category were placed under open general license; these items could be imported only against letter of credit and the surrender of certificates was required upon opening of the letter of credit. May 6. The Export Incentive Bonus Voucher 81 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON Scheme in operation since December 1, 1966 was abolished. May 6. The license fee of 10 per cent on the value of an import license was abolished. A fee of 15 per cent was introduced on licenses to import certain goods financed by foreign aid. May 6. Customs duties on imports under open general license were revised. Duties on industrial machinery and parts imported under individual license were abolished, and those on basic raw materials reduced. May 6. The moratorium on the remittance of current profits and dividends was abrogated. The transfer of current profits and of the accumulated backlog of funds under moratorium required the surrender of certificates; accumulated balances were to be remitted over a period of time. May 8. The rate of export duty on tea in pack- ages not exceeding 1 kilogram was reduced from Cey Re 0.40 to Cey Re 0.25 per pound. May 23. The period of validity of certificates was extended from six months to seven months, counted from the date of issue; extension of this period was allowed in specified cases. May 31. The open general license list for imports was expanded by approximately 35 com- modities or groups of commodities. May 31. The maximum permissible buying commission or confirming fee for imports was reduced from 5 per cent to 1 per cent of the value of the invoice. In special cases, the maximum could be raised to 3 per cent, but the excess over 1 per cent would not be remittable abroad. June 26. A new procedure of selling certificates by the Central Bank was introduced, replacing sale through tenders. Henceforth, certificates were sold by commercial banks upon demand to bona fide users at a price determined from time to time by the Central Bank. The price for a certificate with a face value of Cey Rs 100 was set at Cey Rs 44. Certificates bought under this new procedure were no longer transferable, but remained valid during a period of seven months as a supporting docu- ment for making foreign exchange payments. June 26. A facility for forward transactions in certificates was introduced. Forward purchases of up to four months were allowed; a downpayment 82 of 10 per cent of the face value of the certificate was required when applying for forward purchases. The rate for forward sales by the Central Bank was set at Cey Rs 45 per Cey Rs 100 certificate, and that for forward purchases at Cey Rs 43. July 1. The surrender of certificates ceased to be required for the opening of a letter of credit for imports under open general license; the credit could be opened, provided that the importer entered into a forward contract to purchase certif- icates for the fu ll value of the letter of credit. July 15. The regulations concerning commercial exports from Ceylon were revised. The export of 13 items was banned and that of 18 other items was made subject to export licenses issued by the relevant government agency. The export of all other items was permitted without an export license. July 27. It was announced that payments for commissions would be allowed up to 3 per cent in the future, depending on the merits of each case. Certain circumstances under which no buying commission would be permitted were specified. August 2. A revision of the tariff structure was introduced adopting the Brussels tariff nomencla- ture. Duties on items essential for development were substantially reduced; those on many items considered less essential, or for which domestic supplies or substitutes were available, were increased. August 13. The maximum fee chargeable on licenses for aid-financed imports was increased from 15 per cent to 20 per cent of the value of the license. August 21. An Amendment to the Finance Act of 1961 empowered the Minister of Finance, act- ing on the recommendation of the Monetary Board, to allow foreign banks operating in Ceylon to accept deposits from Ceylonese nationals (on February 28, 1969 such permission was given to two bank s ). Foreign banks had been prohibited from doing so since 1961. September 12. Letters of credit no longer were required for the import of books and periodicals under open general license. October 5. Balances on private nonresident accounts that had arisen prior to the introduction of the moratorium on transfers of profits and div- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON idends were transferred to Moratorium Accounts. Such balances would be remittable on the same basis as balances accumulated during the mor- atorium. October 19. The open general license list was recast to conform to the new customs tar iff. October 28. The rebate of Cey Re 0.05 per pound on the export duty on teas sold at Colombo auctions was extended to high-grown teas. At the same time, the tea promotion cess was raised by 1 Ceylon cent to 5 Ceylon cents per pound. November 16. The export duty of 5 per cent on the value of precious and semiprecious stones was abolished. At the same time it was announced that exporters of precious stones would be granted licenses to import raw materials (except gold) for the jewelry industry equivalent in value to 25 per cent of their export receipts. 83 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD1 Exchange System No par value for the currency of Chad has been established with the Fund. The unit of cur- rency is the CFA Franc, which is officially main- tained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.2 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Chadian agency of the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and commercial banks in Chad take place at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Chad's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) the other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Congo (Brazzaville), Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Sen- egal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Chad itself, are considered for- eign countries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control The Directorate-General of the Budget and the Public Accounts in the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Transportation supervises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or sale of foreign securities in Chad, and inward and outward direct investment; it also issues import and export authorizations for gold. Exchange con- trol is administered by the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Transportation, who has largely 1 In view of certain changes that took place early in 1969 (see note at the end of this su rvey ), this survey presents the position on Janua ry 29, 1969. 2 The CFA franc circulating in Chad is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Congo (Braz- zav i l le), and Gabon. 84 delegated his approval authority to the Directorate- General mentioned above and to the authorized banks. All payments and receipts between Chad and foreign countries that are made through banks are registered, for statistical purposes only, by the BCEAEC, through the intermediary of the insti- tution executing the transfer; the BCEAEC also addresses inquiries to the principal firms and agen- cies concerning inward and outward payments made in other manners, particularly by the off- setting of claims and debts. All exchange trans- actions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries, i.e., the Postal Administration and authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Transportation. Prescription of Currency Chad is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAEC maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with the U.S.S.R. are made through special accounts established in accordance with a payments agreement. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through corre- spondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries—provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs through Foreign Accounts Francs. in Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports from all sources of wheat, wheat flour, and sugar require licenses. All other imports from ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution countries in the French Franc Area and from EEC countries other than France may be made freely. All imports from non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to licensing in accordance with an annual import program. This program and the amount of foreign exchange required to implement it are determined by a joint French-Chadian Committee. The import program contains global quotas for imports from non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area and a special quota for im- ports of cotton textiles from countries with ab- normal competitive advantages. Imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Specified imports from neighboring countries not belonging to the French Franc Area (Libya, Nigeria, and the Sudan) up to a value of CFAF 3 million a year for a single importer may be made through compensation transactions. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Import licenses entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Forward cover for imports from foreign countries is only permitted for specified commodities and requires the prior approval of the Directorate- General of the Budget and the Public Accounts. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invis- ibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equiv- alent to CFAF 100,000 a person a year; any for- eign exchange remaining after return to Chad must CHAD be surrendered. For business travel to foreign countries, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of up to CFAF 300,000 a person a trip; the Directorate-General of the Budget and the Public Accounts may issue exceptional alloca- tions in excess of CFAF 300,000. Tourist and business travel allocations may not be combined. Travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 10,000 in BCEAEC banknotes. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BCEAEC banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry, or, if no declaration has been made, up to the equivalent of CFAF 100,000; they may reconvert into foreign currency BCEAEC banknotes up to CFAF 25,000 that have been obtained from the sale of foreign means of pay- ment that were declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. With a few exceptions, all exports require licenses. Specified exports to Libya, Nigeria, and the Sudan may be made through compensation transactions. Export transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account coun- try must be surrendered. Export proceeds nor- mally must be received within 180 days after the arrival of the commodities at their destination. The proceeds must be collected, and surrendered if received in a foreign currency, within two months of the due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected, and if received in foreign currency surrendered, within two months of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the 85 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD BCEAEC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) and other foreign means of payment. Capital Capital movements between Chad and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted free ly. All foreign securities, for- eign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in Chad by residents or nonresidents must be depos- ited with authorized banks in Chad. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable or suspended insofar as they would be contrary to the exchange control regulations) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issu- ing, offer ing for sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Chad; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Chad, the control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Terri- tories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Direct investments abroad 3 require the prior approval of the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Transportation, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed prof i ts; the fu ll or partial liquida- tion of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a partici- pation that had previously been approved as con- s t i tu t ing the mak ing of a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Chad 4 require prior declaration to the Minister of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration, during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. The fu ll or partial liquidation of direct invest- ments in Chad must also be declared to the Min- ister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had pre- viously been approved as constituting the making of a direct investment in Chad. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Chadian investments abroad or foreign investments in Chad, must be reported to the Minister of Finance w i th in 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct inves tmen t, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad requires prior authori- zation by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connec- tion with ( 1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Chadian Government and ( 2) shares similar to securities whose issue, advertising, or offering for sale in Chad has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: ( 1) loans constituting a direct inves tment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons 3 Inc lud ing those made through the intermediary of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly con- trolled by persons in Chad and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Chad. 4 Inc lud ing those made by companies in Chad that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of foreign companies. 86 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution or firms take part; ( 3) loans contracted by regis- tered banks; and ( 4) loans other than those men- tioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under ( 4) that are free of authoriza- tion, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Minister of Finance within 20 days of the operation, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 5 million or less. Lending abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: ( 1) loans granted by registered banks; and (2) other loans, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not ex- ceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The making of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Minister of Finance w i th in 20 days of the operation, unless the amount of the loan is less than CFAF 500,000, provided, however, that the total outstanding amount of all loans granted abroad by the lender does not exceed CFAF 5 million. Under the Investment Code of August 26, 1963, any enterprise established in Chad, whether domestic or foreign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemption from direct taxes on specified income. The Code also provides for three categories of preferential treatment, in accordance with which certain fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in specified new industries or in the expansion of existing ones. Preferential treat- ment A applies to enterprises whose activity and market are limited to the national territory of Chad. Preferential treatment B applies to enter- prises whose activity and market include the terri- tory of two or more states of the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC )— Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, Congo (Brazzaville), and Gabon. Preferential treatments A and B are granted for a period of up to 15 years. Preferential treatment C is reserved CHAD for enterprises of prime importance to the coun- try's economic development; it provides for sta- bilization of their fiscal charges for up to 25 years. Requests for preferential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of Economy, who, after examining the documents, transmits them to the Investment Commission. A f ter an opinion has been given by that Commission, the project is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Preferen- tial treatments A and C are granted by decree issued by the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatment B is granted by a decision of the UDEAC upon the recommendation of the Coun- cil of Ministers. Gold Residents who are not producers of gold may not hold unworked gold unless they have obtained an authorization issued by the President on the advice of the Minister in Charge of Mines. Imports and exports of gold, whether unworked or refined, require prior authorization by the Directorate-General of the Budget and the Pub- lic Accounts and by the Directorate of Mines and Geology as well as the visa of the Directorate of Foreign Trade. Exports of unworked gold and of diamonds are usually made by approved Offices for Purchases, Sales, Imports, and Exports (BAV IE ). Exempt from this requirement are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Unworked gold may be exported only to France. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1968 February 10. Ordinance No. 3 PR-TP was issued concerning the holding, sale, import, circu- lation, export, and processing of gold and dia- monds. It replaced Order No. 3670-M of December 29, 1946 and Order No. 3644-M of November 14, 1957. June 1. With minor exceptions, imports origi- nating in and shipped from EEC countries other than France were freed from quantitative rectric- tions. June 7. Decree No. 132/F, by suspending 87 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD any contrary provisions of Ordinance No. 16/F of Ju ly 5, 1967 and its implementing regulations, re-established temporary exchange controls in relations with foreign countries. It prohibited, except with the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, all payments and transfers by residents to foreign countries, or, within Chad, in favor of a nonresident; all imports and exports of gold, means of payment, and securities; and all trans- actions and transfers leading to the constitution of assets abroad by a resident, or to the holding of foreign means of payment in Chad by a resi- dent. All claims on foreign countries or nonresi- dents resulting from exports, earnings, or income had to be collected and, where appropriate, sur- rendered. All settlements with foreign countries or nonresidents had to take place through autho- rized intermediaries. June 18. Decree No. 294/F defined foreign countries as all countries other than France (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. The decree also contained definitions of "residents" and "nonresidents," listed the types of payment that could be made freely, through an authorized intermediary, to foreign countries, and introduced an exchange allocation of the equiva- lent of CFAF 100,000 a person a trip for travel to foreign countries. The export by travelers to foreign countries of BCEAEC banknotes was limited to CFAF 50,000 a person a trip, and the amount of such banknotes taken out was deducted from the travel allocation. Payments up to CFAF 25,000 could be made freely for any pur- pose. All payments between Chad and foreign countries had to be made through the Postal Administration or authorized banks. All amounts subject to repatriation had to be collected within one month of the due date; the due date for export receipts had in principle to be within 180 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination. If payment was received in foreign currency, this had to be surrendered to an authorized inter- mediary within one month after collection. Non- resident accounts in Chad could not be credited with CFA banknotes or French banknotes. November 18. Decree No. 234/F revoked Decree No. 132/F and all implementing regula- tions. Ordinance No. 16/F and its implementing regulations were put into force again. This action 88 abolished the temporary exchange controls of June. December 28. Decree No. 251/F subjected to control by the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Transportation the claims and liabilities in francs and foreign currencies of banks and financial institutions established in Chad. This control could be delegated to the BCEAEC. December 28. Decree No. 252/F introduced new exhange control regulations in relations with foreign countries and suspended any contrary provisions of Ordinance No. 16/F of July 5, 1967 and of the regulations issued for its imple- mentation. The decree prohibited, except with the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, all payments and transfers by residents to foreign countries, or within Chad, in favor of a nonresi- den t; all imports and exports of gold, means of paymen t, and securities; and all transactions and transfers leading to the constitution of assets abroad by a resident, or to the holding of foreign means of payment in Chad by a resident. All pay- ments between residents and nonresidents had to be made through the intermediary of the Pos- tal Administration or a registered bank. All claims on foreign countries or nonresidents resulting from exports, earnings, or income had to be col- lected and, where appropriate, surrendered. All foreign securities, foreign currencies, and titles representing claims on foreign countries had to be deposited with an authorized intermediary, whether these assets belonged to a resident or a nonresident. All import and export transactions relating to foreign countries had to be domiciled with authorized banks. The Minister of Economy, Finance, and Transportation could delegate his approval au thor i ty to the Director-General of the Budget and Public Accounts. NOTE. —The following changes took place early in 1969: January 13. Order No. 102/FET/F listed the types of payment that could be made freely, through an authorized bank or the Postal Adminis- tration, to foreign countries. The approval author- ity for all other payments was delegated to the Director-General of the Budget and Public Accounts. Nonresident accounts in Chad could not be credited with BCEAEC banknotes. All amoun ts subject to repatriation had to be col- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution lected within two months of the due date; any amounts collected in foreign currencies also had to be surrendered to authorized banks within two months of the due date. Such payments could not be collected in banknotes or to the debit of a postal checking account in Chad. The due date for export receipts had in principle to be within 180 days after arrival of the commodities at desti- nation. The order also contained definitions of "foreign countries," "residents," and "nonresi- dents"; France and the Operations Account coun- tries were not treated as foreign countries. January 17. Order No. 190/FET required prior approval to send means of payment, titles to claims or property, and domestic or foreign secu- rities to a foreign country through the mail or by parcel post. The authorized intermediaries were exempt from this prior approval. January 17. By Order No. 192/F the Minis- ter of Economy, Finance, and Transportation delegated to the BCEAEC the supervision over the positions in CFA francs and in foreign cur- rencies vis-a-vis foreign countries of the banks and financial institutions in Chad. January 17. The Minister of Economy, Finance, and Transportation delegated to the Directorate-General of the Budget and the Pub- lic Accounts his approval authority in exchange control matters insofar as it had not already been delegated to the authorized intermediaries. January 17. Order No. 189/F provided that resident and nonresident travelers could not take out more than CFAF 10,000 in Chad banknotes (CFAF 5,000 for those going abroad for less than 24 hou r s ). Imports by resident or nonresi- dent travelers of Chad banknotes, French bank- notes, and banknotes of any institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury would be free, as would be imports of any means of payment denominated in a foreign currency. An exchange allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 100,000 a person a year was introduced for tourist travel to foreign coun- tries, and one of up to CFAF 300,000 a person a trip for business travel to foreign countries. The tourist travel allocation could not be combined with an allocation for business travel. The export of foreign banknotes by nonresident travelers was freely permitted up to the equivalent of CFAF 100,000; higher amounts could only be CHAD exported if declared upon en try. Nonresident trav- elers could reconvert BCEAEC banknotes up to CFAF 100,000 into foreign banknotes, provided that the former had been obtained by the sale of foreign means of payment that had been declared upon entry. January 27. Circular No. 1/FET/F estab- lished procedures for the domiciliation of import transactions relating to foreign countries and for payments in respect of the imports concerned. January 28. Circular No. 2/FET/F established procedures for the domiciliation of export trans- actions relating to foreign countries and for con- trols over the repatriation of proceeds from exports to foreign countries. January 28. Circular No. 4/FET/F estab- lished approval procedures for payments and transfers to foreign countries. Import and export authorizations for gold would be issued by the Directorate-General of the Budget and the Public Accounts. Payments up to CFAF 12,500 could be made freely, without indication of their pur- pose. The circular also established the terms on which foreign exchange could be purchased for- ward. This would only be allowed for import payments but not until the detailed regulations were announced. The circular also established procedures for payments for imports. Spot cover for imports in advance of the actual import pay- ment could not be constituted unless the goods were financed by a documentary credit. Nonresi- dent travelers could upon departure reconvert up to CFAF 25,000 into foreign currency. The tour- ist allowance could only be taken up by persons producing travel tickets. Foreign workers could transfer their entire net salary abroad, within three months of receipt. January 28. The Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Transportation issued Circular No. 5/FET/F to the authorized banks, concern- ing Foreign Accounts in Francs and foreign dos- siers for securities. All overdrafts on Foreign Accounts in Francs and in general all advances to nonresidents required prior approval. January 29. Circular No. 6/FET/F provided that foreign exchange for import payments could be bought forward for listed commodities. Con- tracts could be for one month at most and required the prior approval of the Directorate-General of the Budget and the Public Accounts. 89 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE Exchange Rate System No par value for the Chilean Escudo (which was introduced on January 1, 1960) has been established with the Fund. The par value for the Chilean peso established with the Fund on Octo- ber 5, 1953 is not applied to any transactions under the present exchange system. There are two exchange markets: the official market (known as the bank ing marke t) and the brokers' market. Only the Central Bank, the State Bank, authorized commercial banks, and other persons or entities authorized by the Central Bank may operate in these markets; brokers are not at present permitted to operate in either mar- ket. The rates of exchange in both markets are fluctuating rates. Outward transfers through both markets are controlled. Through the bank ing market pass government transactions, proceeds from exports, sales of exchange by the large min- ing companies, receipts from a few invisibles, and payments for imports and for some commercial invisibles. Most invisibles and most capital trans- actions pass through the brokers' market. In gen- eral, capital transactions are entitled to the same exchange market treatment on exit as on entry. However, the servicing and withdrawal of some capital received through the brokers' market may be effected through the banking market. Trans- actions in the bank ing market are for both spot and forward delivery at the same exchange rate; for imports of most commodities, forward exchange purchases are mandatory and export proceeds may be sold forward. For both types of transaction, settlement in escudos is effected at the time the exchange contract is negotiated. Transactions in the brokers' market are for spot delivery only. Settlements for imports are subject to a compulsory deferment period of 30 days from the date of shipment. There is additionally some restriction on the availability of exchange in that the Central Bank sells exchange to the commercial banks only for forward delivery (78 days on December 31, 1968). On December 30, 1968, the exchange rate in the bank ing market was E ° 7.65 buying, E° 7.67 selling, per US$1; the rate in the brokers' mar- ket was E° 8.69 buying, E° 8.71 selling, per US$1. Purchases of exchange in the brokers' market for 90 remittances that may be effected without specific authorization by the Central Bank are subject to a 10 per cent exchange tax; this tax is also applied to the retransfer of certain foreign capital less than a year after entry and to the interest and profits thereon. Administration of Control The Foreign Trade Department and the Department of International Transactions of the Central Bank of Chile are in charge of the opera- tion of the exchange control system. Some func- tions of the former Department have been dele- gated to local commissions in important cities, and the supervision of copper exports and all imports of the copper industry has been delegated to the Copper Corporation, which is supervised by the Central Bank and the Superintendency of Banks. Imports for the public sector are super- vised by the interministerial Import Committee for the Public Sector, on which the Central Bank is also represented. Prescription of Currency The proceeds of exports by the large copper companies must be received in U.S. dollars or other currencies specifically authorized by the Copper Corporation; these companies must pay their taxes and cover the local costs of their pro- duction in U.S. dollars. Settlements with Argen- tina, Bolivia, Colombia, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, and Venezuela must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Chile and the central bank of the country con- cerned, within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. All other transac- tions with other countries may be settled in any currency, provided that import payments are made in the currency of the contract, irrespective of the country of origin of the goods. Most pay- ments and transfers to South Africa are prohib- ited. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Cuba, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. All imports, except those of the large mining companies and imports of defense materials, must ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution be registered with the Central Bank. There is a List of Permitted Imports; commodities not appearing on it are prohibited unless imported through a "free port" zone (see below) or unless on Chile's National List negotiated within LAFTA, when such goods may be imported from within the area. Certain other commodities may be considered as effectively prohibited since, although on the List of Permitted Imports, they are subject to an advance deposit requirement of 10,000 per cent. Goods may normally be imported in any amount. The Central Bank, how- ever, is empowered to reject import applications (registrations), except those for goods covered by special laws, for any item on the permitted list if the total value of applications for imports in the previous month exceeds by more than 5 per cent the average monthly registrations for imports during the past 12 months; when applications are so rejected, the Central Bank must reject regis- tration for all commodities listed under the same customs tariff heading. This power has not been invoked since January 1966. Imports of goods not on the permitted list that are imported into "free port" zones, such as Arica, Magallanes, Aysen, and Chiloe, may not be shipped to other parts of the country unless they are first processed or assembled in the "free port" zone. Certain commodities (including automobiles and most trucks) may only be imported into a "free port" zone for use in that zone. Importers may purchase forward exchange as soon as their import application has been approved, but they may not take delivery until the compulsory deferment period for import pay- ments has been completed. For specified com- modities, importers must, within 50 days after shipment, purchase forward exchange corre- sponding to the full registered value of the import against immediate cash payment in local cur- rency; this requirement now applies to about 80 per cent of private sector imports. For supple- mentary lists of imports there are extended man- datory exchange cover periods of 120, 240, and 360 days. In all cases, however, the exchange cannot be remitted until 30 days after the date of the bill of lading. Over two thirds of the present volume of total imports is subject to advance deposit require- ments, which must be discharged in escudos at the time of registration. The principal rates of CHILE deposit are 10, 20, 50, 100, 200,1 and 10,000 per cent; one item is subject to a rate of 500 per cent. The following imports are exempt from advance deposit requirements: imports by the Government, the municipalities, the universities, certain specified state enterprises, the large mining companies, the Chemical and Mining Company of Chile (SOQUIM), and the fishing industry; imports financed by international organizations or under agreements for U.S. agricultural sur- pluses; imports on a deferred payment basis (con cobertura diferida); goods financed by the U.S. AID; imports into the "free port" zones; imports of foods into the principal mining area; imports to replace machinery and equipment damaged or destroyed in the 1960 earthquake; household and personal effects of travelers; per- sonal effects of certain immigrants; household goods of returning Chileans and resident foreign- ers; imports not of a commercial character and valued at less than US$100; and imports that originate in other member countries of LAFTA and are included either in Chile's National List for LAFTA countries or in Chile's List of Special Concessions extended to Paraguay and Ecuador. These exemptions do not apply to items subject to the 10,000 per cent deposit, except for imports from LAFTA countries of goods on the Chilean National List, unless a specific exemption is granted by the Executive Committee of the Cen- tral Bank. The deposits may be refunded any time after 90 days following registration; if cus- toms clearance takes place before the end of this period, the deposits may be released for payment of customs duties and other import charges. Imports are subject to a registration tax of 2 per c e n t2 on the c.i.f. value. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to exchange control. Payment through the banking market is permitted for a few commercial invis- ibles; all other invisibles are settled through the brokers' market. Payments through the brokers' market may be effected up to established limits 1 On Janua ry 1, 1969, these rates of deposit were changed to 5, 15, 40, 90, and 180, respectively. 2 On J anu a ry 1, 1969, this tax was changed to 3 per cent. 91 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE for the following purposes: for tourist travel (in addition to f a r e s ), up to the equivalent of US$100 a person a journey to towns within 500 kilometers of the Chilean border, of US$250 a journey for travel elsewhere in Latin America, or of US$500 a journey outside Latin Amer ica ;3 for fam i ly remittances (including remittances to students), up to US$200 a month for each bene- ficiary; for books, up to US$100 a person a month ( for juridical persons on ly ); for subscriptions to periodicals, up to US$200 a person a year (for juridical persons on ly ); and for insurance pre- miums, up to US$1,200 a person a year.4 Pay- ments for medicine and pharmaceutical products may be made, provided that the product in ques- tion is not available in Chile. Transfers in excess of these limits, and those in respect of other trans- actions, require the prior authorization of the Central Bank. All purchases of exchange in the brokers' market, except those for which the Cen- tral Bank has approved a transfer application (solicitud de giro), are subject to a tax of 10 per cent; the only documentation required for such invisibles is an application form (carta petition). Residents of Chilean nationality and residents of foreign nationality who have spent more than a year in Chile, when traveling to countries outside Latin America, are required to pay a travel tax of E° 360 a trip. Travelers may take out any amount in Chilean banknotes. Resident travelers may take out 10 per cent of their travel allow- ance in foreign banknotes when traveling to coun- tries outside Latin America; for travel in Latin America, up to US$60 is available in foreign banknotes, or up to US$100 if the traveler agrees not to use the balance of his allowance. Exports and Export Proceeds With minor exceptions for humanitarian rea- sons, exports to Cuba and Rhodesia are prohib- ited. Exports of arms and related equipment to South Africa also are prohibited. Additionally, exports of some items are prohibited or are sub- ject to quota irrespective of destination. 3 US$250 a person a trip for travel to Curasao, Jamaica, and Puerto Rico. 4 This amount is for prem iums contracted in foreign currency with Chilean companies or foreign companies authorized to operate in Chile. For insurance taken put w i th other companies, the authorized bank requires special permission from the Superintendent of Insurance Companies to sell the exchange. 92 All exports must be registered with the For- eign Trade Department of the Central Bank and the sale proceeds of exports other than those of the large mining companies are subject to sur- render requirements. The large mining companies sell exchange to the Central Bank only to the extent needed to meet their local requirements to cover costs of production and tax liabilities. Most export proceeds subject to surrender requirements must be repatriated within 90 days from the date of shipment, and surrendered within 10 days thereafter, but for specified goods this period is extended to between 120 days and 480 days. Export proceeds sold on a spot basis must be transferred to the Central Bank; other proceeds may be sold forward between 60 days before shipment and 10 days before expiration of the obligatory surrender period. By virtue of Law No. 16528 of 1966, many minor exports receive refunds of taxes and other charges included in their cost of production; these refunds amount to up to 30 per cent of the f.o.b. or c.i.f. value of such exports, depending on the product. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts of exchange from news and commu- nications agencies fees, from specified transac- tions by national insurance companies, from commissions, from reimbursements of insurance claims, and from credit granted in foreign cur- rency by the commercial banks must be sold in the banking market. Exchange derived from other invisibles, including tourism, may be sold in the brokers' market or retained. Travelers may bring in any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. Capital Capital may be brought into Chile through either exchange market; no capital can flow out freely through either market. Normally, capital is subject to the same exchange market treatment on exit as on entry; this policy applies also to remittances of dividends and profits on the capital. Foreign capital may enter Chile under one of three different arrangements, depending on the purpose and the type of the investment. ( 1) Article 14 of Decree 1272 (September 7, 1962) stipulates that capital brought into the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution country in the form of foreign exchange (aporte de capital) may be sold freely in the brokers' market through authorized banks when the investor (individual or corporation, national or foreign) has registered with the Central Bank. To this end, the Central Bank issues a nontransfer- able certificate which also permits the free out- ward transfer of the capital through the brokers' market. The remittance of profits or interest on this capital requires the authorization of the Cen- tral Bank. If the capital is retransferred within a year of entry, it is subject to the 10 per cent exchange tax levied on certain brokers' market transfers; the same is true of interest and profits on such capital. (2) According to Article 16 of the above Decree, the investor may enter into a loan agree- ment with a Chilean individual or corporation, or into an agreement with a national enterprise with a view to capital participation. In these cases, the investor has an option between the banking mar- ket and the brokers' market; the Central Bank guarantees access to the exchange market chosen for the entry of the capital, both for the servicing of loans and the re-export of capital, and for the remittance of interest and profits. The guarantee is given subject to certain conditions, one of which is a minimum investment period of 3 years. As an application and extension of Article 16, the Executive Committee of the Central Bank on November 3, 1963 took a decision to create an additional regime to fur ther foreign investment in Chilean export industries. Under this regime, capital brought in for the promotion of exports of agricultural, industrial, and mining products may be sold in the brokers' market, while its repatriation may take place in the banking mar- ket, provided that the amount repatriated is financed from the increase in the volume of exports resulting from the investment. The regime is implemented through individual investment agreements in accordance with Article 16. Repa- triation of the invested capital may start 2 years after entry and may amount to 12% per cent annually of the invested capital. In addition, the remittance of interest or profits is permitted annually up to 7 per cent of the invested capital. The repayment of capital, and the transfer of interest or profits thereon, may be effected through the banking market, provided that the amount does not exceed 50 per cent of the CHILE amount of exchange resulting from the volume increase in exports. If this criterion prevents the transfer of the full amount of amortization, inter- est, and profits through the banking market, the transfers may be completed through the brokers' market. The above privileges are only granted to firms that will not purchase foreign exchange in the bank ing market to acquire abroad any ma- chinery, equipment, or capital goods on a cash payment basis. In a fu r ther extension of the regime under Article 16, on June 2, 1966, the Central Bank announced that it would guarantee the foreign exchange for repatriation of, and earn- ings on, imported capital, provided that certain conditions were met. These were that ( a) the investment must be deemed to be of importance to the Chilean economy; (b) it must amount to at least US$100,000 or the equivalent in other currencies; (c) the capital must remain in the country for at least 3 years, and subsequent repatriation must not be more than 20 per cent a year, on a noncumulative basis; (d) the exchange must be sold in the banking market; and (e) the interest rate on credit to Chilean firms must not be higher than that in the domes- tic market. ( 3) The most important law governing foreign investment is Decree-Law 258 of 1960, which establishes a regime both for foreign exchange transfers and long-term capital investment. A Foreign Investment Committee studies the pro- posal and the Ministry of Economy approves by decree the particular investment; the Committee establishes both guarantees regarding withdrawal of capital and remittances of interest and profits and may also give special guarantees regarding exemption from payment of certain import sur- charges, customs duties, and taxes. Such privi- leges may be granted for a period of 10 years, with extension to 20 years in special cases. Remit- tances are effected in the same market (normally the banking ma rke t) through which the capital was brought in, and the investor has the right to use the exchange resulting from the export pro- ceeds of his investment. Gold Newly mined gold is purchased from the pro- ducers by EN AMI (Empresa Nacional de Mine- r i a ), which, after refining, sells it at US$35 an ounce to the Central Bank. The latter has this 93 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE gold coined at the Mint. The Central Bank makes gold available to industrial users in the form of Chilean gold coins. Gold bars may only be imported and exported by the Central Bank. The import of gold coins and of gold dust, leaves, and wire for industrial use is free of quantitative restriction but is subject to a 10,000 per cent advance deposit requirement. Changes during 1968 During the year many changes were made in the List of Permitted Imports and in the amounts of advance deposit applicable to specific items; only the more important of these changes are recorded. January 8. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 5.90 and E° 6.86, respectively, per US$1. January 15. Ad valorem duties on all imports, including those previously exempt, were raised by 5 percentage points. There were certain exemp- tions, however, for foodstuffs and for commodi- ties covered by international agreements. January 23. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 6.00 and E° 6.99, respectively, per US$1. February 5. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 6.11 and E° 7.12, respectively, per US$1. February 14. Central Bank Circular No. 975 listed imports for which forward exchange cover could be obtained within 240 or 360 days. February 23. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E ° 6.20 and E° 7.23, respectively, per US$1. March 5. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 6.28 and E° 7.33, respectively, per US$1. March 5. Imports on consignment of agricul- tural machinery up to US$12 million were exempted from the advance deposit requirements. March 5. It was announced that the ban on trade with South Africa also applied to invest- ments in, and loans to, that country, and to most payments in respect of current invisibles; on the export side, however, the ban would apply only to arms and related equipment. 94 March 22. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 6.36 and E° 7.41, respectively, per US$1. April 5. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 6.44 and E° 7.49, respectively, per US$1. April 19. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 6.52 and E° 7.65, respectively, per US$1. April 25. The regulations on imports of per- sonal effects and household goods belonging to travelers were revised. Any amount in excess of specified values was made subject to a 10,000 per cent deposit rate. May 9. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 6.59 and E° 7.65, respectively, per US$1. May 22. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E ° 6.65 and E° 7.71, respectively, per US$1. June 7. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 6.73 and E° 7.79, respectively, per US$1. June 27. Procedures and regulations were established for the foreign operations of SOQUIM (Sociedad Quimica y Minera de Chile S.A.— Chemical and Mining Company of Chile), the successor organization to the Nitrate and Iodine Sales Corporation (COVENSA ). July 11. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E ° 6.87 and E° 7.93, respectively, per US$1. July 26. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 6.95 and E ° 8.00, respectively, per US$1. August 8. Import payments were to be made in the currency of the contract, regardless of the country of origin of the merchandise. August 8. Export proceeds had to be sur- rendered within 10 days of collection. August 9. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E ° 7.03 and E° 8.08, respectively, per US$1. August 12. A reciprocal credit agreement signed by the Central Banks of Chile and Bolivia ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution went into effect. Freight and other charges on goods in transit to Bolivia from third countries were not settled through the agreement accounts. October 28. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 7.40 and E° 8.44, respectively, per US$1. CHILE August 14. The margin between buying and selling rates which the Banco del Estado and the commercial banks could charge in their foreign exchange transactions was fixed at E° 0.020 per US$1 or its equivalent in other foreign currencies. August 30. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 7.10 and E° 8.15, respectively, per US$1. August 30. Imports of goods of U.S. origin and financed by the U.S. AID were exempted from advance deposit requirements. Importers of such goods were also allowed to pay only 50 per cent of the c.i.f. value of the imported goods in cash, with the balance to be paid over a 50-day period. September 7. Ad valorem import duties on capital goods were reduced in proportion to the length of the foreign credit obtained by the importer. September 11. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 7.17 and E° 8.22, respectively, per US$1. September 12. Advance import deposits could be released and used to pay import duties and other import charges. Previously, they were blocked for at least 90 days. September 26. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 7.25 and E ° 8.29, respectively, per US$1. October 8. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 7.31 and E ° 8.36, respectively, per US$1. October 23. Banks could make available travel exchange for use in Latin American countries with which reciprocal credit agreements are in force in the form of drafts denominated in U.S. dollars and made out to the traveler. Such drafts could be reimbursed through the relevant agree- ment accounts. November 8. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were further depreciated to E° 7.47 and E° 8.51, respectively, per US$1. November 27. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 7.53 and E° 8.57, respectively, per US$1. November 28. The minimum deferment period for import payments was reduced from 60 days to 30 days from the date of the bill of lading. December 4. It was announced that the Cen- tral Bank's forward delivery period for foreign exchange for imports would be reduced from 82 days to 78 days. December 4. Capital imported in the form of foreign exchange (aporte de capital) under Article 14 of Decree No. 1272 and re-exported within a year of entry became subject to the 10 per cent tax applicable to certain outward trans- fers through the brokers' market; the same was true of transfers of interest and profits on such capital. December 9. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 7.60 and E° 8.64, respectively, per US$1. December 17. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed between the Central Banks of Chile and Brazil. It did not go into effect in 1968. December 27. The exchange allocation for travel to Curasao, Jamaica, and Puerto Rico was reduced from US$500 to US$250 a person a trip. December 30. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E ° 7.67 and E ° 8.71, respectively, per US$1. December 30. With effect from January 1, 1969, the advance import deposit rates of 10, 20, 50, 100, and 200 per cent were reduced to 5, 15, 40, 90, and 180 per cent, respectively, and the registration tax on imports was increased from 2 per cent to 3 per cent. 95 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CHINA Exchange Rate System No par value for the New Taiwan Dollar has been established with the Fund. The official buy- ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are NT$40 and NT$40.10, respectively. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies are also officially fixed, on the basis of the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar and the par values of the cur- rencies concerned.1 Currencies for which rates are not officially fixed may be accepted by appointed banks, and the rates are calculated in accordance with the foreign market quotations. With certain exceptions, earners of foreign exchange must sell it at these rates to banks appointed by the Central Bank of China. Different effective rates may arise from an export incentive scheme (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below). Administration of Control The Executive Yuan is responsible for policies concerning foreign exchange and trade controls. The Foreign Exchange and Trade Commission (FETC) is the executive agency concerned with foreign exchange and trade matters. The functions of the FETC are to formulate and implement policies and plans on foreign exchange and for- eign trade; to screen and approve the use of foreign exchange (including the issuance of exchange and trade licenses); to coordinate the use of foreign exchange with the international economic cooperation program; to act as a coordi- nating agency among various authorities in con- nection with foreign exchange and trade transac- tions; and to deal with other relevant matters pursuant to orders of the Executive Yuan. Deci- sions of the FETC are implemented through the appropriate organizations and appointed banks. Exchange and trade licensing is administered by several committees in accordance with the nature of the applications. These committees refer the more important applications for import licenses to the FETC for approval. The Central Bank of China is responsible for the over-all management of foreign exchange, for the determination of the official buying and selling 1 These currencies are Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dol- lars, I ta l ian lire, Ma lays ian dollars, and pounds sterling. 96 rates of exchange, and for the supervision of the appointed banks, of which the Bank of Taiwan is the most important. The Bank of Taiwan issues import and export licenses on authorization from the FETC; however, licenses for imports under the U.S. farm surplus program are issued by the Bank of China. Prescription of Currency Export receipts must be obtained in Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Malaysian dollars, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars (certain exports to Viet-Nam are settled under tied letters of credit in U.S. dollars which may be used only to finance imports from the United States other than agricultural surpluses that must be exported under the barter program of the Commodity Credit Corporation). Also, these are the foreign currencies that may be used by residents of other countries to finance investments in the Republic of China. Settlements with Spain are made in U.S. dollars through a bilateral account. The currency and method for making payments to residents of foreign countries other than Spain are not prescribed. Nonresident Accounts China's exchange control regulations do not provide for a clear distinction between residents and nonresidents. As a consequence, persons who would be considered nonresident under many other exchange control systems are not granted treatment essentially different from that accorded to residents of the Republic of China in exchange control matters. Accounts in new Taiwan dollars of persons who are residents of other countries are treated in the same way and are subject to the same regu- lations as other accounts in new Taiwan dollars. The exchange control regulations do not provide for blocked balances and blocked accounts held in the name of residents of foreign countries. Residents may maintain accounts in U.S. dol- lars or Hong Kong dollars, as follows: Holders of foreign banknotes may have these credited to Foreign Currency Accounts, and recipients of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution remittances from abroad or of money orders drawn on foreign banks may have the proceeds credited to Foreign Exchange Accounts. Balances in Foreign Currency Accounts may be withdrawn in the original currency or in new Taiwan dollars, after conversion at the official buying rate. Bal- ances in Foreign Exchange Accounts may be withdrawn in new Taiwan dollars; they may also be remitted abroad freely, with the exception that foreign exchange that originated in the United States may not be remitted to Hong Kong. Foreign Exchange Accounts are subdivided into interest- bearing time deposits and passbook accounts (which do not bear interest). Imports and Import Payments 2 All imports require individual licenses. For vir- tually all commodities, license applications are screened by the Foreign Exchange and Trade Commission. Exchange settlement corresponding to 50 per cent of the f.o.b. or c. & f. value of imports (20 per cent for raw cotton and 25 per cent for beef tallow financed under the U.S. P.L. 480 program) must be made within 14 days of approval of the license. Provided that the foregoing requirement has been met, the holder of an import license is entitled to obtain the neces- sary foreign exchange from an appointed bank. Imports from communist countries are prohibited. The Chinese authorities license and check imports from Hong Kong in order to induce importers to obtain certain imports direct from the country of production and to control effectively imports from mainland China; for similar reasons, certain com- modities are not permitted to be imported from Hong Kong and Macao. Certain commodities which still can be financed with U.S. aid funds can be imported only from the United States. Imports are divided into three groups: (1) pro- hibited, (2) controlled, and ( 3) permissible. The prohibited imports comprise not only narcotics and some other goods usually excluded by most countries from importation but also a wide range of Pharmaceuticals and a number of luxury goods and less essential items, such as certain Chinese luxury foods, cigarettes, cigars, liquor, jewelry, certain medicines, tea, sugar (and its substitutes), and molasses. Liquor and cigarettes are imported 2 Special regulations apply to imports into the Kaoh- siung export processing area. CHINA from time to time by a government monopoly organization, which is also responsible for domes- tic distribution of these commodities. The con- trolled list contains three types of goods: some consumer luxury items; certain goods that are also produced locally of good quality and in sufficient quantity to meet domestic demand and whose ex-factory prices are not more than 10 per cent higher than the landed, duty-paid prices of com- parable imported goods; and goods subject to regulation and allocation. The first two types are licensed restrictively; goods of the third type are often imported by government agencies, which offer them for sale either by allocation or by auction. Imports on the permissible list are licensed liberally and can be made by both end- users and traders. The importation of items on the controlled list is permitted only to factories and end-users. According to the intended utilization, goods may be imported by one of the three main groups of importers: government trading agencies, quali- fied private traders, and end-users and manufac- turers. Commercial imports handled by govern- ment trading agencies include chemical fertilizers, tinplate, crude oil, and automobiles. The Central Trust of China is the main government trading agency. It handles imports for government and military organizations, public enterprises, and other customers. Another government trading agency is the Taiwan Supply Bureau, which is in charge of imports for the Taiwan Provincial Gov- ernment, some local industries, and certain other customers. Firms that wish to operate as authorized ("registered") importers must obtain approval ("registration") from the FETC and be registered by the Taiwan Provincial Department of Recon- struction or the Reconstruction Department of Taipei City; the firms must be operating in accor- dance with certain laws and have a minimum capital of NT$200,000 and an "export record" equivalent to more than US$50,000 for the last two years. Traders licensed to operate on a com- mission basis may act only as agents for traders or foreign suppliers. They also must be approved by the FETC. End-users and manufacturers are permitted to import raw materials, machinery, and replacement equipment needed for their factories. In granting 97 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHINA licenses to this category of importer, the licensing authorities take into account such criteria as pro- duction capacity and equipment. In processing applications for licenses to import capital equip- ment for the construction of new plants, the licensing authorities consider the feasibility of the project and its priority from the point of view of the economic needs of the country. Imports to be used for processing or producing goods for export are licensed up to requirements (e.g., raw cotton, wool, wood for the production of plywood). Private importers (i.e., importers other than government agencies and public enterprises) handle more than 70 per cent of the imports paid for with currencies provided from official exchange reserves. According to the methods of financing, imports may be divided into two broad categories: (1) imports for which exchange is allocated directly out of official exchange reserves, and ( 2) imports which are made without recourse to official exchange reserves and which comprise (a) those made under the U.S. P.L. 480 program and (b) those paid for with self-provided exchange or exchange supplied by foreign inves- tors, foreign lenders, or overseas Chinese. Imports obtained with self-provided exchange are those financed by importers out of their own foreign exchange obtained by them prior to their coming to the Republic of China or originating from exchange receipts exempt from the surrender requirement. With the exception of machinery and equip- ment imported by a productive enterprise for its own use, imports from all sources are subject to an import surcharge equivalent to 26-30 per cent of the applicable customs duty, depending on the commodity. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require approval from the FETC. Payments for invisibles directly related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved. The transfer of interest, profits, and earnings on auth- orized foreign investments in the Republic of China may be made without restriction. Foreign exchange for payments for certain other invisibles is allocated only up to established 98 limits or on a percentage basis. Foreign techni- cians are allowed to remit to their dependents abroad up to 70 per cent of their basic monthly salary (bonuses, profit shares, overtime pay, and insurance payments are excluded); remittances of larger amounts require special approval. Employees of the Government or of educational institutions may remit to their dependents in Hong Kong or Macao up to HK$150 a month. Membership fees of foreign institutions and certain payments for news services, books, and magazines (personal subscriptions for reference purposes) are approved up to certain limits. Receipts from local subscrip- tions to, and sales of, imported newspapers and periodicals are remittable up to certain limits. Up to 70 per cent of the net amount of motion- picture film rental and of foreign entertainers' earnings may be transferred abroad; the remain- der is to be used for local expenses and invest- ment in the Republic of China. A maximum of US$2,400 a year is provided for tuition and living expenses during the first academic year of students studying abroad. Individual approval is required if their total tuition and expenses exceed the US$2,400 limit. Residents are granted an exchange allowance equivalent to US$300 a trip (US$150 for each accompanying dependent under the age of 12) for any approved type of travel. For business travel, an allowance equiva- lent to US$500 a month for up to three months is granted for living expenses. All travel allocations are net of fares and tickets. Applications for exchange to pay for certain other types of invis- ibles are approved on their merits. Persons leaving the Republic of China may take with them no more than NT$ 1,000 in domestic banknotes and coins and the equivalent of US$200 in foreign currencies. Those travelers who have stayed in the Republic less than six months may take with them any unspent portion of the foreign currency which they registered upon entry, and may in addition convert local currency into foreign currency up to the equivalent of US$200. Exports and Export Proceeds 3 All exports require licenses, mainly in order to ensure the surrender of foreign exchange. Licenses 3 Special regulations apply to exports and re-exports from the Kaohsiung export processing area. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution may be issued only for exports to noncommunist countries. The re-exportation of imported goods is permitted after they have been processed. Exports of sugar, rice, and salt are handled by government trading agencies. Quota limitations are maintained on the export of canned mushrooms, canned pineapple, cement, glutamic acid, and monosodium glutamate. The export of a few foodstuffs, including bananas and sugar, also is restricted. There are also ceilings on the export of cotton textiles to Canada, Italy, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Minimum prices are established for exports of some ten commodities. The FETC is empowered to auth- orize exports at prices below the minimum export price. Manufacturers who use imported raw materials to produce goods for export are, after export of the processed goods, refunded various charges imposed on such raw materials. These charges include import duties, defense surcharge on import duties, harbor dues, and commodity tax. Some preferential treatment is accorded to payers of income tax related to the production of goods for export, provided that the taxpayers submit satisfactory proof of such exports; complete exemption from the tax is not granted, however. With minor exceptions, exporters are required to surrender exchange earnings accruing from exports immediately after their collection. Most exports to any permitted destination may be made on a consignment or collection basis, provided that payment is not deferred for more than 180 days from shipment. Subject to approval, bona fide gifts and commodity samples up to the value of US$100 may be sent abroad. When leaving the Republic of China, tourists are allowed to take out domestic products valued up to US$100 with- out providing evidence that they have surrendered foreign exchange. Under the rules laid down in 1956 to promote industrial exports, export manufacturers may register part of the foreign exchange derived from processed exports with the FETC. Foreign exchange thus registered may be used for the import of raw materials, supplies, machinery and equ ipment needed by the industry concerned, or may be transferred to other manufac turers. The registered foreign exchange scheme entitles manu fac tu re rs to import for their own use, CHINA through a more convenient procedure, commod- ities on the controlled list, and sometimes com- modities on the prohibited import list. The scheme is also extended to domestic producers of raw materials required by export processing industries. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange surrender requirements applicable to proceeds from invisibles are generally similar to those applicable to export proceeds. Interest, earnings, and profits on investments made by Chinese investors outside the country, and orig- inally approved by the FETC, must be surren- dered to the banks, but earnings from private investments abroad that have not been financed by outward remittance may be retained. Private inward remittances may be retained by the recip- ients for deposit on a foreign exchange account, from which they may be transferred freely. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency and either hold or surrender it; the amount imported must be declared upon entry. The import of domestic banknotes expressed in new Taiwan dollars is limited to NT$ 1,000 for each traveler; a license from the Ministry of Finance is required for importing a larger amount. Capital Investments by nonresidents (including overseas Chinese) may be made in capital equipment or raw materials, or through the transfer of foreign currency to the Republic of China. In accordance with the Foreign Investment Law of July 14, 1954, as amended in 1959, and the Statute for Encouragement of Investment, enacted in 1960 and revised in 1965, new foreign investments approved by the authorities are guaranteed (1) unrestricted transfer of net annual profits or earned interest; ( 2) repatriation of capital, includ- ing reinvested earnings, 2 years af ter completion of the investment plan, at an annual rate not exceeding 15 per cent, calculated in relation to the originally invested funds; ( 3) the right to re-export invested capital in its original fo rm; ( 4) favorable treatment in respect of rezoning and requisition of agricultural land for industrial use: ( 5) certain benefits with respect to business income tax and import duties; and (6) compensa- tion for expropriation where the foreign invest- ment constitutes less than 51 per cent, and immu- 99 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHINA nity from expropriation for 20 years where the foreign investment constitutes at least 51 per cent, of the total investment. In addition, foreign invest- ments are granted treatment at least as favorable as that accorded to new domestic investments. Laws for the encouragement of foreign invest- ments provide for additional benefits in specific cases. To obtain the benefits of the investment laws, investments by nonresidents must be made in enterprises conducive to the economic and social development of the country, such as mining, com- munications, and manufacturing for domestic needs. Preference is given to foreign investors who intend to produce goods for export or for replac- ing imports. Nonresidents (including overseas Chinese) who intend to make investments in Taiwan stocks and wish to take advantage of privileges provided under the foreign investment laws, as described above, must obtain approval from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Purchases and sales of stocks by nonresidents must be made through the inter- mediary of registered brokers, such as the Trust Department of the Bank of Taiwan and the Trust Department of the Central Trust of China. Subject to approval, direct investments may be made outside the Republic of China in the form of technical know-how, semifinished products, locally manufactured equipment, and remittances of foreign exchange. Portfolio investment abroad by residents who are private persons is not nor- mally permitted. Chinese nationals who wish to emigrate, and persons who had settled in the Republic of China and wish to return to their native countries, are not accorded any special transfer facilities in respect of proceeds from the liquidation of their assets in the Republic. Persons outside the Repub- lic of China who acquired in the Republic assets or balances in new Taiwan dollars on account of dowries, inheritances, gifts, etc., are not normally granted the right of transferring them from the Republic. Gold Residents may hold gold in any form, but they may sell it only to the Central Bank of China, at the official price of NT$448.00 per 10 grams of fine gold. They may not use it as collateral for 100 loans. Producers of gold must surrender their out- put to the Central Trust of China at US$35 per ounce to have its fineness reduced to 0.875. Gold of this fineness is then auctioned to registered goldsmiths,4 who are permitted to sell only orna- mental gold of a fineness less than 0.875. The importation of gold for investment purposes, etc., is subject to the approval of the FETC and both its importation and auctioning must be handled by the Central Trust of China. Travelers may bring in any amount of gold. Residents may freely take out gold in the form of jewelry, provided that its weight does not exceed 2 shih Hang, i.e., 62.5 grams. Changes during 1968 April 2. Importers were no longer required to purchase "patriotic bonds" when purchasing exchange to pay for imports. May 17. Foreign investment in China in the form of patents and technological know-how could not exceed 20 per cent and 15 per cent, respectively, of the total amount of paid-in capital. June 20. The import surcharge was increased from 20 per cent to 26-30 per cent of the appli- cable customs duty. July 1. An export surcharge of 5 per cent was levied for a one-year period on bananas, mush- rooms, and asparagus. It would be subject to periodic adjustments. September 12. The ban on the import of com- pact automobiles was lifted and the government- owned Central Trust of China was designated as the sole import agent; imports would be per- mitted from any source. The importation of air- conditioned buses for tourist purposes was also permitted. September 19. The Executive Yuan decided that the FETC would be dissolved on January 1, 1969 and its functions would be taken over by the Ministries of Economic Affairs and Finance and the Central Bank. (On January 1, 1969, a Foreign Exchange Department was established in the Central Bank of China to assume the manage- ment of foreign exchange in the Republic of China.) 4 At a floor price of NTS 1,570 per 1.00471 ounces of 87.5 per cent fineness gold, equivalent to US$44.60 per troy ounce of 99.9 fineness. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA Exchange Rate System On December 17, 1948, a par value for the Colombian Peso was established by Colombia with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. All exchange transactions are effected through the Bank of the Republic or the autho- rized banks in the official market —the exchange certificate market, in which the rate fluctuates. On December 31, 1968 the average selling rate in the certificate market was Col$ 16.95 per US$1. There are also certain other effective exchange rates. The different exchange rates and the types of transaction to which they apply are set out in the Table of Exchange Rates, below. On Decem- ber 31, 1968, the fluctuating buying rate for pro- ceeds from coffee exports was Col$13.50 per US$1, and that for most other exports Col$ 19.29 per US$1. All imports are paid for at the certifi- cate market rate. All payments and receipts in respect of current invisibles and capital also take place at that rate. Administration of Control All imports and exports require prior regis- tration at the Institute of Foreign Trade ( INCOMEX ). Exchange for payments must be purchased through the Bank of the Republic or the commercial banks, with an approved exchange license issued by the Exchange Office of the Bank of the Republic. The Monetary Board periodi- cally draws up a foreign exchange budget. It also establishes priorities within that budget for the delivery of exchange, after making the necessary reservations to cover the obligations of the Bank of the Republic and to service the external debt of the public agencies and the National Federa- tion of Coffee Growers. Over-all import and export policy is determined by the Board of the Institute of Foreign Trade. The Institute of For- eign Trade, through its Special Import Board, con- trols imports that are subject to prior licensing. The Exchange Office of the Bank of the Republic keeps an accounting record both of foreign invest- ment in Colombia and of debts abroad, and con- trols the movement of foreign capital as well as the transfer of profits, dividends, commissions, and royalties for trademarks and patents. The Superintendency of Exchange Control, which is attached to the Ministry of Finance, enforces con- trol and supervision over exchange transactions and is responsible for applying penalties for vio- lation of the exchange regulations currently in force. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts related to international transactions are normally effected in U.S. dollars. Settlements with Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Spain, and Rumania for commercial trans- actions must be made through a clearing account in accordance with the provisions of the relevant bilateral payments agreement. The National Fed- eration of Coffee Growers has concluded pay- ments agreements with Bulgaria and Yugoslavia. Payments between Colombia and Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Ecuador, Mexico, and Peru are made through accounts maintained within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. Nonresident Accounts Credit establishments are authorized to receive short-term deposits in foreign currency from physical or juridical persons not resident in Colombia, and these deposits are freely available to the holders, but any foreign currency deposits that they may wish to convert into Colombian currency must be sold to the Bank of the Repub- lic. Before releasing the accounts of nonresidents, banks must obtain prior authorization from the Exchange Office. Imports and Import Payments Imports are classified as follows: goods whose import is prohibited; goods whose import is sub- ject to prior licensing by the Institute of Foreign Trade; and goods that may be imported freely without license. These liberalized imports are estimated to correspond to about 20 per cent of 1969 imports; they comprise mainly certain raw materials and some types of machinery. All import registrations by public sector agencies are screened by the Institute of Foreign Trade to de- termine whether local substitutes are available. The prohibited list comprises mainly such items as arms and habit-forming drugs, and certain food- 101 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA stuffs, such as corn and milk; imports of goods on this list are licensed from time to time. Prior registration of the import transaction at the Institute of Foreign Trade is required for all imports other than those with an f.o.b. value of less than US$20 (or US$40 for books and phar- maceuticals). The charge for import registration is Col$ 100.00 (in some cases Col$5.00) plus a consular invoice tax of 1 per cent. Advance import deposits in Colombian currency must be made with the Bank of the Republic before import registration is permitted; the deposit is returned 90 days after the goods have cleared customs. The advance import deposit is payable at one of the following rates, depending on the type of goods: 1, 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 40, 50, 65, 70, 90, 100, 120, 130, 150, 170, and 200 per cent; those important in practice are the rates of 1, 5, 30, 70, and 130 per cent. The following imports are exempt from prior deposits: nonreimbursable imports (i.e., goods for which no foreign exchange is requ ired); imports brought into Colombia under special import-export arrangements (Vallejo P lan ); goods included in the Colombian National List and the special lists granting concessions to LAFTA countries; goods financed with U.S. AID credits,1 noncommercial capital goods and com- ponents imported by the Government, Depart- ments, municipalities, official undertakings, semi- official bodies, and public service agencies, and noncommercial goods when intended for mineral exploration or operations; goods imported by the National Federation of Coffee Growers for its own use; goods exempt by virtue of an inter- national agreement; capital goods, components, and raw materials imported by firms sponsored and supported by the Government, and firms holding foreign commitments backed by the Gov- ernment; machinery and equipment coming under the tar iff headings for the basic industries; goods of prime necessity imported by the Institute of Agricultural Marketing ( IDEMA ); most imports by universities and other nonprofitmaking educa- tional institutions; scientific and literary books, newspapers, and reviews that make a contribution to the culture of the Colombian people, together with capital goods for the production of such items; and sacramental wine. The advance deposit is calculated on the f.o.b. value of the goods, at the average rate for exchange certificates for the previous month. A prior exchange license is required for all payments for imports; licenses are granted by the Exchange Office, provided that it is satisfied that the goods have been cleared through cus- toms and that payment is due. At least 20 days prior to filing an application for an exchange license, the importer must provide a peso advance deposit equivalent to 95 per cent of the exchange requested, calculated at a rate announced monthly by the Ministry of Finance on the basis of the average exchange certificate price for the preceding month. Exempt are import payments by the Government, Departments, municipal- ities, and official agencies, and payments for imports financed with foreign credits extended to the Bank of the Republic, goods for general con- sumption imported by the Institute of Agricultural Marketing, and payment for the crude oil acquired by the national petroleum company (Empresa Colombiana de Petroleos—Ecopetrol) for refining in Colombia. In addition to customs duties, there is an ad valorem tax on imports equal to 3 per cent of the c.i.f. value. Of the amounts collected, 50 per cent goes to the Export Promotion Fund, while the remaining 50 per cent goes to the national budget. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are made at the exchange certificate rate. All payments for invis- ibles are subject to exchange licenses, which are granted according to officially established prior- ities and within the limits set monthly in a foreign exchange budget by the Monetary Board. No advance deposit is required for invisibles, except for travel allowances, for which a 100 per cent prior deposit in local currency is required.2 Pay- ments for travel abroad are limited to US$30 a person a day, not to exceed US$1,350 a person 1 Goods so financed that are included in the import free list require an advance deposit of 10 per cent of the deposit payable on the same commodities when not imported under U.S. aid. 2 The deposit must be made when application is made for foreign exchange and it is released upon the trav- eler's return to Colombia, provided that he has stayed abroad the number of days for which he was granted exchange. 102 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution a year; this limit may be raised to US$50 a day and US$2,250 a year when the travel may be especially beneficial to the country; transfers to professionals and technicians undertaking courses abroad are restricted to US$450 a month, while for other students the ceilings vary from US$120 to US$200 a month, depending on the cost of living in the country concerned. Foreign tourists who have stayed in Colombia for a period not exceeding three months may, on leaving the coun- try, purchase foreign currency not exceeding US$60 on presentation of their boarding pass. Colombian nationals and resident foreigners are required to pay a travel tax of Col$500 when- ever they leave the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of Colombian products may be made freely, except when the law provides otherwise. Prior application for registration is required for all exports except crude oil, samples, and Colom- bian products in noncommercial quantities. If the application meets all legal requirements, approval is stamped on the application form, i.e., registration is granted. When registering an export transaction, the exporter must provide a personal guarantee in pesos (but without depositing any amoun t) corresponding to the full export value, to ensure that the proceeds will be surrendered to the Bank of the Republic. The periods for sur- rendering export proceeds are as follows: ( 1) for coffee exports, within 20 days from the date of registration of the sale contract, if the said con- tract is used with shipping documents inside the country, and within 10 days from the date of the bill of lading if the contract is used with that document; (2) for banana exports, 60 per cent of the value must be surrendered within 10 days following the registration of the export, and the remaining 40 per cent within 60 days after the registration; ( 3) for exports of products contain- ing imported raw materials, 180 days from the grant of registration; and (4) for other exports, generally within 90 days from the same date. The Bank of the Republic is empowered in certain cases to retain a portion of the exchange proceeds surrendered by the exporter of any prod- uct to repay old foreign debts incurred by the exporter concerned. All exchange proceeds from exports, except those from the export of crude COLOMBIA oil not produced by Ecopetrol, must be surren- dered to the Bank of the Republic. On surrendering their export proceeds to the Bank of the Republic, exporters of commodities other than coffee, petroleum and petroleum prod- ucts, and cattle hides receive tax credit certificates in an amount of 15 per cent of the total earnings surrendered, converted at the exchange rate used for import deposits and payments. These certifi- cates, which are freely negotiable, are accepted at par af ter one year by tax offices for the pay- ment of income tax, additional taxes, customs duties, and sales taxes. The surrender of foreign currency earned by exports is carried out by exchanging the foreign currency for exchange certificates that are nego- tiable in the bankers' market. The surrender price for exports other than coffee varies with fluctuations in prices in the world market. Coffee exports are subject to the following additional regulations: (1) The mini- mum surrender price (reintegro) is fixed at US$61.50 per 70-kilogram bag. (2) Exporters pay a tax at the rate of 20 per cent ad valorem. Of this tax, 4 percentage points are paid to the National Coffee Fund while the remainder pro- vides revenue for the Special Exchange Account, of which the net product forms a contribution to the national budget. (3) Exporters must surren- der in kind to the National Federation of Coffee Growers and without payment the equivalent of 20 per cent of the volume of excelso coffee that they wish to export (retention). Export proceeds from coffee may be provision- ally surrendered in advance of actual surrender, provided that the latter takes place within 90 days, at a provisional exchange rate of Col$15.50 per U.S. dollar; the payment to the exporter is subsequently adjusted for the effective exchange rate applicable on the day of actual surrender. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered; they are converted at the certifi- cate market buying rate. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers are effected at the certificate ma rket rate. 103 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA All foreign investment in Colombia and the movement of capital previously imported must be registered with the Exchange Office of the Bank of the Republic. Capital imports other than amounts of less than US$100,000 or capital imported for petroleum exploration or exploita- tion, or for mineral exploration, also require prior approval by the Planning Department. Capital registration entitles the debtor to export profits and to repatriate capital at the certificate market rate on certain conditions. The transfer of profits is limited to 14 per cent of the net capital value in any one year, except for profits resulting from investments of outstanding importance or involv- ing special risks in view of the circumstances pre- vailing in the international money marke t. Capi- tal invested in the petroleum industry is subject to special rules and to contractual provisions. Likewise, contracts involving royalties, com- missions, trademarks, patents, and similar ar- rangements must be registered with the Exchange Office to enable the beneficiary to make transfers abroad. Colombian investors abroad must surrender to the Bank of the Republic not only the interest, profits, commissions, and royalties but also the proceeds of the sale or liquidation of the prin- cipal investment at the prevailing certificate mar- ket rate. Gold Physical and juridical persons may trade in Colombia in gold coins for collection purposes only. With this exception, only the Bank of the Republic is entitled to purchase, sell, hold, import, or export gold. The Bank of the Republic pur- chases the gold produced in the country at daily world market prices and is empowered to pay up to 50 per cent in foreign currency on presentation by foreign capital mining companies of exchange licenses entitling them to make payments abroad for services, dividends, capital repayments, taxes, etc. The remaining 50 per cent and all payments to the small producers are paid in pesos at the certificate market exchange rate. On selling their gold to the Bank of the Republic, the producers receive tax credit certificates equivalent to 15 per cent of the value of the gold sold. The certificates held by the small producers are bought by the Bank of the Republic in Colombian pesos at their nominal value. The Bank of the Republic makes domestic sales of gold for industrial use either direct or through the Colombian Mining Association, on presentation of exchange licenses, at US$35 an ounce,3 plus a charge of 5 per cent for refining and handling and 10 per cent for the Special Exchange Account. The Bank's exports of gold are made at world market prices. Imports of gold also are a monopoly of the Bank of the Republic; imports of nonmonetary gold are not normally undertaken. The assay and refining houses and the mining companies producing gold are under the super- vision of the Superintendency of Exchange Con- trol. In addition, the mining companies must obtain a license from the Superintendency in order to carry on their operations. 3 W i th effect from Janua ry 1, 1969, at free m a rk et prices, p lus the same charges. 104 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1968) (pesos per U.S. dollar) Buying Selling COLOMBIA 13.50 (Certificate Market Rate less 20%, Fluctu- ating Rate) Coffee exports 16.88 (Certificate Market Rate, Fluctuating Rate) Net proceeds from exports of crude oil and petro- leum derivatives by Ecopetrol (Article 158 of Decree-Law No. 444) .4 Exports of cattle hides. Exports from free ports. All receipts from invisibles and capital transfers. 19.29 (Average Certificate Market Rate of Pre- vious Month plus 15% Tax Credit Certifi- cates, Fluctuating Rate) All other exports.5 Changes during 1968 During the year, the advance deposit require- ments for imports were on numerous occasions reduced by the shifting of commodities to groups subject to a lower rate of deposit. Also during 1968, the tax on coffee export proceeds was reduced by % percentage point a month, from 23 per cent to 20 per cent. January 17. The advance import deposit re- quirements for raw materials for the manufac ture of paper and textiles were reduced to 1 per cent and 30 per cent, respectively. March 1. A reciprocal credit agreement be- tween the central banks of Colombia and Bolivia went into effect. March 12. The limit applied to the transfer of profits on most foreign capital invested in Colom- bia was raised from 10 per cent to 14 per cent of the net capital value. March 31. The bilateral payments agreement with Denmark was terminated. April 3. The minimum surrender price for coffee exports was raised from US$61.70 to US$62.70 per 70-kilogram bag. May 9. A number of essential products, cor- responding to 150 tar iff positions, were exempted 4 Receipts from exports of crude oil by foreign-owned companies need not be surrendered. 5 The Bank of the Republic purchases gold from domestic producers at a price corresponding to Col$ 19.29 per US$1, equ iva lent to the certificate market buy ing rate of the previous month plus 15 per cent. 9.00 (Fixed Rate) Purchases of crude oil from foreign-owned com- panies for domestic refining. 16.95 (Certificate Market Rate, Fluctuating Rate) All other transactions. from import licensing and were included in the import free list. This list previously was insignifi- cant. May 22. Resolution No. 22 allowed the advance surrender of exchange proceeds from coffee exports, provided that the surrender of the actual export proceeds took place within 90 days. The advance surrender could take place at a provisional rate of Col$15.50 per U.S. dollar, which was subject to fu r ther adjustment on the basis of the rate applicable at the date of surren- der of the actual proceeds. May 29. Regulations went into effect for the registration of foreign investments in the explora- tion and exploitation of natural gas, and for the transfer of the capital and profits concerned. On May 31, remittances abroad of profits on such capital were limited to 20 per cent. June 1. Resolution No. 24 abolished the capi- tal exchange market; all foreign exchange trans- actions were henceforth to be conducted through the exchange certificate market, where the exchange rate remained a fluctuating one. All regulations pertaining to the certificate market became applicable to transactions previously channeled through the capital market, including the requirement of a prior exchange license for all outward transfers. Resolution No. 24 also provided that the Bank of the Republic could purchase foreign exchange that previously had access to the capital marke t, such as funds brought in by tourists, at the certificate rate, in amounts up to US$1,000, without issuing ex- 105 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA change certificates. This facility could be dele- gated to other credit institutions. June 5. Resolution No. 27 established that the 95 per cent advance deposit on applications for exchange certificates was not required for trans- actions previously effected through the capital market. June 12. Resolution No. 29 provided that the 10 per cent tax on the Bank of the Republic's sales of gold for industrial use was to be paid into the Special Exchange Account instead of to the Export Promotion Fund, as previously. The Resolution specified that industrial sales would continue to be made at a price equivalent to US$35 a troy ounce, calculated at the selling rate for exchange certificates, plus 5 per cent for smelt- ing and handling expenses, and 10 per cent for the Special Exchange Account. June 12. The 1 per cent tax on the legalization of consular invoices was henceforth calculated at the exchange rate indicated monthly by the Min- istry of Finance for the payment of ad valorem customs charges. June 18. Certain commodities were added to the import free list. June 18. Materials and equipment for the pro- duction of fishing vessels became exempt from advance deposits. June 25. All imports by official entities were to be submitted to a prior approval system admin- istered by the Superintendency of Foreign Trade. July 1. The Bank of the Republic started exporting gold at world market prices. Retroac- tive to this date, by a decision taken subsequently, the Bank of the Republic made its purchases of newly mined gold also at world market prices. July 10. The local currency deposit required in respect of exchange applications by residents wishing to travel abroad was increased from 30 per cent to 100 per cent of the amount concerned. July 29. Imports made by the National Feder- ation of Coffee Growers for its own use became exempt from advance deposits. August 5. U.S. AID-financed imports of goods included in the free list became subject to an import deposit equivalent to 40 per cent of the standard rates of deposit; previously, they were exempt from advance deposit. 106 September 16. The portion of the volume sold abroad that exporters of excelso coffee were required to surrender in kind was increased from 19 per cent to 20 per cent. September 25. The Bank of the Republic signed a payments agreement with Rumania, to replace one previously signed by the National Federation of Coffee Growers. October 11. Decree No. 2569 was issued con- cerning the additional profit remittances up to 3 per cent a year that could be made when profit remittances on foreign capital in the previous year had fallen short of 14 per cent. The decree also contained provisions concerning the effective date of the registration of foreign capital. October 23. Decree No. 2680 reduced the prior import deposit for U.S. AID-financed imports included in the free list from 40 per cent to 10 per cent of the normal rates applicable to the commodities concerned. November 28. Imports of technical, educa- tional, and laboratory equipment by universities and other nonprofitmaking educational institu- tions became exempt from advance deposits. December 3. The minimum surrender price for coffee exports was lowered from US$62.70 to US$61.50 per 70-kilogram bag. December 4. The Superintendency of Foreign Trade was reorganized and renamed the Institute of Foreign Trade (INCOMEX). December 4. A new trade agreement with the U.S.S.R. was ratified. Provision was made for a subsequent revision of the payments arrange- ments between Colombia and the U.S.S.R., as a result of which settlements would be made in con- vertible exchange. December 10. Those items on the import free list that were still subject to import license when imported from LAFTA countries were freed from license irrespective of origin. December 14. An export credit insurance sys- tem was introduced. December 26. The Exchange Control Prefec- ture was renamed Superintendency of Exchange Control and was attached to the Ministry of Finance. December 30. The bilateral payments arrange- ments with the U.S.S.R. were terminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONGO (BRAZZAVILLE) x Exchange System No par value for the currency of Congo (Braz- zaville) has been established with the Fund. The un it of currency is the CFA Franc, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.2 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de TA f r ique Equatoriale et du Came- roun (BCEAEC) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. All purchases of foreign currency and amounts credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs are subject to a commission which is payable to the Office of Foreign Finan- cial Relations. The exchange control measures of Congo (Brazzaville) do not apply to (1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, Mali, Maur i tan ia, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Congo (Braz- zaville) itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only with for- eign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control The Office of Foreign Financial Relations in the Ministry of Finance and the Budget super- vises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or sale of foreign securities in Congo (Brazzav i l le), and inward and ou tward direct 1 In view of certain changes that took place early in 1969 (see note at the end of this su rvey ), this survey presents the position on February 14, 1969. 2 The CFA franc circulating in Congo (Brazzaville) is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, and Gabon. investment. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance and the Budget, who has delegated his approval authority to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations and the authorized banks. All payments and receipts between Congo (Brazzaville) and foreign countries that are made through banks are registered, for statistical pur- poses only, by the BCEAEC, through the inter- mediary of the institution executing the transfer; the BCEAEC also addresses inquiries to the prin- cipal firms and agencies concerning inward and outward payments made in other manners, partic- ularly by the offsetting of claims and debts. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, except those for gold, which are granted by the Office of Foreign Financial Relations. Prescription of Currency Congo (Brazzaville) is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAEC maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account coun- tries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury. Settlements with mainland China are made through special accounts established under a bilateral pay- ments agreement.3 Settlements with all other countries are usually made in any of the curren- cies of those countries —provided that the cur- rencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All payments to Portugal require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance and the Budget. All settlements between Congo (Brazza- ville) and Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA 3 There are inoperative payments agreements w i th No r th Korea and Ma l i. 107 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONGO (BRAZZAVILLE) banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports of virtually all commodities from coun- tries in the French Franc Area and from EEC countries other than France may be made freely. All imports of Portuguese or Rhodesian origin are prohibited. Imports from all non-EEC coun- tries outside the French Franc Area are subject to licensing in accordance with an annual import program. This program is determined by a joint French-Congolese Committee. The import pro- gram does not include petroleum imports, for which a joint quota is determined for the coun- tries of the Central African Customs and Eco- nomic Union. The quotas may be used to import goods originating in any country outside the French Franc Area. Licenses for liberalized com- modities originating in EEC countries other than France are issued automatically. Imports of cer- tain products from non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to special ceil- ings. Furthermore, imports of certain products from some low-wage countries of the Far East are limited by a special ceiling. Imports of certain goods are not permitted un- less the importer also buys a certain quan t i ty of the local product. The National Trading Office (Office National du Commerce or OFNACOM) has a monopoly over certain imports, including hardware, rice, and salted fish from all sources, certain cotton piece goods from Japan, and certain other textiles from mainland China. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Licenses for imports from foreign countries require the visa of the Foreign Trade Bureau and that of the Office of Foreign Financial Relations. The approved import license entitles importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in 108 the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Resident tourists traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 100,000 a year for each person (CFAF 50,000 for children under t e n ); any foreign exchange remaining after return to Congo (Brazzaville) must be surrendered. For business travel to foreign countries, there is a spe- cial allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 10,000 a person a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 300,000 a trip. The travel allocations ob- tained by residents must be recorded in a personal foreign exchange booklet (carnet de change). The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in Congo (Brazzaville) is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Travelers going to for- eign countries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 10,000 in BCEAEC banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BCEAEC banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry or, if no declaration was made, up to the equivalent of CFAF 25,000; they may reconvert up to CFAF 25,000 in BCEAEC bank- notes into foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. With the exception of cotton and minerals, exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely; exports to all destinations of coffee, cacao, palm oil, groundnuts, bananas, cotton, gold, and diamonds are subject to individual license. All other exports are free of individual license. Cer- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tain agricultural commodities are exported by an official agency, the National Marketing Office for Agricultural Products (Office national de com- mercialisation des produits agricoles or O N C P A ). Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatriated, generally within 180 days of arrival of the commodities at their destination. Export proceeds received in curren- cies other than those of France or another Opera- tions Account country must be surrendered within a month of the due date. All export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amoun ts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected, and if received in foreign currency surrendered, within a month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAEC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins). Capital All capital movements between Congo (Braz- zaville) and Rhodesia are prohibited. Capital movements between Congo (Brazzaville) and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such coun- tries are permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in Congo (Brazzaville) by residents or nonresi- dents must be deposited with authorized banks in Congo (Brazzaville). Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, offering for sale, advertising, or CONGO (BRAZZAVILLE) introduction of foreign securities in Congo; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Congo (Brazzav i l le), the control measures do not apply to France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Direct investments abroad 4 require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance and the Bud- get, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the fu ll or partial liquidation of such invest- ments also requires the prior approval of the Min- ister, unless the operation involves the relinquish- ing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Congo (Brazzaville) 5 require prior declaration to the Minister of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvest- ment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declara- tion, during which he may request the postpone- ment of the projects submitted to him. The fu ll or partial liquidation of direct investments in Congo (Brazzaville) must also be declared to the Minis- ter, unless the operation involves the relinquish- ing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct investment in Congo (Brazzaville). Both the mak- ing and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Congolese investments abroad or foreign investments in Congo (Brazzaville), must be reported to the Minister within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a com- pany or enterprise. Mere participation is not con- sidered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a com- pany whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. 4 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly con- trolled by persons in Congo (Brazzaville) and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Congo (Brazzaville). 5 Including those involving the cession between non- residents of a participation in the capital of a Congolese company. 109 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONGO (BRAZZAVILLE) The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Congo (Brazzaville) requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are opera- tions in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Congolese Government and ( 2) shares similar to securities whose issue, adver- tising, or offering for sale in Congo (Brazzaville) has previously been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and the Budget. The following are, how- ever, exempt from this authorization: ( 1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Congo (Brazzaville) and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and ( 4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under ( 4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation. Lending by residents to nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and the Budget. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: ( 1) loans granted by registered banks and (2) other loans when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The making of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation. Under the Investment Code of June 1961, as amended on December 29, 1962, any enterprise established in Congo (Brazzav i l le), whether domestic or foreign, is granted, under certain con- ditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports as well as exemption from direct taxes on specified income. The Code also provides for three categories of preferential treatment, in accordance with which 110 fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in specified new industries or in the expansion of existing ones. Preferential treat- ment A applies to enterprises whose activity and market are limited to the national territory of Congo (Brazzav i l le); it is granted for a period of up to 10 years. Preferential treatment B applies to enterprises whose activity and market include the territory of two or more states of the Equa- torial Customs Union (the Central African Republic, Chad, Congo (Brazzaville), and Gabon). Preferential treatment C is reserved for enterprises of prime importance to the country's economic development; it provides for stabiliza- tion of their fiscal charges for up to 20 years. The gran t ing of any one of the three kinds of preferen- tial treatment automatically includes the applica- tion of specified exemptions from direct taxes which are granted under the provisions of the ordinary law (see above). Requests for approval for preferential treat- ment must be submitted to the Minister of Finance and the Budget, who, after examining the docu- ments, transmits them to the Investment Com- mission. A f ter an opinion has been given by that Commission, the project is submitted to the Coun- cil of Ministers. Preferential treatment A is granted by decree issued by the Council of Min- isters. Preferential treatment B is granted by an act of the Executive Committee of the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) upon the recommendation of the Council of Min- isters. Preferential treatment C requires legis- lation. Gold By virtue of Decree No. 66/236 of July 29, 1966, as amended by Decree No. 66/265 of August 29, 1966, residents are free to hold in Congo (Brazzaville) gold in the form of coins, art objects, or jewelry, but they require the prior authorization of the Minister of Finance and the Budget to hold gold in any other form or to import or export gold in any form. Exempt from the latter requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAEC and (2) imports and exports of manu- factured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. The agency ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOGAREM has a monopoly over the export of newly mined gold. Changes during 1968 April 2. Imports of cement from any source were prohibited. June 1. With minor exceptions, imports of commodities originating in and shipped from EEC countries other than France were liberalized. June 4. Decree No. 68/150, by suspending any contrary provisions of Decree No. 67/150 of June 30, 1967 and of the regulations issued for its implementation, re-established temporary exchange controls in relations with foreign coun- tries. Nonresident accounts in Congo (Brazzaville) could not be credited with BCEAEC banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury. June 4. Order No. 2155/MF/B&M defined foreign countries as all countries other than Congo (Brazzaville), France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries. It also listed the types of payment to foreign countries that could be made freely through an authorized bank or the Postal Administration. The order intro- duced an exchange allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 100,000 a person a trip for travel to for- eign countries. The export by travelers to foreign countries of BCEAEC banknotes was limited to CFAF 100,000 a person a trip. June 7. Order No. 2156/MF/B&M delegated to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations the approval authority of the Minister of Finance in regard to exchange control matters. NOTE. —The following changes took place early in 1969: January 30. Decree No. 69/35 introduced new exchange control regulations applicable in relations with foreign countries. It revoked and replaced Decree No. 68/150 and suspended any contrary provisions of Decree No. 67/150 and of the regulations issued for its implementation. All import and export transactions relating to foreign countries had to be domiciled with authorized banks. The decree prohibited, except with the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, all pay- CONGO (BRAZZAVILLE) ments and transfers by residents to foreign coun- tries, or within Congo (Brazzaville) in favor of a nonresident; all imports and exports of gold, means of payment, and securities; and all trans- actions and transfers leading to the constitution of assets abroad by a resident, or to the holding of foreign means of payment in Congo (Brazza- ville) by a resident. All claims on foreign coun- tries or nonresidents resulting from exports, earn- ings, or income had to be collected and, where appropriate, surrendered. All foreign securities, foreign exchange, and titles representing claims on foreign countries had to be deposited with an authorized bank, whether they were held by resi- dents or nonresidents. January 30. Order No. 0248 listed the types of payment that could be made freely, through an authorized bank or the Postal Administration, to foreign countries. Payments up to CFAF 12,500 could be made freely, without indication of their purpose. Nonresident accounts in Congo (Braz- zaville) could not be credited with BCEAEC banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. All amounts subject to surrender had to be col- lected, and if received in foreign currencies sur- rendered to authorized banks, within a month of the due date. Such payments could not be col- lected in banknotes or to the debit of a postal checking account in Congo (Brazzaville). The due date for export receipts had in principle to be within 180 days after arrival of the commodi- ties at their destination. The deposit of foreign securities, etc., had to be made within a month. The order also contained definitions of "foreign countries," "residents," and "nonresidents." For- eign countries were defined as on June 4, above. The order revoked and replaced Order No. 2155/MF/B&M. January 30. Decree No. 69/34 submitted to control by the Minister of Finance all claims and liabilities in CFA francs and in any foreign cur- rency that banks in Congo (Brazzaville) had vis- a-vis foreign countries. This control could be delegated to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations. February 14. Order No. 0353 required the prior approval of the Office of Foreign Financial Relations to send means of payment, titles to claims or property, and domestic or foreign secu- 111 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONGO (BRAZZAVILLE) rities to a foreign country through the mail or by parcel post. The authorized banks were exempt from this prior approval. February 14. Order No. 0354 provided that resident and nonresident travelers could not take out more than CFAF 10,000 in CFA banknotes (CFAF 5,000 in CFA banknotes or foreign bank- notes for those going abroad for less than 24 hou r s ). Imports by resident or nonresident travelers of French banknotes and of banknotes issued by any institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury would be free, as would be imports of any means of payment denominated in a foreign currency. An exchange allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 100,000 a person a year (CFAF 50,000 for children under t en) was introduced for tour- ist travel to foreign countries, and one of up to CFAF 10,000 a day (subject to a max imum of CFAF 300,000 a t r ip) for business travel to foreign countries. Allocations in excess of CFAF 300,000 a trip for business travel could be issued by an exceptional authorization of the Office of Foreign Financial Relations. A personal foreign exchange booklet (carnet de change) was introduced in which all travel allocations had to be recorded. Nonresident travelers could take out, in addition to CFAF 10,000 in BCEAEC bank- notes, any foreign currency declared upon entry or, if no declaration was made, foreign currency up to the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. February 14. Circular No. 021/MF estab- lished approval procedures for payments and transfers to foreign countries. Payments up to CFAF 12,500 could no longer be made freely; any resident could make payments abroad up to CFAF 12,500 a year without indication of their purpose, and such payments had to be recorded in his foreign exchange booklet and were deducted from his tourist travel allocation. The circular also established the terms on which foreign exchange could be purchased forward. This would only be allowed for import payments but not until the detailed regulations were announced. The circular also prescribed procedures for payments for imports. Import licenses for goods from foreign countries required the visa of the Foreign Trade Bureau and that of the Office of Foreign Finan- cial Relations. Nonresident travelers could upon departure reconvert up to CFAF 25,000 into for- eign currency. No resident or nonresident traveler could take out more than the equivalent of CFAF 10,000 in BCEAEC banknotes. Residents could not take out more than half their tourist travel allocation in the form of foreign banknotes. Foreign workers could transfer their entire net salary abroad, within three months of receipt. Purchases of foreign currency and amounts credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs remained subject to the commission payable into the account of the Office of Foreign Financial Rela- tions with the Treasury; the rate of commission is fixed annually by the Minister of Finance and the Budget. February 14. The Office of Foreign Financial Relations issued Circular No. 022/MF to the authorized banks, concerning Foreign Accounts in Francs and foreign dossiers for securities. All overdrafts on Foreign Accounts in Francs and in general all advances to nonresidents required prior approval. 112 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of the Demo- cratic Republic of Congo has been established with the Fund. The official unit of currency is the Zaire. The gold content of the zaire is 1.777432 grams. The official rate of exchange for the Bel- gian f ranc is Z 1 = BF 100, which corresponds to Z 1 = US$2. The buying and selling rates for currencies other than the Belgian franc are based on the fixed rate for the Belgian franc and the official market rates for these other currencies in Brussels. However, the National Bank of Congo buys and sells most foreign currencies against zai'res at rates differing not more than % of 1 per cent from the cross rates resulting from the official par values. It charges a commission of %0 of 1 per cent. The official buying and selling rate for the U.S. dollar was Z 50.0450 per US$100 on December 31, 1968. Forward exchange trans- actions are prohibited. Administration of Control The National Bank of Congo has regulatory authority over all foreign trade and payments. Specifically, the Bank has discretionary power to authorize payments and receipts in foreign exchange by residents of the Democratic Repub- lic, and to permit the importation, exportation, and transit of goods. Prescription of Currency Payments from nonresidents must be received in listed convertible currencies.1 Special authori- zation for the acceptance of other currencies may only be given in respect of currencies that can be exchanged freely without a discount. Payments to nonresidents must be made in the listed currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of nonresident accounts: Nonresident Accounts in- Zai'res and Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts. 1 The listed currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts in Zdires may only be debited for settlements in the Democratic Republic. Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts may be credited for any permitted payment to a non- resident; they may be debited freely for transfers to other Resident and Nonresident Foreign Cur- rency Accounts and to accounts abroad. Nonresi- dent nationals require special authorization from the National Bank to open these accounts with authorized banks; nonresident foreigners may open them freely. Imports and Import Payments The importation of a number of goods is pro- hibited on grounds of public policy. Imports valued at not more than Z 50 c.i.f. do not require a license, provided that they are not intended for resale and are not settled with offi- cial exchange. All other imports are subject to individual licensing, but licenses are granted freely. Applications for import licenses, whether requir- ing foreign exchange or not, are made initially to authorized banks in Kinshasa. If the prior visa of the National Bank is required, applications are forwarded to the National Bank after certification. Af ter approval of the application by the National Bank, the import license application is returned to the authorized bank for validation. Banks may validate without the prior visa of the National Bank licenses relating to spare parts for trucks and other transportation material; imports by the Government and public entities of all goods other than transportation equipment; seeds, mineral products, fertilizers and other chemical products, and serums, vaccines, and plasma; imports financed by U.S. aid; and all other commodities on the National Bank's List I. Import licenses are validated by the authorized banks without undue delay and remain valid for customs clearance during a period of six months starting from the first day of the month following that in which validation by the commercial bank takes place. Foreign exchange is made available for all licensed imports, the validated license con- stituting at the same time an exchange license; for payments purposes, the license remains valid as long as the relevant payments have not been com- 113 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO pleted. Where the exporter requires fu ll or partial payment upon shipment, the authorized bank must not validate the license unless it receives a deposit in local currency corresponding to the fu ll c.i.f. cost of the merchandise. The counterpart of the value of goods imported under the U.S. import support program and the agricultural aid pro- gram must be deposited within 180 and 120 days, respectively, after their arrival. Payments for Invisibles Policy related to payments for invisibles is for- mulated by the National Bank. Payments are subject to authorization by the National Bank, which is given or refused on a nondiscriminatory basis. The Bank will not authorize exchange for the payment of commissions in favor of shippers or purchasing agents or, except for imports pay- able on arrival, for insurance on imports. All other payments for services performed by non- residents are in principle authorized. Transfers abroad of salaries of foreign nationals are author- ized without limitation, provided that at least Z 100 a month is deducted for local living expenses. Transfers in respect of certain adminis- trative expenses abroad by enterprises, interest on private loans, and certain portions of insur- ance premiums are, as a rule, authorized. Net profits of firms with foreign capital participation are transferable up to an amount proportionate to that participation. Fares for travel abroad may be paid in the Democratic Republic in local currency; for resi- dent foreign nationals, however, the fare must not exceed the price of a re turn trip by a direct route to the country of their origin. Congolese nationals traveling abroad may buy foreign exchange up to the equivalent of Z 400 a trip; applications exceeding this amount are subject to individual approval by the National Bank. Upon presentation of a valid passport, Congolese nationals may sell up to Z 100 every 15 days in countries with which the National Bank has con- cluded an arrangement for the repurchase of these banknotes.2 There are no limitations on the amount of domestic or foreign banknotes that travelers may take out. 2 These countries are Belgium, France, and Switzer- land. 114 Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require individual licenses, with the exception of exports covered by the general licenses granted to GECOMIN and METALKAT, the principal mining companies. Banks are nor- mally authorized to grant licenses to exporters who submit a declaration in which they under- take to collect the exchange proceeds. The decla- ration must specify the nature of the merchandise to be exported, the price, and the currency in which payment is to be received. Export licenses are normally valid for three months; within this period, the proceeds must be received and sur- rendered. Most exports of minerals are subject to special regulations to take into account the time required for processing abroad. For mineral prod- ucts, a provisional payment of about 70 per cent of the shipment's estimated value has to be sur- rendered within 8 days after embarkation. For diamond exports, two thirds of the value estab- lished at a preliminary examination in the Demo- cratic Republic has to be surrendered before the shipment is dispatched. Export proceeds from coffee have to be surrendered within 45 days after shipment. Receipts from other agricultural exports must generally be repatriated within three months of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. There are no limitations on the import of domestic or foreign banknotes by travelers. Capital With minor exceptions, transfers abroad of capital owned by residents or nonresidents are not permitted. The sale of real estate located in the Democratic Republic can only be made to the Congolese Government, against payment in zaires; gratuitous transfers of real estate are subject to approval by executive ordinance. When the local currency part is paid by the debtor, amortization on foreign loans can be transferred in accordance with the terms of contracts that the National Bank has endorsed to guarantee the availability of exchange for such transfers. Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and industrial users are not ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. The import and export of gold in any form, except jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler, require the prior approval of the National Bank; licenses for imports are not normally issued. Producers are required to sell 10 per cent of their production at the official price of US$35 an ounce to the National Bank. Changes during 1968 January 5. The amounts of the existing autho- rizations for transfers of professional earnings were increased by 15 per cent; arrears of such transfers, which dated back to before 1960, began to be released. January 12. Imports financed f rom U.S. AID credits did not require prior licensing by the National Bank. February. Congolese nationals holding travel cards issued by the National Bank could no longer sell up to Z 100 in Congo banknotes every two weeks to banks in Brazzaville. March 20. Applications for licenses to import seeds, mineral products, fertilizers, and a number of chemical products were no longer subject to prior approval by the National Bank. March 26. All goods in import List II were given the same licensing treatment as goods in List I. Applications for licenses could henceforth be presented weekly and would be processed within eight days. April 1. The import of portland cement was prohibited. May 30. Applications for import licenses could be presented daily and would be processed w i th in two days. May 30. The National Bank ceased issuing travel cards. DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO June 19. The official rates for all currencies listed by the National Bank other than the Belgian franc henceforth were quoted on the basis of (a) their average rates on the official exchange market in Brussels and ( b) a fixed official rate of Z 1 = BF 100. The National Bank would make purchases and sales against za'ires of most foreign currencies other than Belgian francs at rates differ- ing not more than % of 1 per cent either way f rom the cross rates resulting from the official par values. The Bank would henceforth apply a uni- form commission of %0 of 1 per cent. July 13. The prior visa of the National Bank was not required for imports of goods in List I (annexed to Circular 94 of the National Bank) if these imports were paid for after the arrival of goods. July 19. The prior visa of the National Bank was not required for imports of serums, vaccines, and plasma. August 8. The prior visa of the National Bank was not required for imports of goods in List I, irrespective of the terms of payment. November 7. Transfers of savings and insur- ance or pension premiums by expatriate workers were required to be made direct to the accounts abroad of these persons or the relevant insurance companies or pension funds. December 3. Import licenses henceforth were valid, for the purpose of making payments, for the entire period during which payments were to be made. For customs clearance, however, the validity remained six months. Imports with a value not exceeding Z 50, and not destined for resale or settled w i th official exchange, no longer required a license. December 24. The transfer by companies with foreign participation was authorized of net profits proportionate to the amount of foreign capital participation, beginning with profits shown in the profit and loss statement for 1968. 115 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.134139 gram of fine gold per Costa Rican Colon or C 6.625 = US$1. The Central Bank buys exchange derived from exports and other exchange tendered to it at a fixed rate of C 6.62 per US$1. Exchange at the official rate is granted for listed essential imports, speci- fied invisibles, and a few types of capital trans- fers. Official exchange is also granted for all imports originating in Central America or Pan- ama when covered by the Central American free trade treaties or Costa Rica's special trade agreements with Panama, even when these com- modities are not included in the list of those eligible for official exchange. Receipts from cer- tain invisibles must be surrendered at the official rate. All other sales and purchases may be made freely in a fluctuating free market, in which the rate is pegged from time to time. The buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in the free market were C 7.32 and C 7.35, respectively, per US$1 on December 28, 1968. Mixing rates may arise from the fact that transfers at the official rate of interest and dividends on registered capital are limited to 10 per cent of the registered amount, while amounts in excess of that percentage can be transferred through the free market. Costa Rica accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from Feb- ruary 1, 1965. Administration of Control The exchange controls are operated by the Central Bank of Costa Rica. Purchases and sales of official market exchange are made through the Central Bank or through commercial banks acting as its agents. The free exchange market is conducted by commercial banks and licensed exchange houses. Commercial banks deal in this market with the authorization of the Central Bank, for its account and at its risk. Other resi- dents do not require a license from the Central Bank to effect transactions in the free market. Prescription of Currency In practice, nearly all exchange transactions in Costa Rica are expressed in U.S. dollars. Pay- 116 ments to Poland may be made through special U.S. dollar accounts established under a pay- ments agreement with that country. Payments to El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nica- ragua in respect of trade and specified invisibles are made in Costa Rican colones and at the official rate through the Camara de Compensa- cion Centroamericana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their countries; the documents must be expressed in colones and require approval by the Central Bank, which is given for payments for all imports of Central American origin and for those current invisibles and capital transfers to which the regu- lations of the official exchange market apply. The central banks of these four countries may also engage in transactions in Costa Rican notes and coins, up to the equivalent of US$40,000 a month for Nicaragua and up to the equivalent of US$10,000 a month for each of the other countries. Payments to Mexico in respect of trade and invisibles that are eligible for access to the official market may also be made in Costa Rican colones through the clearinghouse, in accordance with the Agreement on Clearing and Reciprocal Credits between the Bank of Mexico and the member banks of the clearinghouse; the documents must be expressed in colones and require the prior approval of the Central Bank. There are no transactions with Mexico in Costa Rican notes and coins. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. There is no system of import licensing and all payments may be made freely. Some imports, however, are made on a barter basis; these require a barter license (licencia de trueque) issued by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. Exchange at the official rate is granted for the c.i.f. value of ( 1) specified essential commodities from any source, (2) all imports from Central American countries and from Panama that are covered by the provisions of regional integration agreements, and (3) goods imported prior to January 2, 1967. To be eligible for official exchange, imports of the specified essential com- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution modities must be registered with the Central Bank within two months of arrival at a national port. Their registration serves as an application for official exchange. The Central Bank grants per- mission to purchase exchange cover in order of registration. All other goods may be freely imported, provided that they are paid for through the free market. Official exchange is not granted for commodities on the list of essential imports that are also produced in acceptable quality either in Costa Rica or Central America, pro- vided that these commodities are available in satisfactory volume and at adequate prices; prior authorization by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce is required to purchase official exchange for the importation of any goods on the list that are also produced in Costa Rica. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely through the free market. Exchange at the official rate is only granted for freight and insurance on imports effected at the official rate; for dividends, interest, and amortization on registered foreign capital; servicing of debts contracted before Jan- uary 2, 1967; indispensable payments of the Central Government; normal expenses in foreign currency on export transactions settled through the official market; student remittances; royalties; and insurance and reinsurance premiums, pro- vided that a commitment is given that any receipts from indemnities will be sold in the official market. The allocation for interest and dividends is 10 per cent of the registered capital. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. The Central Bank supervises exports to assure a sup- ply of exchange to the official exchange market. Export licenses from the Central Bank are neces- sary for the physical exportation of merchandise, and the license is granted if the exporter agrees to surrender the exchange proceeds at the official rate; the Bank may require the exporter to pro- vide a guarantee in this respect. In addition to the export license issued by the Central Bank, other export licenses are required as follows: (1) strategic materials, such as armaments, muni- tions, scrap iron, and scraps of nonferrous base metals, require export licenses from the Ministry COSTA RICA of Industry and Commerce; (2) sugar requires an export license from the Ministry of Industry and Commerce in order that shipments under the sugar quotas may be controlled; (3) lumber and root of ipecacuanha require export licenses from the Institute for Lands and Colonization; (4) beans, rice, potatoes, onions, cotton, meat, and purebred and other cattle require export licenses from the National Council of Production; (5) airplanes require export licenses from the Civil Aviation Board; (6) Indian art objects made of gold, stone, or clay require export licenses from the National Museum; (7) tobacco requires an export license from the Tobacco Defense Board; (8) certain livestock and animals and plants of forest origin require a permit from the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock; and (9) coffee requires a sales contract approved by the Coffee Office, in order to control exports under the coffee quotas, and when there is a lien on the coffee in favor of a bank, that bank's approval is required before the Central Bank grants an export license. The exchange proceeds of all exports must be surrendered within 60 days of exportation or, if the goods were sold on credit, upon expiry of the term of the credit. Foreign-owned banana companies that have contracts with the Govern- ment must surrender their net export proceeds calculated by deducting from their gross export proceeds ( 1) profits obtained during the year from their transactions in Costa Rica; (2) a sum equivalent to the depreciation on their invest- ments in Costa Rica that is acceptable to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service; (3) the export tax on bananas payable in foreign currency; and (4) the cost of imports made during the year that were necessary for their normal business in Costa Rica. There are export taxes on bananas, sugar, and coffee. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered at the official rate within 60 days of accrual, with the exception of the following, which may be retained or sold in the free market: diplomatic and similar salaries and expenses; tourist expenditures; family remittances and other personal remittances; settlements on insurance claims, provided that the premium was financed in the free market; and commissions received by agents of foreign firms. 117 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA Capital Inward and outward transfers of capital through the free market may be made freely by residents and nonresidents. The Organic Law of the Cen- tral Bank provides that foreign capital entering through the official market may be registered with the Central Bank in order to be ensured access to that market for the transfer of interest, profits, and amortization. Incoming capital must be registered to become entitled to servicing at the official rate. Incoming capital may be sold freely in the free market if it is foreign capital that did not elect registration and surrender at the official rate or if it is national capital return- ing from abroad. The only outward transfers of capital permitted to be made at the official rate are repayments on certain private and public debts and amortization on registered foreign capital; for the latter, the amounts are determined indi- vidually by the Central Bank. Gold Only the Central Bank is permitted to deal in gold coins and gold bars in Costa Rica with persons or organizations that are not banks; any such transactions must be made direct with the buyer or seller, without the intermediary of com- mercial banks. Any physical or juridical person who has or acquires gold coins or gold bars must sell these to the Central Bank within 60 days from the date on which they became his property; exempt are small amounts in coin collections, jewelry, or family keepsakes. Imports and exports of gold are made only by the Central Bank. Changes during 1968 On many occasions during the year, commod- ities were added to or deleted from the list of essential imports entitled to exchange at the official rate. 118 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Cyprus Pound or £C 1 = US$2.40. Exchange rates are based on the fixed rate for sterling, with which the Cyprus pound is at par, and London market rates for sterling against other currencies. The rate for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1968 was US$2.38%6 buying, US$2.387/16 selling, per £C 1. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Cen- tral Bank of Cyprus; trade controls, by the Minis- try of Commerce and Industry. Certain authority to approve applications for the allocation of for- eign exchange within the scope of instructions issued by the Central Bank of Cyprus has been delegated to the authorized banks. Authority to introduce, adapt, and supervise controls on exports of potatoes has been delegated to the Cyprus Potato Marketing Board, while exports of cereals are licensed by the Cyprus Grain Commission. Prescription of Currency Cyprus is a member of the Sterling Area, and settlements between residents of Cyprus and resi- dents of other Sterling Area countries may be made freely in sterling or another Sterling Area currency. Settlements with countries covered by bilateral payments arrangements must be made through the appropriate clearing account denomi- nated in pounds sterling.1 Payments to other coun- tries except Rhodesia may be made by crediting sterling or Cyprus pounds to an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds; the proceeds of exports to such countries may be received in sterling or Cyprus pounds from an External Account or in any non-Sterling Area currency except Rhodesian pounds. Settlements with Rhodesia are subject to special regulations; payments for exports to Rho- desia must be received in a non-Sterling Area cur- rency other than Rhodesian pounds. 1 Cyprus has bilateral payments arrangements involving settlements through clearing accounts with Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and U.S.S.R. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between the accounts of residents of Cyprus and those of residents of other parts of the Sterling Area, and the funds on all such accounts are freely transferable within the Sterling Area. Residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may maintain with authorized banks nonresident accounts, des- ignated External Accounts. These may be credited with authorized payments from the Sterling Area, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales by nonresidents of non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds. External Accounts may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for pur- chases of non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Rhodesian Accounts are held by residents of Rhodesia. They may be credited with (1) pay- ments from External Accounts, (2) payments by residents of the Sterling Area that are made by check, bill, or draft drawn on or before Novem- ber 11, 1965 or under irrevocable credits opened on or before that date, (3) the proceeds of sales by, or on behalf of, the account holder to an authorized dealer of non-Sterling Area currencies other than Rhodesian pounds, and (4) transfers from other Rhodesian Accounts. Rhodesian Accounts may be debited for (1) payments to residents of any country made by check, bill, or draft drawn on or before November 11, 1965 or made under an irrevocable credit opened on or before that date by a bank in Cyprus or Rhodesia, (2) payments to residents of the Sterling Area for goods that had been delivered or shipped to Rho- desia on or before November 11, 1965, (3) living expenses in Cyprus of the account holder or his family, (4) insurance premiums payable to com- panies in the Sterling Area on personal policies taken out prior to November 11, 1965 by the account holder or his family, (5) bank charges due to authorized dealers in Cyprus, (6) sterling travelers checks and personal letters of credit issued by banks in Rhodesia and encashed in Cyprus, and (7) transfers to other Rhodesian Accounts. 119 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS Blocked Accounts are maintained in the name of a nonresident for certain payments of a capital nature which, under the existing exchange control regulations, may not be transferred outside Cyprus. These accounts may be in the form of deposits with local banks earning interest which may be freely transferred abroad. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of virtually all commod- ities may be made freely from any other coun- try except Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Rumania, Tibet, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. Certain goods may not be imported freely (some agricultural and textile products, footwear, metal manufac- tures, and industrial mach inery); for a few of these items, no licenses are granted, while for most of them licenses are granted liberally. Imports from Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and the U.S.S.R. are permitted in accordance with the terms of bilateral trade and payments agreements. With respect to Albania, mainland China, North Korea, Tibet, and North Viet-Nam, no trading arrangements exist. Individual import licenses are not required for bona fide unsolicited gifts up to <£C 10 in value (not to be sold), for returned goods, or for cer- tain special import transactions. Payments for all authorized imports may be made freely, but advance payments in respect of imports from countries outside the Sterling Area are not normally permitted. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made freely. All remittances to countries outside the Sterling Area require the approval of the exchange control authorities. Profits, dividends, and interest from approved foreign investments may be transferred abroad, after payment of any charges and taxes due. Insurance premiums due to foreign insurance companies are remittable after deduction of all expenses and contingencies in respect of any claims. Maintenance remittances are allowed on 120 application accompanied by documentary evi- dence of hardship. For certain categories of pay- ments, limits are imposed mainly for the purpose of preventing illicit capital outflow. For study abroad, the lower limit is <£C 500 a year, and the upper limit is <£C 1,700 a year; the amount allowed depends on the cost of living in the coun- try concerned—e.g., for study in countries in the Middle East, £C 550; in the United States and Canada, <£C 1,700; mo th er countries, <£C 1,050. Higher amounts for student allowances may be granted on production of sufficient documentary evidence. For tourist travel, the limit is <£C 250 a person annually; for business travel <£C 5 to <£C 25 a day is granted in addition to the tourist allowance. The basic tourist allowance is not available for travel to Rhodesia. Resident travel- ers may take out Cyprus notes up to <£C 10 and foreign currency notes up to the equivalent of <£ stg. 50. Nonresident travelers may take out <£C 10 in Cyprus notes and any amount of foreign currency notes that they brought into Cyprus. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of potatoes are subject to control by the Cyprus Potato Marketing Board, and those of wheat and barley to control by the Cyprus Grain Commission. Exports to Sterling Area countries, with minor exceptions, are free from licensing, irrespective of their amount; exports to other coun- tries are free from licensing when the f.o.b. value does not exceed <£C 75. Goods destined for coun- tries outside the Sterling Area are subject to a fur ther control to ensure repatriation of the sales proceeds in an appropriate manner (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Export pro- ceeds in non-Sterling Area currencies must be surrendered within one month of receipt. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in non-Sterling Area currencies must be sold to an authorized bank within one month of receipt. Persons entering Cyprus may bring in any amount in foreign cur- rency notes and Cyprus currency notes. Capital No control is exercised over capital receipts or payments in Sterling Area currencies. Receipts in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution other currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized bank; payments of a capital nature in those currencies require prior approval. Foreign investments in Cyprus by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. In considering applications, due regard is given to the purpose of the investment, the extent of pos- sible foreign exchange savings, the number of per- sons to be employed, the extent of the foreign exchange liability which might arise from the investment, and possible competition with exist- ing industries. Foreign investment involving par- ticipation in domestic industries not exceeding 49 per cent of the share capital is normally approved; participation above this limit may be permitted in exceptional circumstances. Proceeds from the liquidation of approved foreign invest- ments may be repatriated in fu ll at any time, after payment of any charges and taxes due. Foreign nationals who repatriate or take up residence outside the Sterling Area, and Cypriots who emigrate to countries outside the Sterling Area, may transfer abroad up to <£C 5,000. Any excess amount is deposited in a Blocked Account. Transactions in foreign securities owned by resi- dents require prior permission from the author- ities. CYPRUS Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Cyprus for numismatic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary author- ities, authorized dealers in gold, and industrial fusers are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Authorized dealers in gold are only permitted to import gold for the purpose of disposing of it to industrial users. The export of gold requires the permission of the exchange control authorities. Changes during 1968 February 2. The commercial banks were informed that they were required to transfer their foreign assets to the Central Bank gradually; they could, however, hold working balances abroad in sterling and in non-Sterling Area currencies. May 24. The Imports (Regulation) (Control and Regulation of Goods) Order, 1968 came into effect. It permitted unrestricted importation of all commodities (other than a few listed items) from the countries to which the open general license for imports had previously applied. June 1. The basic exchange allowances for education in countries outside the Sterling Area were raised; their range was increased from <£C 400-1,400 a year to <£C 500-1,700 a year. 121 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DAHOMEY1 Exchange System No par value for the currency of Dahomey has been established with the Fund. The unit of cur- rency is the CFA Franc, which is officially main- tained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.2 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and in- clude a commission. The domestic negotiation of the currencies of Guinea, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa is prohibited. Dahomey's exchange control measures do not apply to relations with (1) France and its Over- seas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; (2) the other member countries of the West African Monetary Union (Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta); and (3) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo (Brazzaville), Gabon, the Malagasy Republic, and Ma l i ). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Dahomey itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Direc- torate-General of Economic Affairs in the Min- istry of Economy and Finance, which also super- vises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or sale of foreign securities in Dahomey, inward and outward direct investment, and the solicita- 1 In view of changes that took place early in 1969 (see note at the end of this su rvey ), this survey presents the position on February 21, 1969. 2 The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de I'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 122 tion of funds in Dahomey for placement in foreign countries. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either direct or through the intermediary of the banks and the Postal Administration, any infor- mation necessary to compile the balance of pay- ments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries. Import licenses are is- sued by the Directorate-General of Economic Affa irs in the Ministry of Economy and Finance, except those for gold, which are granted by the Minister of Economy and Finance personally. Exports of diamonds require the prior appro- val of the Directorate of Mines. There are three special offices for the import and export of pre- cious metals and precious mineral materials. Import certificates for liberalized commodities from non-EEC countries are made out by the importer himself and approved by the Directorate- General of Economic Affairs. Prescription of Currency Dahomey is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO main- tains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France (including its Overseas Departments and Territories, except that of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Opera- tions Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs.3 All settlements with Portugal. Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA 3 There are inoperative payments agreements with East- ern Germany, Hungary, and the Un i ted Arab Republic. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in or shipped from Portugal, Rhodesia, or South Africa are pro- hibited. Certain imports, such as narcotics, are prohibited from all sources. Imports of all other goods from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely without an import license. Imports of all other goods from EEC countries other than France may also be made freely; these goods require a license, which is issued automat- ically. Certain imports are liberalized when orig- inating in OECD countries other than Japan and only require an import certificate made out by the importer himself. Imports of nonliberalized commodities from OECD countries, all imports from Japan, and all imports from non-OECD countries are subject to licensing; they are admitted in accordance with an annual import program, which is determined each year in a joint French-Dahomean Committee, as provided for by the Economic Cooperation Agreement with France. Under this program, global quotas are established for imports from all countries outside the French Franc Area except EEC countries. A few specified commodities4 are subject to indivi- dual ceilings within the global quotas when orig- inating in now-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area. Certain French textiles processed elsewhere are licensed freely outside the import program. Virtually all imports from foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import licenses or import certificates entitle im- porters to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the commodities have already been imported. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to 4 These commodities are piece goods impr in ted). (printed and DAHOMEY France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are sub- ject to the approval of the Directorate-General of Economic Affairs. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Opera- tions Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 50,000 a year for each person (CFAF 25,000 for children under t e n ); any foreign exchange remaining af ter return to Dahomey must be surrendered. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equiv- alent of CFAF 10,000 a day, subject to a maxi- mum of CFAF 100,000 a trip, for travel to specified countries5 or CFAF 15,000 a day, sub- ject to a maximum of CFAF 150,000, for travel to any other foreign country. The transfer of the entire salary of a foreigner working in Dahomey is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 10,000 in BCEAO bank- notes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries. Travel- ers to other countries may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes. Resident travelers must have their purchases and sales of foreign cur- rency marked in a personal foreign exchange booklet (carnet de change). Nonresident travelers may take out any unutil- ized foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry; they may reconvert CFA banknotes up to CFAF 25,000 into foreign means of payment. 5 These are Algeria, Austria, Belgium, Democratic Republic of Congo, Cyprus, Denmark, Finland, Federal Republic of Germany, Ghana, Greece, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jordan, Lebanon, Libya, Luxembourg, Malta, Morocco, Netherlands, Nigeria, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, Turkey, United A rab Republic, United Kingdom, and Yugoslavia. 123 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DAHOMEY Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. With minor exceptions, ex- ports to all foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exports to all countries are free of license, except those of gold and diamonds, but require an export application visaed by the Directorate-General of Economic Affa irs. Exports of gold require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance personally, and those of diamonds must be authorized by the Directorate of Mines. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Operations Account country must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered. Resident and non- resident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Trea- sury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries out- side the French Franc Area; resident travelers must surrender any foreign currency they bring in. The import of Guinean currency is prohibited. Capital Transfers of capital between Dahomey and Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are pro- hibited. Capital movements between Dahomey and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, over the issuing, 124 offering for sale, or introduction of foreign secu- rities in Dahomey, and over the solicitation of funds in Dahomey for placement in foreign coun- tries; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or introduc- tion of foreign securities in Dahomey, the control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, the other member countries of the West African Monetary Union, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Foreign direct investments in Dahomey6 and Dahomean direct investments abroad,7 must be declared to the Minister of Economy and Finance when they are being made, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from rein- vestment of undistributed profits. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration, during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. The fu ll or partial liquidation of either type of direct investment also requires declaration. Both the making and the liquidation of direct invest- ments, whether these are Dahomean investments abroad or foreign investments in Dahomey, must be reported to the Minister of Finance within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, offering for sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Dahomey requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Dahomean Gov- ernment, and (2) shares similar to securities 6 Inc lud ing those made by companies in Dahomey that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Dahomey of foreign companies. 7 Inc lud ing those made through the in termed iary of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly con- trolled by persons in Dahomey and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Dahomey. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution whose issuing, sale, or offering for sale in Daho- mey has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in Daho- mey, or by branches or subsidiaries in Dahomey of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Min- ister of Economy and Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms men- tioned above, or with the financing of commer- cial transactions either between Dahomey and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repay- ment thereon, must be notified to the Minister of Economy and Finance within 20 days, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans con- tracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 500,000 or less. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization, and is restricted. The Investment Code of December 31, 1961 provides for preferential status that may be granted to foreign and domestic investments in industry, agriculture, and, in some cases, commerce, when such investments are deemed to be of value to national development. Three preferential regimes are established. Plan A is intended for small and medium-sized investments and provides for exemption, during a period of up to 5 years, from import duties and taxes on materials nec- essary for the production of the proposed product. Plan B, for larger projects, is granted for a maxi- mum period of 8 years and provides, in addition to the benefits of Plan A, exemption during the first 5 years of operation from the tax on indus- trial and commercial profits as well as certain other taxes. Plan C is intended for very large enterprises and is granted for a period of up to 25 years. In addition to the benefits of Plans DAHOMEY A and B, Plan C guarantees marketing stabiliza- tion for products, free choice of suppliers, and certain other advantages. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dis- pose of gold in any form in Dahomey. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO and (2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declara- tion. Changes during 1968 January 1. The export tax on diamonds was increased. January 3. The bilateral payments agreement with Ghana was terminated. A new trade agree- ment went into effect which provided for settle- ments in convertible currencies. May 21. Order No. 400 prohibited imports of bicycles and motorcycles and certain parts there- for. Special import licenses, however, could be granted depending on domestic market conditions. A similar measure with respect to frames and chassis for mopeds was taken on November 18 by Ordinance No. 57. June L Decree No. 151/PR/MFAEP, by sus- pending any contrary provisions of Decree No. 219/PR/MFAEP of June 29, 1967, re-estab- lished temporary exchange controls in relations with foreign countries. These were defined as all countries other than Dahomey, France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries. Non- resident accounts in Dahomey could not be credited with BCEAO banknotes, French bank- notes, or notes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. All payments between Dahomey and foreign countries had to be made through the BCEAO, the Postal Administration, or authorized banks. June 4. Order No. 433 (as amended by Order No. 452 of June 7) introduced an exchange allo- 125 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DAHOMEY cation of the equivalent of up to CFAF 100,000 a person a trip for travel to foreign countries; how- ever, no more than CFAF 100,000 in foreign cur- rency and CFA francs together could be taken out. The export by travelers to foreign countries of BCEAO banknotes was limited to CFAF 100,000 a person a trip. The order also listed the types of payments to foreign countries that could be made freely through an authorized bank. Further- more, payments up to CFAF 15,000 could be made freely for any purpose. Repatriation and sur- render requirements were introduced for proceeds from exports to foreign countries and proceeds from invisibles. June 19. The BCEAO issued four Instructions to Banks relating to exchange control. July 13. By virtue of Decree No. 193/PR/ MFAEP, amending Decree No. 219/PR/MFAEP of June 29, 1967, the importation and domestic negotiation of Mali francs ceased to be prohibited, and soliciting of funds in Dahomey for placing abroad required approval. August 23. Order No. 681/MEF/CAB was issued concerning the sale of foreign currency proceeds from exports to foreign countries. August 29. The BCEAO issued Instruction to Banks No. 5, concerning the purchase of foreign exchange for import payments. August 29. Notice to Importers No. 1110 announced formally the liberalization of imports of commodities originating in EEC countries other than France. Licenses remained necessary for such imports but continued to be issued automatically. September 17. Decree No. 292/PR/MEF revoked Decree No. 151/PR/MFAEP and the regulations issued for its implementation. This action abolished the temporary exchange con- trols. November 18. Ordinance No. 57/PR/MEF/ DGAE prohibited the importation from any source of bicycle and motorcycle frames. November 25. Decree No. 365/PR/MEF revoked Decree No. 292/PR/MEF and put into force again the provisions of Decree No. 15I/PR/ MFAEP and all regulations issued for its imple- mentation. This action re-established exchange control in relations with foreign countries. 126 December 20. Decree No. 381/PR/MEF pro- hibited, except with the prior approval of the Minister of Economy and Finance, all payments and transfers by residents to foreign countries, or, within Dahomey, in favor of a nonresident; all imports and exports of gold, means of payment, and securities; and all transactions and transfers leading to the constitution of assets abroad by a resident, or to the holding of foreign means of payment in Dahomey by a resident. All claims on foreign countries or nonresidents resulting from exports, earnings, or income had to be collected and, where appropriate, surrendered. All settle- ments with foreign countries or nonresidents had to take place through authorized banks; all im- ports from and exports to foreign countries had to be domiciled with authorized banks. All foreign securities, foreign exchange, and titles embodying claims on nonresidents had to be deposited with an authorized intermediary, whether they belonged to a resident or nonresident. Decree No. 365 was revoked and Decree No. 151 was suspended inso- far as its provisions were contrary to the new decree. December 20. Decree No. 382/PR/MEF sub- mitted to control by the Minister of Economy and Finance all claims and liabilities in CFA francs and in any foreign currency that banks in Dahomey had vis-a-vis foreign countries. This con- trol could be delegated to the BCEAO (see also January 23, 1969, below). December 24. Order No. 1035/MEF/AE/DG listed the types of payments that could be made freely, subject to the submission of documentary evidence and through an authorized bank, to for- eign countries. Nonresident accounts in Dahomey could no longer be credited with BCEAO bank- notes, French banknotes, or notes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. All amounts subject to surrender had to be collected and, where appropriate, sold on the exchange market, within two months of the due date. Such pay- ments could not be collected in banknotes or to the debit of a postal checking account in Daho- mey. The due date for export receipts had in principle to be within 180 days after arrival of the commodities at their destination. The order also contained definitions of "foreign countries," "residents," and "nonresidents." ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution December 24. Order No. 1036/MEF/AE/DG provided that resident and nonresident travelers could not take out more than CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, or the equivalent in French banknotes or in notes of an institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Imports by resident or non- resident travelers of BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes of other Operations Account countries would be free, as would be imports of any means of payment denominated in a foreign currency; any foreign currency brought in by a resident had to be sold to an authorized bank within eight days. Nonresident travelers could take out any foreign currency declared upon entry. An exchange allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 for the period until the end of 1968 was established for resident travelers. December 24. Order No. 1034/MEF/AE/DG appointed three commercial banks and the Postal Administration as authorized intermediaries, the latter only for payments that had received the prior approval of the Directorate-General of Eco- nomic Affairs. December 24. Order No. 1037/MEF/AE/DG required prior approval to send means of pay- ment, titles to claims or property, and domestic or foreign securities to a foreign country through the mail or by parcel post. The BCEAO and the authorized banks were exempt from this prior approval. December 27. Circular No. 203/MEF/AE/DG established approval procedures for payments to foreign countries. NOTE. —The following changes took place early in 1969: January 14. Circular No. 05/MEF/CAB estab- lished procedures for the domiciliation of imports and for payments for imports. January 14. Circular No. 06/MEF/DGAE established procedures for the domiciliation of exports and for controls over the repatriation of export proceeds. DAHOMEY January 20. The Ministry of Economy and Finance issued Circular No. 015/MEF/CAB to the authorized banks, concerning Foreign Accounts in Francs and foreign dossiers for secu- rities. The former were defined as comprising accounts in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. With minor exceptions, all overdrafts on such accounts and all advances to nonresidents required the approval of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. January 23. The control over the banks' posi- tion vis-a-vis foreign countries in CFA francs and foreign currencies was delegated to the BCEAO by Order No. 100/MEF/CAB. January 28. The BCEAO, by Instruction No. 1 to Banks, requested the banks to provide monthly data on their foreign position. For this purpose, all countries other than Dahomey were to be considered foreign countries. February 21. Order No. 173/MEF/AE/DG introduced an exchange allocation of the equiv- alent of CFAF 50,000 a person a year for tourist travel by residents to foreign countries (CFAF 25,000 for children under ten). For busi- ness travel, a special allocation was fixed of the equivalent of CFAF 10,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 100,000 a trip, for travel to specified countries, and the equivalent of CFAF 15,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 150,000 a trip, for travel to other foreign countries. Resident and nonresident travelers could take out up to CFAF 10,000 in banknotes issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, and the institutes of issue of other Operations Account countries. Resident travelers were required to obtain a personal foreign exchange booklet (car- net de change) in which all purchases and sales of foreign exchange must be marked. Residents had to surrender any foreign currency brought in; nonresident travelers could take out any foreign currency declared upon entry. February 21. Circular No. 33/MEF/DGAE established procedures for the issuance and use of foreign exchange booklets. 127 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.118489 gram of fine gold per Danish Krone or DKr 7.50000 = US$1. The offi- cial limits for the U.S. dollar are DKr 7.44375 buying, and DKr 7.55625 selling, per US$1, at which rates the exchange authorities stand ready to intervene; the rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Market rates are quoted daily for the 16 cur- rencies that are used most often.1 Authorized exchange dealers may engage in arbitrage both spot and forward for up to 12 months with one another and with their foreign correspondents in all currencies, including Danish kroner (other than Danish kroner on East German accounts). Forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Forward transactions with residents must cover contractual payments for goods and services or payments on authorized loans and credits, the payments covered being due not more than two years from the date of the for- ward contract. Pursuant to UN Security Council Resolution No. 253 (1968), restrictions for security reasons are applied to virtually all payments and transfers to, or for the benefit of, Rhodesia, and to certain receipts from Rhodesia. Denmark accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 1, 1967. Exchange Control Territory The Danish Monetary Area comprises Den- mark, Greenland, and the Faroe Islands. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the National Bank of Denmark, which is the central exchange control authority. However, administra- tive powers for most payments and transfers are delegated to the authorized exchange dealers, i.e., 1 These are Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian (Luxembou rg) francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche ma rk, Finnish m a r k k a a, French francs, Icelandic k ronu r, Italian lire, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 128 banks and the stock exchange brokers who are members of the Copenhagen Stock Exchange. Per- mission, when required, for foreign direct invest- ments in Denmark has to be obtained from the Ministry of Commerce. Licenses for imports and exports, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Agriculture, or the Ministry of Fisheries. Prescription of Currency Payments to or from foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Danish kroner. The only exceptions to this rule are that payments to Eastern Germany must be settled through inconvertible krone accounts and that virtually all payments in favor of residents of Rhodesia must be credited to a Capital Account. Payments from Eastern Germany are normally settled through inconvertible krone accounts, but may also be settled otherwise. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident krone accounts are convertible. The only exceptions are Capital Accounts and Foreign Accounts, which play only an insignificant part in settlements with foreign countries, and East German accounts. Krone Accounts may be opened by authorized banks for foreign banks, insurance companies, and shipping lines. They may also be opened for other nonresidents, if it is agreed with the account holder that amounts in excess of DKr 75,000 are to be transferred abroad automatically at the end of each quarter; this limitation is not applicable to persons who are or have been of Danish nationality. Capital Accounts are kept for nonresidents by authorized exchange dealers for holding capital, income from capital, pensions, and other funds owned by or accruing to Danish emigrants, to the extent that the amounts exceed the exchange allowance of DKr 40,000 available to each person during the first year af ter emigration. Certain pay- ments to residents may be made freely from these accounts and one year after emigration the bal- ances are made convertible. Capital Accounts are also kept for residents of Rhodesia; balances in these accounts are inconvertible. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign Accounts are nonresident accounts with savings banks, small cooperative banks, and the Public Trustee's Office. These accounts are kept mainly by private persons and for private purposes. The rules governing such accounts fol- low broadly the same principles as those estab- lished for convertible Krone Accounts, except that transfers abroad may be made only through an authorized exchange dealer. Imports and Import Payments The import of all commodities of Rhodesian origin is prohibited. All goods not on a restricted list containing mainly nonindustrial goods may be imported without license from the "Free List Area ."2 For imports from the "Free List Area" of commodities on the restricted list, licenses are issued on the basis of global (regional) quotas and may be used for any country in the "Free List Area."3 Imports from countries outside the "Free List Area" require licenses; these are partly granted in accordance with bilateral trade agreements or traditional trade relations with the specific country concerned and partly issued freely for a large number of commodities when these are imported from, and originate in, the country con- cerned. Imports of bread grain, feedgrain, and grain products are subject to equalization charges representing the difference between specified mini- mum import prices and the lowest prices payable for grain c.i.f. Danish ports. The transfer of funds to, or for the benefit of, Rhodesia is prohibited. With this exception, pay- ments for imports and the related shipping expenses may be made freely within two years from the end of the month in which the goods were cleared through customs, or within five years for imports of ships, aircraft, large machines, and major plants. The authorized exchange dealer may make payment before clearance of the goods, provided that the probable date of clearance lies within a year from the date of payment. 2 On December 31, 1968, the following countries were not included in the "Free List Area": Albania, Brazil, Bul- garia, mainland China, Republic of China, Colombia, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Japan, North Korea, Republic of Korea, Mongolian People's Republic, Poland, Rhodesia, Rumania, Syrian Arab Republic, U.S.S.R., United Arab Republic, and North Viet-Nam. However, Brazil and Colombia were included in the "Free List Area" with effect from January 1, 1969. 3 Only wine, oysters, and cut flowers are imported under licenses which apply to a specific country. DENMARK Payments for Invisibles The National Bank has delegated to authorized exchange dealers the authority to permit payments for most invisibles to be made freely; only in a few cases is approval from the Bank required. Transfers of up to DKr 2,000 for any permitted purpose may be made without delivery of forms. Foreign exchange for travel is allocated liberally and may be obtained for travel to any country. Foreign exchange in banknotes and coins may be purchased from agencies or individuals other than the authorized exchange dealers, provided that the amount does not exceed DKr 2,000 for each transaction. Payments of any kind to Rhodesia, except pay- ments for pensions, for strictly humanitarian, medical, or educational purposes, or for the pur- chase of news material, are prohibited. Travelers may take out freely DKr 2,000 in Danish banknotes and coins, and any amount in foreign banknotes or other means of payment. The DKr 2,000 limit may be exceeded by non- residents, who may export any amount of Danish banknotes and coins derived from sales of foreign currency in Denmark or brought in by them when they entered Denmark. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited, with the exception of products intended for strictly med- ical purposes, educational material or other equip- ment for schools and the like, publications, and news material. Exports to any country of major agricultural and fishery products require export licenses issued by the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Fisheries. Exports of a few industrial products to the "Free List Area" and of all products to other countries require licenses issued by the Ministry of Commerce, the primary purposes of the regu- lations being to safeguard the fulfillment of bilat- eral obligations, to avoid excessive credits to importing countries, and to serve strategic pur- poses. Export proceeds must be transferred to Den- mark without undue delay unless the National Bank permits otherwise. However, this obligation does not apply to amounts which are to be used within three months to settle or to offset the cost 129 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK of certain commercial expenses. Foreign exchange receipts must be offered for sale to the National Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer without undue delay, except that an individual resident may hold foreign banknotes and coins not exceed- ing DKr 2,000 in value. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange derived from invisibles must be transferred to Denmark, unless the National Bank permits otherwise, and offered for sale to the Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer without undue delay, with exceptions similar to those that apply to export proceeds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Travelers may bring in any amount in Danish banknotes and coins, foreign banknotes, and other Danish or foreign means of payment. Capital Residents have an obligation to repatriate pro- ceeds realized from the sale or liquidation of assets abroad. Transfers abroad may be made by residents to pay interest on, to redeem, or to repurchase the transferor's own securities, to lend amounts not exceeding DKr 200,000 in a calendar year to subsidiary companies, branches, etc., or to a member of the resident's family, and to buy foreign securities that do not represent direct investments in foreign commercial or industrial enterprises, provided that the securities are acquired on the basis of a subscription right to shares or the like owned by the resident con- cerned or provided that the resident furnishes proof that he has repatriated a corresponding amount within the last 12 months from the sale of foreign securities to a nonresident. Permission from the National Bank is required for most other transfers abroad of a capital nature by residents.4 Direct investments abroad by residents are nor- mally approved, but portfolio investment abroad is generally not allowed. Loans and credits involv- 4 On February 13, 1969 the Na t ional Bank granted a general permission to authorized exchange dealers to make t rans fe rs abroad, w i t h in certain l im i ts, for account of the ir resident customers in connection w i th direct invest- ments or w i th the private acquisition of real estate abroad. The au tho r i ty was limited to DKr 40,000 a year for each foreign enterprise for direct investments and to DKr 40,000 a person for the private acquisition of real estate. 130 ing nonresidents and made in connection with commercial transactions are normally permitted, subject to certain limitations. Danish emigrants are granted an exchange allowance of up to DKr 40,000 for each person during the first year after emigration. Funds exceeding this amount must be credited to a Cap- ital Account in the name of the owner and may be transferred abroad one year after emigration. Direct investment in Denmark by nonresidents may be made without any special license if the transaction concerns industry, commerce, handi- crafts, hotel business, or transportation, and if the investment does not increase total direct foreign investment in the enterprise concerned by more than DKr 40,000 in each calendar year. Other direct investment by nonresidents requires permis- sion from the Ministry of Commerce, which is granted liberally in accordance with Denmark's obligations as a member of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. The purchase by a nonresident of real property in Denmark usually requires a special license from the Ministry of Justice. A nonresident who is or has been a Danish national may freely purchase or subscribe to securities expressed solely in Danish kroner which do not represent direct investment. Other nonresidents may purchase or subscribe to bonds that are quoted daily and are expressed solely in Danish kroner, when the funds have been obtained from the liquidation of invest- ments in Denmark. They may purchase or sub- scribe to shares that are quoted daily, are expressed solely in Danish kroner, and do not represent direct investment, when the funds have been obtained from the liquidation of Danish shares, or when the acquisition is made on the basis of subscription rights to shares. Nonresidents may grant credits within certain limits to residents to finance purchases of commodities abroad and to finance the granting of credits for exports. They may, further, grant loans of DKr 100,000 to DKr 1 million per borrower in a calendar year to finance the borrower's own enterprise in the fields of agriculture, industry, trade, handicrafts, hotel business, or transportation, provided that the activity in question does not exclusively or essen- tially consist in financing, trading in real estate, or building and construction activities, and pro- vided that the maturity is at least five years. Finally, they may grant loans up to DKr 200,000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution per borrower in a calendar year to subsidiary companies, branches, etc., and to members of the nonresident's family. Municipalities and public utility companies may as a rule issue debenture loans abroad without special permission of the National Bank, but their foreign borrowing is subject to control by the com- petent executive department of the Government. Transfers of proceeds from the sale or liqui- dation of all types of investments and transfers of all other liquid funds in Denmark owned by nonresidents other than newly emigrated Danish nationals are permitted freely, irrespective of when and how the original investment was acquired. Interest and repayment of principal on authorized loans, credits, and deposits received from persons and firms who are nonresidents at the time of receipt may be paid freely. Inheritances and gifts to relatives may normally be transferred to any country without limitation. Individual payments above DKr 2,000 as gifts to persons other than relatives require approval from the National Bank. Such approval is normally given for bona fide gifts. Imports and exports of securities are subject to regulations, the details of which are established by the National Bank, or, when exports of speci- fied multiple currency Danish bonds are con- cerned, by the Ministry of the Interior. Bona fide imports of Danish securities payable only in Danish kroner are permitted. Exports of Danish and foreign securities owned by nonresidents are normally permitted also. Danish securities held in Denmark and belonging to nonresidents may be sold freely to residents. Foreign securities held in Denmark and belonging to nonresidents may, with certain exceptions, be sold to residents only with the permission of the National Bank. Foreign securities held in Denmark may be negotiated freely between residents, provided that the exchange control regulations concerning emigrants are not circumvented. Gold Residents may freely buy, hold, and sell gold coins in Denmark. Residents other than the mone- tary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to acquire gold abroad. Imports and exports of gold normally require licenses issued DENMARK by the Ministry of Commerce; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary author- ities and industrial users. Imports of gold in bar or coins, unless made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, are subject to turnover tax at a rate of 12.5 per cent but not to customs du ty. Changes during 1968 January 1. The global import quotas for the first half of 1968 went into effect. January 1. Imports of additional agricultural commodities were liberalized, provided that they originated in the "Free List Area." January 1. Denmark's membership in EFTA was extended to include the Faroe Islands. March 27. The bilateral payments agreements with Brazil and Colombia were terminated with effect from April 1, 1968. March 27. Bilateral Krone Accounts were abol- ished. These were nonresident accounts maintained by residents of countries with which bilateral pay- ments agreements were in force. April. The issuance of import licenses for com- modities originating in Eastern Europe was made more liberal. July 1. The global import quotas for the sec- ond half of 1968 went into effect. July 1. Imports of additional agricultural com- modities were liberalized, provided that they orig- inated in the "Free List Area." July 1. Resident businesses no longer required the approval of the National Bank to borrow abroad amounts from DKr 0.1 million to DKr 1 million a year for financing the borrower's own enterprise in the fields of agriculture, industry, trade, handicrafts, hotel business, or transporta- tion, provided that the activity in question did not exclusively or essentially consist in financing, in trade in real estate, or in building and construc- tion activities, and provided that the loan's matur- ity was at least five years. Previously, only credits for the financing of international trade could be taken up abroad. July 1. Exchange dealers were required, when entering into forward exchange transactions with their customers, to provide the National Bank 131 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK with a written statement indicating all relevant details. From that date, such transactions must cover contractual payments for goods and services or payments on authorized loans and credits, the payments covered being due not more than two years from the date of the forward contract. October 1. Additional sanction measures against Rhodesia went into effect. The combined effect of these and the previous sanctions was that the following were prohibited: (1) Imports into Denmark as well as storage in free ports, in bonded storage, in customs warehouses or the like, of commodities originating in Rhodesia and exported from there after May 29, 1968. (2) Exports from Rhodesia of commodities as men- tioned under (1 ), entering into legal transactions regarding such commodities as well as transporta- tion thereof. ( 3) Selling or shipping, or otherwise supplying to Rhodesia, to persons or enterprises in Rhodesia, or to enterprises operated from Rho- desia, commodities of any origin other than prod- ucts intended for strictly medical purposes, educa- tional material or other equipment for schools and the like, publications, and news material. (4) Pay- ments of any kind for use by, or at the disposal of, the Rhodesian regime or any official or private agency, enterprise, or persons, except payments for pensions, for strictly humanitarian, medical, or educational purposes or for the purchase of news material. With minor exceptions, payments in favor of residents of Rhodesia could henceforth be made only to the credit of a Capital Account in the name of the payee. Payments from Rhodesia could continue to be accepted by residents, except for payments related to transit trade. All accounts maintained for residents of Rhodesia were redesig- nated as Capital Accounts; balances on such accounts could neither be converted into foreign currency nor transferred to other Krone Accounts, including Capital Accounts. December 31. It was announced that with effect from January 1, 1969, Brazil and Colombia would for import control purposes be included in the "Free List Area." 132 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.888671 gram of fine gold per Dominican Peso or RD$1.00 = US$1. Exchange transactions in U.S. dollars between the Central Bank of the Dominican Republic and other banks take place at the par value, plus a commission of %2 °f 1 Per cent. Exchange transactions by commercial banks with the public also take place at the par value, subject to bank- ing commissions of % of 1 per cent buying and y2 of 1 Per cent selling. With the exception of payments for imports made with the importer's own foreign exchange, all payments abroad must be made through banks, and all exchange received must be sold to banks. The commercial banks are required to transfer to the Central Bank all exchange purchased. On August 1, 1953, the Dominican Republic notified the Fund that it accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange and trade control policy is made by the Monetary Board. Foreign exchange control is administered by the Central Bank. The Mone- tary Board establishes import quotas, which are administered and controlled by the Foreign Exchange Department of the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Imports from the United States that are financed by the U.S. AID must be effected under special letters of credit. Otherwise no obligations are imposed on importers, exporters, or other residents in respect of the method to be followed or the currency to be used for payments to or from nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Imports of 79 categories of goods, including automobiles with an f.o.b. value in excess of RD$2,000, are prohibited. Imports of many other commodities are restricted by quotas. Specified commodities are exempt from quota and pro- hibition when they are financed with the import- er's own foreign exchange; such imports are also exempt from advance deposits and from prepay- ment of import taxes and surcharges. Licensing controls are maintained over a few other com- modities for reasons of health or security. All payments for imports require the approval of the Central Bank, except those made with the import- er's own exchange. Commodities subject to quantitative restric- tions can be imported and settled with official exchange only against a letter of credit. The same requirement applies to some other goods, includ- ing alcoholic beverages, certain construction materials, some perfumes and cosmetics, and some spices. All letters of credit, except those covering imports of industrial machinery and materials, medical products, and certain transpor- tation equipment, must be prepaid in full by the importer. The commercial banks transmit to the Central Bank each day a list of applications for all imports against letters of credit. After the Central Bank approves an application and the importer in accordance with Decree No. 239 pre- pays import duties and surcharges, the letter of credit may be opened. For prepaid letters of credit the Central Bank debits the account of the com- mercial bank for the peso equivalent at the time of opening the letter of credit. The peso equiva- lent of other letters of credit is forwarded to the Central Bank after they have been negotiated and exchange is requested by the commercial bank. Importers of most commodities subject to the pre- paid letter of credit obligation are also required to prepay 80 per cent of the estimated value of customs duties and surcharges on the goods prior to the opening of the letter of credit. In principle, exchange for import payments is made available w i th in not more than five working days from the receipt of the application, but since May 1966 there have been delays in the provision of exchange. Virtually all imports are subject to customs surcharges (impuestos internes) ranging from 10 per cent to 200 per cent of the f.o.b. value; for most imports, however, they are 56.6 per cent. Imports of automobiles are subject to a further surcharge of RD$700 per unit. Imports of agri- cu l tural and industrial machinery and equipment and spare parts are subject to a single import tax 133 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (including customs du t ies) of 5 per cent. Certain foodstuffs are exempt from import taxes and others are relieved under special arrangements in times of seasonal shortage. Advance import deposits of 10 per cent, 20 per cent, or 40 per cent of the f.o.b. value are required for many imports, unless the goods are paid for with the importer's own foreign exchange. The advance deposits are collected by the Customs Administration prior to the clearance of the goods, and are lodged in the Central Bank for a period of three months. A number of goods are exempt, including certain foodstuffs, medical supplies, industrial and agricultural machinery and spare parts, commercial vehicles, industrial raw materials and packing materials, and petro- leum products. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the prior approval of the Central Bank, which is only given after careful examination of the application and if the transaction is considered genuine and essen- tial. The allocation of foreign exchange for travel, family remittances by Dominican nationals, medi- cal expenses abroad, and insurance other than insurance on merchandise imports is suspended. Airline tickets are subject to a tax of 15 per cent when the price of the ticket is over RD$200 or from RD$5 to RD$25 when the price is RD$200 or less. Nonresidents working in the Dominican Republic may remit up to 60 per cent of their salaries abroad for any purpose. For students pursuing approved courses, exchange requests for monthly maintenance allowances are approved up to US$150 for studies in Latin America, Puerto Rico, and Spain, and up to US$200 for studies in the United States (except Puerto Rico), Canada, and other European countries. Exchange is also sold for remittances to authorized students to meet expenses for tuition, books, and other fees. Applications for exchange for contractual pay- ments, such as interest and amortization pay- ments on loans registered with the Central Bank, are approved in conformity with the terms of the contract. Transfers of profits and dividends on 134 foreign investments are approved on presentation of a balance sheet which has been agreed with the tax authorities, provided that taxes due on these earnings have been paid, including an 18 per cent tax on dividends remitted or credited to nonresidents. In some cases the transfer may have to be effected in monthly or quarterly installments. In principle, exchange for payments for invisi- bles is made available within five days from receipt of the application, but there have been delays. Travelers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount of any travel allocation they have obtained. Travelers are not permitted to take with them any domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for sugar, in con- nection with the operation of export quotas established under the International Sugar Agree- ment, and for coffee, cocoa, and tobacco. Within two working days of receiving payment, exporters of Dominican products must surrender through the commercial banks to the Central Bank foreign exchange equal to 100 per cent of the f.o.b. value of their exports. Exporters may not extend credit for more than 90 days from the date of embarka- tion without authorization by the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles The foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles are subject to surrender requirements and must be surrendered to the Central Bank through the commercial banks. The import of Dominican banknotes and coins is prohibited. Capital There are no restrictions on the inward move- ment of capital by either residents or nonresi- dents. Inward capital remittances must be registered with the Central Bank and must be converted into pesos at that Bank. Registration may cover the value of machinery and equipment, as well as intangible assets such as licenses and patents. Applications for approval of outward capital remittances must be submitted through the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution commercial banks to the Central Bank. With- drawals of capital by foreigners leaving the Dominican Republic are authorized in reasonable amounts, sometimes with provision for the trans- fer to be effected in annual installments. Applica- tions by residents to transfer capital abroad to make portfolio investments, purchase real estate, etc., are not normally approved. Cold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in the Dominican Republic for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, in the Dominican Republic or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities and industrial users. DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Changes during 1968 April 23. An Industrial Incentive Law went into force. Under this law, the Government and all public sector agencies (including the auton- omous enterprises) were prohibited from import- ing goods where a locally made product of comparable quality is available at a price not exceeding the price of the import, including all import taxes and surcharges applicable thereto. June 28. The import prohibition and import quota arrangements were extended to Decem- ber 31, 1968. Quotas for the second half of 1968 were set at an annual rate equivalent to 60 per cent of each importer's imports during the base period. Thirty-nine classes of goods were added to the list of prohibited imports and two to the list of goods subject to quotas. December 26. The Central Bank announced that the import prohibition and import quota arrangements were extended to June 30, 1969. Each importer's quota would be increased from 60 to 75 per cent of his imports during the base period. 135 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR essential goods, and List II, consisting of less essential and luxury goods. All goods not included in these two lists are prohibited, except books, newspapers, periodicals, and printed or recorded music, which may be imported freely w i thout a license. Prior import licenses are required for all permitted imports exceeding a value of US$100, with the exceptions specified below. A few goods may only be imported from LAFTA countries, and some only from Paraguay; with these exceptions, import licenses are issued freely irrespective of the origin of the goods, provided that the appropriate advance deposits, monetary stabilization surcharges, and additional import taxes have been paid and that the required pre- payments of import duties have been made. The licenses automatically entitle the holders to obtain exchange at the official rate to cover the c.i.f. value of the imports upon presentation of the shipping documents; advance payments for imports and payments under letters of credit are generally prohibited. Imports for which licenses are not required (goods valued at US$100 or less) are paid for with exchange purchased in the free market. For some goods, import licenses are issued which do not entitle the importer to for- eign exchange at the official rate ("no exchange licenses," licencias sin divisas, or permisos de importation no Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0493706 gram of fine gold per Ecuadoran Sucre or S/ 18.00 = US$1. The official rates are S/ 17.82 buying, and S/ 18.18 selling, per US$ 1. These rates apply to all exports except bananas, to payments for most imports and related invisibles, to official transactions, to other essential invisibles, to registered capital, and to all contractual operations with respect to registered private foreign debt entered into after July 14, 1961. Minimum surrender prices result in d i f fe rent effective rates for exports of bananas. For all transactions not made at the official rate there is a free market, in which the rates on December 31, 1968 were S/ 22.31 buying, and S/ 22.43 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control The Monetary Board classifies transactions according to the exchange market through which they must be settled. Most transactions pass through the official market, which is under the control and supervision of the Central Bank of Ecuador. The Central Bank also issues import and export licenses. Exports of coffee to "new markets," however, require in addition the prior authorization of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. Transactions that do not qua l i fy for the official market may enter the free market— conducted mainly by exchange houses and several commercial banks —where such transactions are free of supervision by the exchange control authorities. Prescription of Currency Most settlements with Bulgaria, Eastern Ger- many, Hungary, Poland, and Ruman ia must take place through bilateral accounts. Payments between Ecuador and Colombia and Peru may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Ecuador and the other central banks concerned, within the frame- work of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. Exchange proceeds from other countries must be received in convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments Permitted imports are divided into two cate- gories: List I, consisting of essential and semi- 136 Surplus Agreement with the United States, imports of certain goods to be used for the construction and equipment of hotels, all imports of List I commodities financed with foreign credit of more than a year, all imports from Paraguay, imports of capital goods financed by international organi- zations or by suppliers' credit for at least one year after arrival, imports of medical supplies and equipment made by official health or social service institutions, and imports of machinery, equipment, and materials needed for public works. The advance deposit must be made in sucres by the importer when applying for an import license; the importer must at the same time lodge with the Central Bank a prepayment of part of the import duty. The rates for the advance deposit required are currently 35 per cent of the c.i.f. value for imports in List 1 ( 15 per cent for the same goods if covered by foreign credit of 180 day s1 to one y e a r ), and 50 per cent, 70 per cent, 100 per cent, or 140 per cent for imports in List II.2 The 140 per cent requirement is reduced to 100 per cent for the same commodities when imported by public or semipublic agencies. The prescribed prepayment of import du ty is 10 per cent of the du ty on commodities in List I and 45 per cent of the duty on those in List II.3 Advance deposits are released pan passu with the mak ing of the import payments. Most imports are also subject to monetary stabilization surcharges and to additional import taxes. The surcharge is 10 per cent of the c.i.f. value for List I items and 20 per cent for List II items. Surcharges must normally be paid in sucres to the Central Bank when application is made for an import license. Surcharges on List I items financed with suppliers' credit of a year or more a f ter arrival of the goods may be paid when the final import payment is made. Exempt from sur- charges are diplomatic imports, imports financed by loans from foreign governments or interna- tional organizations, imports by certain religious orders, imports by the official banana shipping company (Plota Bananera Ecuatoriand), certain imports of the State Railways, all imports of the Ministry of National Defense, and all imports ECUADOR originating in Paraguay. Most goods on List II are subject to an additional import tax of 10 per cent or 15 per cent of the c.i.f. value, payable in sucres; the others are exempt. Exempt from this tax are diplomatic imports and imports financed by foreign governments or international organiza- tions. Payments for Invisibles Payments for transactions in invisibles that may be made through the official market require an exchange license from the Central Bank; the license is granted freely for all authorized trans- actions. These transactions include certain invisi- bles connected with trade (e.g., insurance4); necessary expenses (i.e., travel, tuition, and liv- ing expenses up to US$100 a mon th) of Ecua- doran students abroad who are registered with the Central Bank; most payments of the Govern- ment and of official entities; payment of interest on registered foreign loans up to 7.5 per cent annually; payments of profits and dividends on registered private foreign investments up to 12 per cent annually; and contractual private for- eign debt operations entered into and registered af ter July 14, 1961. Other payments for invisi- bles may be made freely through the free market. Residents traveling abroad must pay a tax of S/ 400 for each exit visa, starting from the sec- ond visa in their passports. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports except those of mining companies with government contracts require licenses to ensure, among other things, the full surrender of the exchange proceeds; licenses are issued freely. M in imum surrender prices (aforos) are established for exports of bananas (according to port of shipment, destination, and season); they d i f fer for bananas shipped on the stem and those shipped in boxes. Exchange corresponding to those prices must be surrendered at the official rate, while any excess receipts may be sold in the free market. Exports of bananas are subject to 1 Raised to 270 days on February 4, 1969. 2 Raised to 70, 100, 130, and 190 per cent, respectively, on February 4, 1969. 3 Raised to 15 and 70 per cent, respectively, on Feb- rua ry 6, 1969. 4 According to Decree No. 1320 of October 21, 1966, f re ight on imports and exports must be covered w i th insurance companies established in Ecuador. This pro- vision is not yet in force, pend ing the issuance by the Super in tendent of Banks of regulations for its implemen- ta t ion. 137 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR minimum export prices. Exports of coffee, cacao, bananas shipped on the stem, sugar, and gold and silver filigree work are subject to export taxes of 9.4 per cent (washed, or 9.6 per cent unwashed ), 10 per cent, 21.4 per cent, 3.4 per cent, and 10 per cent, respectively.5 Export taxes are also levied on certain livestock and on fresh or frozen fish and shellfish. Exports of bananas in boxes are subject to a specific export duty expressed in sucres per pound (differentiated according to des- tination and province of origin). All exports of bananas are subject to certain additional specific taxes. Exports of coffee to "new markets" are exempt from export tax and all other taxes levied on exports. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles related to trade and all receipts of the Government and of official enti- ties have to be sold at the official rate. Other receipts from invisibles (including those from tourism) need not be surrendered and may be sold in the free market. Capital Receipts of private foreign capital must be surrendered to the Central Bank at the official buying rate if registration with the Central Bank is desired. This also applies to foreign exchange sold by foreign companies for the purpose of obtaining local currency for salaries, taxes, and other local expenses. Foreign capital entering in the form of machinery and equipment may also be registered with the Central Bank. The Central Bank can refuse to register foreign capital if the investment is not considered to be in the inter- est of the Ecuadoran economy at that particular time. All unregistered private capital may enter without limitation through the free market. An Industrial Promotion Law provides for certain exemptions from import duties and import charges to three categories of industrial investment. Foreign exchange at the official rate may be obtained for the withdrawal of registered foreign investment from Ecuador five years after the date of registration. Exchange at the official rate is also granted for profit remittances up to 12 per cent a year on registered capital, and for interest up to 7.5 per cent on registered foreign loans, pro- vided that no amortization takes place during the first five years after registration. Contractual repayments of registered foreign loans may also be made at the official rate. All other capital remittances, either by residents or nonresidents, may be made through the free market. Capital receipts of the Government and of official entities are converted at the official buying rate, and payments at the official selling rate. However, the proceeds from certain loans granted to the Government and official entities by foreign financing organizations are converted by the Cen- tral Bank at the official selling rate of S/ 18.18, instead of at the official buying rate of S/ 17.82, per US$1. In such instances, the Central Bank receives from the Government or the borrower a payment of S/ 0.072 per US$1 as reimbursement for the Central Bank's share of the spread between the official buying and selling rates. Commercial banks are permitted to hold up to 10 per cent of their paid-up capital and reserves as assets in the form of their own holdings of for- eign exchange. Gold* Residents other than the Central Bank may export gold only in the form of filigree work whose gold content represents not more than 25 per cent of its market value. Imports of monetary gold are reserved for the Central Bank; they are treated as List I imports and are free of advance deposit and stabilization surcharge. Imports of nonmonetary gold in bars may be made either by the Central Bank or any other resident and are treated as List II imports subject to a 20 per cent advance deposit and a 20 per cent stabilization surcharge. Gold bars are exempt from import duty, while that on semiworked gold is 55 per cent ad valorem. 5 The 21.4 per cent export tax on bananas is levied on an assumed f.o.b. value expressed in sucres per pound that for bananas in boxes varies with province of origin, port of sh ipmen t, destination, and season. The official average weight per stem is 66.38 pounds for exports to the United States and 56.48 pounds for exports to other countries. 6 This section reflects the position on January 6, 1969, when Resolution No. 529 of the Monetary Board exempted imports of monetary gold from the advance deposit requirements. These imports were already exempt from import du ty and monetary stabilization surcharge. At the same time, imports of nonmonetary gold in bars were made subject to a 20 per cent advance deposit and remained subject to a 20 per cent stabilization surcharge. 138 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Changes during 1968 During the year, only minor changes took place in the advance deposit requirements and in the composition of the import lists. March 19. Decree No. 254 exempted the Flota Bananera Ecuatoriana from stabilization sur- charges on its imports. April 3. Resolution No. 512 of the Monetary Board exempted all imports by educational insti- tutions of equipment and material for laboratories from the advance deposit requirement; the prior authorization of the Central Bank was required, however, for such imports. June 12. Law No. 045 CL exempted certain imports of railroad equipment by the State Rail- ways f rom stabilization surcharges. June 27. Resolution No. 519 of the Monetary Board prohibited the import of certain moving equipment. July 16. A bilateral payments agreement with Rumania came into effect. August 1. A bilateral payments agreement with Bulgaria came into effect. August 7. Law No. 058 CL exempted imports made by the Ministry of National Defense from stabilization surcharges. August 23. Law No. 068 CL established an Export Promotion Fund for industrial products ECUADOR containing at least 70 per cent domestically pro- duced raw materials or parts. August 30. Law No. 067 CL exempted certain imports of railroad equipment from payment of stabilization surcharges. September 11. Resolution No. 523 of the Monetary Board prohibited imports of gold except when effected by the Central Bank. Previ- ously, residents could import gold freely. September 26. Ministerial Decree No. 6037 imposed a retention of US$1.50 a quintal on exports of sugar. This foreign exchange had to be deposited un t il fu r ther notice in a special blocked account with the Central Bank. November 28. Resolution No. 524 reduced tem- porarily the minimum surrender prices for bananas exported in boxes through Esmeraldas to US$0.01164 a pound when exported to the United States and Canada and to US$0.02448 when exported to other markets. The minimum surrender prices per stem were reduced to US$0.65 from January to June, US$0.45 from July to September, and US$0.75 from October to Decem- ber. December 27. Decree No. 500 provided that imports of monetary gold could only be made by the Central Bank and would be treated as List I imports. Imports of nonmonetary gold in bars could be made either by the Central Bank or other residents and would be treated as List II imports. 139 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.355468 gram of fine gold per Salvadoran Colon or C 2.50 = US$1. The rates of the Central Reserve Bank for transactions with the public are C 2.49 buying, and C 2.51 selling, per US$1. Exchange transactions by commercial banks with the public take place at or within these limits. A stamp tax of %0 of 1 per cent is appli- cable to all sales of exchange as well as drafts and other documents embodying a right to exchange; on amounts below C 100,000 the tax is levied at fixed amounts that may be slightly in excess of Yi o of 1 per cent. On November 6, 1946, El Salvador notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is exercised by the Central Reserve Bank of El Salvador through its Exchange Control Department. Authority to approve certain payments is delegated to the com- mercial banks. Exchange licenses for imports are issued by the Exchange Control Department. The Central Reserve Bank is also empowered to license exports, but this power has not been exercised. Exports of a number of commodities require licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy or of Agriculture. Exports of coffee are supervised by the Salvadoran Coffee Company and require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency Payments to Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and specified invisibles are settled in the currencies of those countries or in Salvadoran colones through the Camara de Compensacion Centroamericana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. Payments to Mexico are also settled through the clearinghouse. Other- wise, residents are free to make authorized pay- ments in any currency they choose. 140 Nonresident Accounts Accredited diplomatic missions and other for- eign institutions or persons established in El Sal- vador may be authorized to hold nonresident accounts in U.S. dollars with authorized banks, provided that such accounts are credited with for- eign exchange received from abroad. The accounts of nonresidents may be utilized freely, but the commercial banks must make periodic reports to the Central Reserve Bank of the movements on such accounts. The maximum balance which may be held on these accounts is fixed by the Exchange Control Department. Imports and Import Payments Imports from all countries except those of the Central American Common Market must be regis- tered with the Central Reserve Bank before orders are placed. Import licenses are required for air- planes, firearms, ammunition, military equipment, dynamite, liquors, cotton for industrial use, ju te sacks, skins, leather, some chemical and pharma- ceutical products, coffee for seeding, sugar, and saccharin. Payments and transfers abroad require exchange licenses, which are granted freely, pro- vided that (unless the goods are imported from other countries of the Central American Common Market) the terms of payment do not exceed cer- tain maxima: ( 1) Imports of machinery or equip- ment for use in stock raising or industry and imports of fertilizers, insecticides, greases, lubri- cants, and spare parts for vehicles and for machinery are authorized by the Exchange Con- trol Department when the terms of payment do not exceed 360 days (two years for machinery or equipment for use in agriculture) from the date of entry of the merchandise into a customs ware- house.1 (2) Imports of raw materials and inter- mediate goods for use in agriculture, stock raising, or industry must be paid for within 270 days (two years for raw materials and five years for intermediate goods for use in export industries).2 1 Eighteen months when the goods originate in coun- tries w i th which El Salvador has a favorable balance of trade, f rom which it receives loans w i th a ma tur i ty of at least 20 years, or with which an integration treaty is in force. 2 One year when the goods originate in countries with which El Salvador has a favorable balance of trade, from which it receives loans with a maturity of at least 20 years, or w i th which an integration treaty is in force. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution (3) Imports of essential food products, of med- icine, medical and surgical supplies, textbooks, and reference books must be paid for within 180 days. (4) Imports of all other commodities (except listed goods that previously were subject to a 100 per cent advance deposit) are authorized by the Exchange Control Department, provided that the terms of payment do not exceed 60 days. The Department has authority to permit terms of payment in excess of 360 days for those imports of machinery and equipment (except vehicles) that are ordered direct by the users and are not intended for resale or inventory. For specified goods previously subject to a 100 per cent advance deposit requirement when originating outside the Central American Common Market (including luxury foods, alcoholic bever- ages, cigarettes, perfumes and cosmetics, jewelry, watches, and all types of automobiles and buses, except jeeps and other vehicles with four-wheel dr ive), full payment is required before the goods can be cleared through customs. Imports of the same goods from other countries of the Central American Common Market are exempt f rom this requirement. The commercial banks are authorized to pro- vide exchange for import payments not exceeding US$6,000 for imports from Central American countries and US$2,000 for imports from all other countries; larger amounts have to be approved by the Central Reserve Bank. When suppliers abroad request payment in advance for commodities valued at over US$200, a prior deposit of 25 per cent calculated on the value of the advance pay- ment is required from the importer as a guarantee, but industrial and agricultural firms may be exempted. These regulations are also applicable to goods imported from other countries of the Central American Common Market. Guarantee deposits are refunded when the goods arrive in the country, provided that payment in full has been made to the exporter. Imports originating outside the Central Amer- ican Common Market are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import du ty. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles require exchange licenses, which are granted freely for most items, EL SALVADOR although for certain payments only up to specified limits. Net profits may generally be remitted up to a limit of 10 per cent a year of the registered cap- ital; higher transfers require the authorization of the Ministry of Economy. Permission to purchase exchange for travel outside the Central American area (interpreted to mean the Central American Common M a rk e t) for tourism, business, or health reasons is granted by the Exchange Control Department up to the equivalent of US$2,000 a person a trip, on the basis of US$50 a person a day; for amounts in excess of US$800 a person a trip, a 20 per cent deposit in local currency must be lodged with the Central Reserve Bank. The Department also generally authorizes transfers of up to US$300 a mon th to each Salvadoran with permanent residence abroad; larger amoun ts may be authorized when the need therefor is shown. Students also are allowed US$300 a mon th. For- eign exchange in excess of the limits given above is seldom granted. For nationals traveling to Central American countries, the commercial banks have been dele- gated au thor i ty to provide exchange as follows: for travel to Costa Rica, Honduras, and Nicaragua, the equivalent of C 500 a trip in Costa Rican colones, lempiras, or cordobas; for travel to Gua- temala, Guatemalan currency notes up to Q 1,000 a trip, or a cashiers check in Salvadoran colones up to the equivalent of C 2,500 a trip ( for pay- ment in Guatemala through the Camara de Com- pensation Centroamericana). Requests for larger amounts must be submitted to the Central Reserve Bank. Insurance and reinsurance premiums may be paid for in foreign exchange, provided that the insurance contract was registered with the Exchange Control Department at the time it took effect. Alternatively, insurance companies may receive premiums in colones and periodically obtain from the Exchange Control Department authorization to purchase the foreign currencies they are obliged to transfer abroad. Foreign cur- rencies derived from insurance or reinsurance con- tracts must be surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank or to an authorized commercial bank. Travelers may take out C 200 in domestic notes and coins. This limit is subject to modification, however, to facilitate border trade with other Cen- tral American countries. 141 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required except for a number of foodstuffs and other items of which the authorities wish to ensure an adequate local sup- ply, but the proceeds of all exports must be received through a bank in El Salvador and the foreign exchange must be surrendered to the Cen- tral Reserve Bank or an authorized commercial bank. Export transactions must be declared to the Exchange Control Department within 15 days of shipment. The collection terms normally must not exceed 90 days, but longer credit terms may be authorized by the Exchange Control Department. With the exception of sales to "new markets," exports of coffee are subject to an export tax. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank or an authorized commercial bank. Travelers may bring in € 200 in domestic notes and coins. This limit is subject to modification, however, to facilitate border trade with other Central American countries. Capital All exchange receipts resulting from capital transactions must be surrendered. Payments abroad representing capital movements require exchange licenses; such licenses are not granted for resident-owned capital except for investments in Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nic- aragua. The entry of capital in the form of foreign investment may be registered with the Ministry of Economy. Registration ensures ( 1) the remittance of net profits up to a limit of 10 per cent a year of the registered capital (larger amounts may be authorized in special cases by the Ministry of Economy; (2) amortization payments, subject to exchange control approval, and repatriation of the proceeds from the sale of the assets of the enter- prise (after payment of taxes) in an amount not exceeding the registered value of the inves tmen t ;3 3 A Central Reserve Bank circular of October 26, 1965 includes special regulations on the repatriation of regis- tered foreign investments. 142 and (3) with respect to loans, interest, and amor- tization as determined at the time of registration. Foreign investments made in El Salvador prior to June 1, 1961 must also be registered by the Minis- try of Economy or the Exchange Control Depart- ment in order to enjoy the same facilities. The Exchange Control Department authorizes, without restriction, the remittance abroad of foreign cur- rency for the payment of interest and amortization on short-term loans from abroad that have been approved by and registered with the Exchange Control Department. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in El Salvador for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Reserve Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1968 February 2. The restrictions on the use of sup- pliers' credits established by a resolution of the Central Bank on September 25, 1967 were eased for imports from countries with which El Salvador has a favorable trade balance, from those granting loans with a maturity of at least 20 years, and from those with which integration treaties are in force. November 9. An import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import duty was levied on commodities originating outside the Central Amer- ican Common Market. November 9. The 100 per cent advance deposit requirement for imports of certain nonessential goods from countries outside the Central American Common Market was abolished. Importers hence- for th had to pay in fu ll for these imports, however, before the goods could be cleared through customs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.355468 gram of fine gold per Ethiopian Dollar or Eth$2.50 = US$1. The official rates are Eth$2.475 buying, and Eth$2.525 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control All transactions in foreign exchange must be carried out through authorized banks and autho- rized dealers under the control of the National Bank of Ethiopia. All payments abroad and exports are subject to the supervision of the Exchange Controller, whose office is a department of the National Bank. Prescription of Currency Outgoing payments are normally made in for- eign exchange appropriate to the country of the recipient or in U.S. dollars or sterling. The net proceeds of exports must be received in a foreign currency that is freely convertible, or in any other foreign currency acceptable to the Exchange Con- troller. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may hold nonresident accounts either in Ethiopian dollars or in foreign currencies at authorized banks. Balances in these accounts may be freely transferred abroad. Transfers between nonresident accounts require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments No import licenses are required. However, pay- ments abroad for imports require exchange licenses; these licenses are granted freely in the currency appropriate to the country of origin, or in any convertible currency that may be requested. Goods ordered through a third country must be supported by evidence of original cost. Payment is normally authorized by letter of credit, mail trans- fer, telegraphic transfer, or cash against docu- ments at sight or on an acceptance basis; for goods which were previously subject to advance deposit requirements, however, the usance must not exceed 90 days. Advance import deposit require- ments at present apply to 104 import items, vir- tually all of which are consumer goods. The rate of the deposit is 100 per cent of the c.i.f. value. The deposits must be made in local currency by the importer before placing an order abroad and before applying to the central bank for an exchange license. They are kept in an "Import Blocked Account" at an authorized bank and can- not be released until the exchange license is pre- sented to the central bank for cancellation. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses. Invisibles connected with trade transac- tions are treated on the same basis as the goods to which they relate. Foreign nationals may remit up to 35 per cent of their salaries or annual taxable income, provided that they have resided in Ethi- opia for less than six years; this time limit does not apply to foreign nationals who are in contractual service with the Ethiopian Government or with an autonomous government organization and who have an employment contract specifically enti- tling them to remit a percentage of their earnings. Ineligible persons may apply for exchange to meet expenses for maintenance of bona fide dependents, education of children, medical care, and pre- miums on insurance policies taken out before April 2, 1962. Subject to proper provision having been made for local taxation, foreign companies may remit dividends on their invested and rein- vested capital in any currency. Persons traveling abroad are allowed foreign exchange equivalent to Eth$75 a day for a maxi- mum period of six weeks in any one calendar year if the journey is made for business purposes, and up to the equivalent of Eth$600 a year for persons 16 years of age or over and Eth$420 a year for those under 16, if the journey is made for pleasure. Travelers may take with them a maximum of Eth$100 in Ethiopian banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All commodities require export licenses. When applying for a license, an exporter must give details of the goods to be exported, the destina- tion, and the value. The granting of the license by the Exchange Controller enables the goods to pass through customs. The licensing system is 143 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA used to ensure that foreign exchange receipts are surrendered to the National Bank of Ethiopia within three months and that export proceeds are received in an appropriate currency (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Persons may bring in a maximum of Eth$100 in Ethiopian banknotes. Foreign exchange need not be declared by travelers on entry, and its re-export is freely permitted. Capital All receipts of capital in the form of foreign exchange must be surrendered. There is no dis- crimination regarding the currencies in which for- eign investments are accepted. Special conces- sions are made to approved new enterprises financed by foreign capital; these concessions include exemption from taxes for a period of five years, admission of all imports of machinery free of duty, and permission to foreign investors to remit abroad earned profits after taxation (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). Upon liquidation, transfer of the entire imported capital and reinvested profits is permitted in any cur- rency. Emigrants' allowances, transfers of leg- acies, and savings of foreign employees upon retirement are permitted up to the equivalent of Eth$70,000 in foreign currency. Transfers of sums in excess of this amount are authorized up to a total of Eth$70,000 in any subsequent 12-month period. Gold ownership of personal jewelry and articles of adornment of which gold or platinum forms a part also is permitted. Unless specifically autho- rized by the Minister of Finance, the possession or custody, in a quantity in excess of 10 ounces, of raw or refined gold or platinum or of gold or platinum in the form of nuggets, ores, or bullion constitutes an offense. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1968 March 1. The exchange allowance for business travel abroad was reduced from Eth$100 a day for a max imum period of six weeks to Eth$75 a day for a max imum of six weeks. The allowance for tourist travel was reduced from Eth$ 1,050 a year to Eth$600 a year for persons of 16 or over, and from Eth$735 a year to Eth$420 a year for persons under 16. April 1. Advance import deposit requirements were introduced for 104 commodities. Importers were required to deposit with authorized banks local currency corresponding to 100 per cent or 150 per cent of the c.i.f. value of these goods. The deposit must be made before applying for an exchange license from the central bank, and would not be released until the exchange license was returned to the central bank for cancellation. For items requiring a deposit of 150 per cent, however, a refund of the excess over the c.i.f. value could be obtained upon arrival of the goods. Residents may hold and acquire in Ethiopia gold coins of a special commemorative issue, as provided in Legal Notice No. 318 of 1966. The November 25. The advance deposit require- ment for imports subject to a 150 per cent deposit was reduced to 100 per cent. 144 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.211590 gram of fine gold per Finnish Markka or Fmk 4.19997 = US$1. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar vary within % of 1 per cent on either side of the par value. Market rates for certain other currencies l vary between limits which result from combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Finland and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. Forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Official, fixed buying and selling rates are applied to the U.S.S.R. ruble and the U.S. dollar when used as a un it of account on bilateral clearing accounts. Authorized banks may deal among themselves, with their Finnish customers, and with foreign authorized banks, in U.S. dollars and other convertible or externally convertible currencies. Forward transactions may be concluded freely for periods not exceeding 12 months; forward transactions with residents must have a commercial basis. Administration of Control The Bank of Finland operates the exchange control system, delegating authority to the author- ized exchange dealers (ma in ly commercial bank s ). Import and export licensing is administered by an office subordinate to the Ministry of Trade and Industry, the Licensing Office, which is headed by a Licensing Board composed of government officials, including a representative of the Bank of Finland. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, coun- tries are divided into two groups: the bilateral countries 2 and the convertible currency countries (all o the rs ). Settlements with the bilateral coun- tries must be made in the currency of the agree- ment or in Finnish ma rkkaa through Restricted Accounts. Settlements with the convertible cur- 1 These are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Icelandic kronur, Italian lire, Netherlands guild- ers, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 2 Finland has bilateral payments agreements w i th Bul- garia, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and U.S.S.R. rency countries may be made in any convertible currency or through Convertible Accounts. One half of the proceeds from exports to Colombia is set off against Finland's bilateral debtor balance. Nonresident Accounts There are four categories of nonresident accounts: Foreign Exchange Accounts, Con- vertible Markka Accounts, Restricted Ma rkka Accounts, and Capital Accounts. 1. Foreign Exchange Accounts are held by nonresidents in convertible or bilateral curren- cies.3 These accounts may be credited with amounts received in the currency in which the account is kep t; w i th payments authorized to be made in the currency in which the account is kep t; and with interest accrued on such accounts. They may be debited for t rans fe rs to Capital Accounts; for payments to residents of Finland; and for withdrawals in Finnish currency. If the account is held in a convertible currency, it may also be debited for transfers to other Foreign Exchange Accounts in any convertible currency and for transfers abroad or w i thdrawa ls in any convertible currency. If the account is held in a bilateral currency, it may be debited for transfers to other Foreign Exchange Accounts in the same currency and for transfers to the respective bi- lateral country. 2. Convertible Markka Accounts may be cred- ited with the equivalent in Finnish ma rkkaa of convertible currencies sold to an authorized bank; with authorized remittances from residents of Finland to residents of convertible currency coun- tries; with transfers from other Convertible Markka Accounts; with the value of Finnish banknotes received by an authorized bank from a bank in a convertible currency country; and with interest accrued on the account. They may be debited for authorized payments in Finland, including the purchase of foreign exchange; for remittances abroad; and for transfers to other Convertible Markka, Restricted Markka, or Capi- tal Accounts. 3. Restricted Markka Accounts are held by residents of countries with which Finland has bi- 3 Residents are also permitted Exchange Accounts. to hold Foreign 145 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND lateral payments agreements (see footnote 2 ). They may be credited with the proceeds from the sale of U.S. dollars, the currencies listed in foot- note 1, or the currency of the country of the account holder; with transfers from another Restricted Markka Account of the same country; with authorized remittances payable to the coun- try of the account holder; with the value of Fin- nish banknotes received by an authorized bank from a bank in the country of the account holder; and with interest accrued on the account. They may be debited for authorized payments in Fin- land in accordance with the relevant payments agreement; for transfers to other 'Restricted Markka Accounts related to the country of the account holder; for transfers to the country of the account holder; and for transfers to Capital Accounts. 4. Capital Accounts comprise all other non- resident accounts. They may be credited with funds available for credit to a Foreign Exchange Account, a Convertible Ma rkka Account, or a Restricted Markka Account; with proceeds from the sale to a resident of any asset held by a non- resident; with interest on the account; with income from nonresident-held assets; and with sums obtained from the redemption of bonds and deben- tures. If the account holder is a bank, the account may also be credited with transfers from a Capi- tal Account of a resident of the same country. Capital Accounts may be debited for noncom- mercial current expenses in Finland of and for account of the account holder; for investment in shares and in those bonds and debentures that are denominated in Finnish markkaa, provided that the securities are quoted on the stock exchange and are purchased by a bank on behalf of the holder; for transfers to the Capital Account of a bank located in the same country as that of the account holder; and for monthly transfers abroad up to Fmk 2,000 to an account holder who has resided abroad during the last calendar year, and continues to do so, provided that he is destitute in his country of residence. Other transfers between Capital Accounts and other transfers abroad of funds deposited in Capital Accounts require the specific permission of the Bank of Finland. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Most goods may be imported free of license from 146 the multilateral area or license-free area (i.e., nearly all countries with which Finland does not have bilateral payments a g r e em e n t s4), provided that the goods are purchased from and originate in that area. Certain other goods may be imported from the multilateral area under a global quota system, which provides for import licenses to be issued at least up to the amounts of certain value quotas for specified commodity groups; no indus- trial goods are restricted by global quotas. The total value of the global quotas for 1968 amounted to less than 2 per cent of total 1967 imports. All remaining goods require an individual license when imported from the multilateral area and are set out in a negative list, the discretionary licens- ing list, which comprises only agricultural com- modities and petroleum products. Import licenses are not required for most commodities originating in and shipped from the U.S.S.R., and for many commodities originating in and shipped from the other bilateral countries; all commodities liberal- ized for import from the bilateral area are among those already liberalized for import from the mul- tilateral area. For goods that do not require a license when imported from the bilateral area, the importer must file an import control declaration with the customs for statistical purposes. Other imports from the bilateral countries are admitted under licenses up to quotas provided for under the relevant trade agreement. All imports of com- modities originating in countries classified neither in the multilateral area nor in the bilateral area require individual licenses. The State Granary is the sole agency for the import of wheat, rye, bar- ley, oats, and products of these grains for human consumption. There is a state monopoly also for imports of alcoholic beverages. Exchange is granted without delay for all per- mitted imports on presentation of an application form, the import license if required, and the origi- nal commercial invoice, provided that the goods are already in the country or there is sufficient evidence to guarantee their importation. Payment for imports must be made within six months after the arrival of goods in the country. For imports on credit of over six months, the credit must be authorized by the Bank of Finland. 4 Among the exceptions are the Republic of China and the Republic of Viet-Nam. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for Invisibles The authorized banks have general permission to effect payments for most current invisibles, subject in some cases to a max imum allowance or other conditions; for other transactions, with few exceptions, exchange licenses are granted liberally by the Bank of Finland. All contracts involving payments to nonresidents for which general per- mission has not been granted must be submitted to the Bank of Finland for approval. A Finnish resident going abroad may purchase f rom commercial banks foreign exchange equiva- lent to Fmk 1,000 a trip, irrespective of his desti- nation. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out Fmk 100 a trip in Finnish notes and coins and any reasonable amount in foreign notes and coins; travelers to neighboring countries mak- ing frequent trips to destinations not located beyond any municipality adjoining Finland's land boundary may take out Fmk 100 a person a month in Finnish notes and coins. The automatic exchange allocation for business travel is the equivalent of Fmk 120 a day. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Export licenses are required only for exports of metal scrap. Exports of other goods require only an export control declaration, which is approved automatically by the Licensing Office except in a few specified cases. Certain exports to countries not in the multilateral area are restricted. Foreign exchange acquired through commodity exports must be surrendered to the Bank of Finland or an authorized exchange dealer. However, exporters are permitted to keep a part of their export pro- ceeds in foreign exchange accounts with Finnish banks or with banks abroad. The accounts may be used by the exporter to pay for incidental expenses related to exports and for authorized imports of raw materials, equipment, and machinery. The Bank of Finland may at any time claim the accounts against payment at the official rate. A number of commodities are subject to export taxes; the rates of tax have been decreased progressively, and the act authorizing their impo- sition is to expire at the end of 1969. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of freight earnings, foreign exchange receipts derived from current invisibles FINLAND do not have to be surrendered. The authorized exchange dealers and shipping firms are allowed to maintain their own working balances in foreign exchange, under the supervision of the Bank of Finland. The import of Finnish and foreign means of payment by nonresident travelers and returning Finnish residents is unrestricted. Capital Most outward transfers of nonresident capital are subject to approval by the Bank of Finland. Inheritances are in most cases transferable with- out limitation and, subject to certain conditions, are generally transferred automatically up to Fmk 100,000 for each beneficiary. Nonresidents who have resided outside Finland for the last calendar year and continue to do so are permitted to repatriate their blocked funds within three years ( 1) by annual installments of Fmk 12,500 for amounts not exceeding Fmk 50,000, or ( 2) by four equal annual installments for amounts exceeding Fmk 50,000. To the annual install- ments may be added interest accrued on the account calculated in conformity with the ordi- nary rate of bank interest paid on deposits. More- over, persons who have resided abroad since September 1, 1939 and foreign corporate bodies that have maintained an account with a Finnish monetary institution since that date are permitted to repatriate their balances freely. Persons who have resided abroad continuously for the last three years and whose funds in Finland during that period have been invested in Finland in domestic securities or direct investments may have these funds transferred abroad at any time. Nonresidents may purchase through an author- ized bank, against convertible or externally con- vertible currencies or by debiting a Convertible Markka Account, bonds, debentures, or shares quoted on the Helsinki stock exchange. When the securities so acquired by a nonresident are depos- ited in the custody of the authorized bank, the nonresident purchaser is permitted to sell the securities on the stock exchange through the authorized bank and to repatriate the proceeds of the sale in a convertible or an externally convert- ible currency. No permission is needed for the acquisition with funds classified as Capital Accounts of shares, bonds, and debentures quoted on the stock exchange, but proceeds from the sale of such securities may not be repatriated 147 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND without the permission of the Bank of Finland. Any other transactions in, and the export of, securities involving nonresident interests require approval. If the securities were acquired with con- vertible foreign exchange or with ma rkkaa from a Convertible Markka Account, approval for their export can be obtained freely. The import of securities by nonresidents and returning Finnish residents is unrestricted. The regulations concerning foreign direct investments are as follows. All incoming capital transactions must be approved by the Bank of Finland, which considers the foreign exchange aspect. The Bank grants permission liberally, unless the investment is judged to be exceptionally detrimental to the national interest or to be of a purely financial character. Repatriation of direct investments made by means of import of capital is free. Foreign investments that involve a partici- pation of more than 20 per cent in the capital of an enterprise require, in certain cases, the approval of the State Council. This approval, when required, is usually granted liberally. The primary reason for the 20 per cent limit is con- cern for the protection of natural resources, mainly forests. Direct foreign investments in the forest and mining industries are not normally permitted. On demand of the Bank of Finland, residents must declare their foreign assets and the yields on their property owned abroad. Proceeds from the sale of securities and real property abroad must be surrendered. Outward transfers of capital by residents require individual approval; investment by residents in foreign securities or real estate is rarely permitted. For direct investment abroad, approval is granted on the merits of each case. Finnish emigrants are granted an exchange allowance of up to Fmk 50,000 a person. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, and sell gold in any form at home. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Licensing Office; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Com- mercial imports of articles containing gold require licenses issued by the Licensing Office; for most such articles, these are granted freely. Exports of gold are subject to the same regulations as exports 148 of other commodities, i.e., an export control decla- ration is usually sufficient. Changes during 1968 January 1. The automatic allocation of exchange for tourist travel was increased to Fmk 1,000 a person a trip, irrespective of desti- nation, from Fmk 400 a trip for travel to Scandi- navian countries and Fmk 800 a trip for other countries. The additional exchange allocation for travel services (other than transportation) included in the cost of a trip paid for in domestic currency before departure was fixed at Fmk 1,000 a person a trip; amounts in excess of Fmk 500 were to be deducted f rom the standard tourist exchange allocation. January 1. A number of changes were intro- duced in the regulations governing Capital Accounts. The max imum permitted amounts for certain outward capital transfers were revised. The minimum period over which the repatriation of nonresident-owned blocked funds must be spread was reduced. January 1. Payments with Colombia were placed on a convertible currency basis and Colom- bia was included in the multilateral area. How- ever, in order to settle the closing balance due to Colombia, that country was entitled to use these funds in settlement of 50 per cent of its imports f rom Finland. January 1. The special regulations applicable to payments to Brazil were abolished. January 1. The import regulations for 1968 entered into force. Imports equivalent to 8.6 per cent of 1967 imports were liberalized, mainly as a result of the abolition of the last remaining quantitative restrictions on industrial imports from EFT A countries. These included passenger auto- mobiles and trucks. Virtually all nonagricultural goods except fuels and fertilizers were now unre- stricted. The remaining global quotas were increased by an average of 28 per cent over their 1967 levels. January 1. All imports could again be paid for w i th in six months of arrival in Finland. Previ- ously, most imports of finished consumer goods had to be paid for before customs clearance. January 1. The limits (in terms of foreign cur- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND rency) were raised up to which authorized banks could, w i thout the prior approval of the Bank of Finland, provide foreign exchange to residents for a number of specified purposes. February 15. Most export taxes were reduced by 2 percentage points. The max imum rate was lowered from 14 per cent to 12 per cent. July 1. Imports were liberalized of those com- modities for which the abolition of quan t i ta t ive restrictions had been agreed du r ing the Kennedy Round negotiations. The level of liberalization for the mu l t i la teral countries was raised to 95 per cent of 1954 imports. The new liberalization mea- sures were also extended to the bilateral area. July 1. A new an t idump ing law came into effect, replacing that of June 28, 1958. July 26. All exports to and imports from Rho- desia were prohibited. August 30. Most export taxes were reduced by one th ird. The max imum rate now was 8 per cent. December 3. Most export taxes were fu r th er reduced by 2 percentage points. The max imum rate now was 6 per cent. 149 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE * Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.180000 gram of fine gold per French Franc or F 4.93706 = US$1. Market rates for spot exchange transactions in U.S. dollars are maintained between official limits of F 4.90 buy- ing, and F 4.9740 selling, per US$1. Market rates for Western European currencies and a few other currencies fluctuate between limits which result from combining the official limits for the U.S. dol- lar maintained by France and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. Forward exchange transactions take place at freely negotiated rates. Authorized banks in France and in Monaco, which may also act on behalf of banks established abroad or in Operations Account countries (see section on Exchange Control Terri- tory, below), are permitted to deal spot or for- ward in the exchange market in France. Autho- rized banks may also deal with their correspon- dents in foreign markets in all currencies. How- ever, restrictions have been imposed on the credit in francs that banks may grant to nonresidents, and each bank's exchange position is subject to limitation. Residents other than banks may con- clude forward exchange contracts only in respect of imports of specified commodities. France accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory The exchange control regulations are applicable in all territories of the French Republic except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas, i.e., in continental France, Corsica, the Overseas Depart- ments (Guadeloupe, Martinique, Guiana, and Reun ion), and five of the six Overseas Territories (Comoro Islands, St. Pierre and Miquelon, New Caledonia, Wallis and Futuna Islands, and French Polynesia). No exchange control is applied in rela- tion to the Principality of Monaco or the Opera- tions Account countries (Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, Congo (Brazzaville), Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, 1 In view of certain changes that took place on Janua ry 1, 1969 (see note at the end of this su rvey ), this survey presents the position on that date. 150 and Upper V o l t a ) ;2 payments between France and these countries are free of restriction. All other countries are considered foreign countries for exchange control purposes; all payments between France and foreign countries are subject to exchange control. The Condominium of the New Hebrides is considered a foreign country for exchange control purposes. For imports and exports of gold, however, the Operations Account countries are also considered foreign countries.3 Certain controls that are independent of the exchange control regulations are maintained over inward and outward direct investment and over borrowing abroad; these do not apply to relations with the Operations Account countries or Monaco. Privileged treatment in respect of trade trans- actions is accorded to ( 1) the Operations Account countries and (2) Algeria, Cambodia, Guinea, Laos, Morocco, Tunisia, North Viet-Nam, Repub- lic of Viet-Nam, and the Condominium of the New Hebrides.4 Administration of Control The Directorate of the Treasury of the Ministry of Economy and Finance is the coordinating agency in the field of financial relations with for- eign countries. It is in charge of exchange control and of all matters relating to inward and outward direct investment and to borrowing abroad. The Directorate also evaluates the balance of pay- ments, together with the Bank of France, which collects the data for its compilation. Certain 2 Countries whose ins t i tu te of issue ma in ta ins an Operations Account with the French Treasury. 3 Present French legislation no longer makes reference to the concept French Franc Area. From an exchange control point of view, this Area ceased to exist with effect from January 31, 1967. In the context of coun- tries' over-all relations with France, however, the con- cept survives. In this sense the French Franc Area con- sists of France and the following countries: ( 1) the countries of the West African Monetary Union (Da- homey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta; (2) the countries of the Central Afr ican Customs and Economic Union (Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo (Brazzaville), and Gabon ); (3) three North African countries (Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia); and (4) two other countries (Malagasy Republic and Ma l i ). This definition is followed, inter alia, in compiling the balance of payments. 4 These countries and territories are listed in Article 86 of an Order of January 30, 1967 of the Director- General of Customs and Indirect Taxes (as amended on February 6 and May 31, 1967). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exchange control powers have been delegated to the Bank of France, including the authority to license imports and exports of gold. Other exchange control powers have been delegated to the Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes and in the Overseas Departments and Ter- ritories to the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique. The Directorate of Insurance of the Ministry of Economy and Finance has certain powers in respect of matters relating to insurance, reinsurance, annuities, etc. The material execution of all transfers has been delegated to authorized banks and stockbrokers and to the Postal Admin- istration. The Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes establishes import and export pro- cedures and controls within the framework of commercial policy directives established by the Directorate of Foreign Economic Relations; the Directorate-General also issues import and export licenses. Technical visas required for certain imports and exports are issued by the competent ministry or by the Directorate-General of Cus- toms and Indirect Taxes. The Ministry of Indus- try has certain responsibilities in respect of licens- ing contracts and contracts relating to technical assistance. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Operations Account countries may be made in French francs or the currency issued by any institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury.5 Settlements with all other countries may be made in any of the currencies of those countries, or through nonresident Foreign Accounts in Francs (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Nonresident Accounts A nonresident account in francs may be opened by an authorized bank for nonresidents, including French nationals (other than French officials) who have been residing abroad for at least two years. All overdrafts on nonresident-held franc 5 In addition to the institutes of issue of the Opera- tions Account countries (see section on Exchange Con- trol Territory, above), these are the institute of issue of the French Overseas Departments ( for Guadeloupe, Martinique, Guiana, and Reun ion ); the Overseas Insti- tu te of Issue (for New Caledonia, French Polynesia, and Wallis and Fu tuna Is lands); the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique ( for St. Pierre and M ique lon ); and the Bank of Madagascar and the Comores ( for the Comoro Islands). FRANCE accounts are subject to general or specific permis- sion; overdrafts corresponding to normal mail delays that are granted by authorized banks to their foreign correspondents are covered by a gen- eral permission. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be freely credited with the following: (1) The franc pro- ceeds of the sale of foreign currencies on the French exchange market by a nonresident. (2) The f ranc proceeds of the sale of foreign banknotes to an authorized bank by a nonresident; foreign banknotes are defined as excluding those issued by an institute of issue that maintains an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury (see foot- note 5 ). (3) The franc equivalent of an autho- rized bank's arbitrage in foreign currencies on a foreign market, provided that the regulations of the country concerned allow the transaction. (4) Transfers from another Foreign Account in Francs. (5) Amounts resulting from French secu- rities held in a foreign dossier (interest, dividends, liquidation proceeds, etc .). (6) Interest, dividends, and amortization on foreign securities held in a foreign dossier (but not their sales proceeds). (7) The proceeds of the liquidation by a nonresi- dent of a direct investment, provided that the liquidation itself has taken place in accordance with the relevant provisions (those of Decree No. 67-78 of January 27, 1967). (8) The pro- ceeds of the sale, through the intermediary of a notary public, of real estate belonging to a non- resident. These accounts may also be credited with any authorized payment by a resident to a foreign country. French banknotes may not be credited to nonresident accounts. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be freely deb- ited for the following: (1) The purchase by a nonresident of any foreign currency on the French exchange market. (2) The purchase by a non- resident of foreign banknotes from an authorized bank. ( 3) The equivalent in francs of arbitrage abroad in foreign currencies by an authorized bank, provided that the regulations of the country concerned allow the transaction. (4) Transfers to another Foreign Account in Francs. (5) Any pay- ment to a resident. Imports and Import Payments Goods originating in and shipped from other parts of the French Franc Area or from certain 151 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE other countries that are accorded privileged treat- ment in respect of trade transactions (see section on Exchange Control Territory, above) are gen- erally admitted free of quan t i ta t ive restriction and individual license. Imports of goods which orig- inate in other countries and are not covered by French import liberalization require individual licenses. Some imports from EEC countries and some other imports from non-EEC countries are subject to m in imum prices; these require an administrative visa and sometimes, exceptionally, an import license. For import control purposes, countries outside the French Franc Area are divided into four groups according to the extent of import liberal- ization: ( 1) the former OEEC countries, their dependent territories and certain former dependent territories, Andorra, Canada, Finland, the United States, and Yugoslavia; (2) 49 specified coun- t r ie s ;6 (3) the Eastern European countries (Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Ruman ia, and the U.S.S.R.) and main- land China; and (4) certain other countries not included in any of the foregoing groups. Eastern Germany occupies an intermediate position between categories ( 3) and ( 4 ). Imports from all countries of certain agricultural items and cer- tain raw materials are free of quantitative restric- tions. Commodities that may be imported free of quantitative restrictions from one group of coun- tries include all the commodities that may be freely imported f rom the next group of countries plus some other specified commodities. Goods covered by the import liberalization arrangements applicable to one country may be imported freely from another country, provided that the country of origin and the country of shipment both benefit from the liberalization. Imports of practically all industrial products from countries in group (1) are free of quanti- tative restrictions, but such restrictions are applied to a number of agricultural products; there is 6 A fghan i s tan, Argen t ina, Aus t ra l ia, Bhu tan, Bolivia, Brazil, Bu rma, Ceylon, Chile, Republic of China, Colom- bia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dom in ican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Gua tema la, Ha i t i, Honduras, Ind ia, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Korea, Lebanon, Liberia, Libya, Mexico, Nepal, New Zealand, N ica ragua, Pak is tan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Ph i l ip- pines, Saudi Arabia, South Afr ica, Sudan, Syrian A rab Republic, Thailand, United Arab Republic, Uruguay, Venezuela, and Yemen. 152 relatively little difference between the lists of goods which may be imported freely from different coun- tries in this group, these differences relating mainly to Canada, the United States, Hong Kong, and Macao. Imports of 54 industrial products from countries in group (2) are restricted, and restric- tions are applied to these 54 and to certain addi- tional industrial products from group ( 3) coun- tries. For some commodities, there are global quotas that are allocated semiannually and apply to all countries other than those hav ing the bene- fit of privileged treatment. Imports from non-EEC countries of most prod- ucts covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC (including cereals, rice, pork, eggs, and poultry mea t) are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EEC regulations are also applied to imports f rom non-EEC countries of beef, veal, dairy products, olive oil, most other oils and fa ts, sugar, and specified f ru i ts and vegetables. Liberalized imports are not subject to trade control formalities other than the domiciliation of the import transaction, only a customs document that constitutes the customs declaration being required. For some liberalized imports, an admin- istrative visa issued by the central customs admin- istration or by the competent technical ministry is required on an import declaration. Imports of the products of the European Coal and Steel Com- mun i ty require licenses, which are issued auto- matically. Other imports generally require individual import licenses. These are granted up to quotas determined on an individual commodity basis or for a group of commodities and applicable to specified countries or areas in accordance with trade agreements or an import plan drawn up for a definite period. Moreover, licenses may be issued under the IMEX and EXIM procedures,7 which provide for the importation of raw materials and other goods needed to produce goods for export, or under the compensation transaction procedure, 7 Under the IMEX procedure, licenses are issued for impor ts of goods needed to produce goods for export. The lag between impor ta t ion and exportation may not exceed six months. Under the EX IM procedure, export- ers are assured of receiving import licenses for the subse- quent impor ta t ion of goods used in the production of their exports. The t ime lag between exportation and impor ta t ion is six to n ine months. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution which applies mainly to agricultural items from Eastern European countries. Because of the high degree of import liberalization, imports under these schemes now are of very slight importance. Import transactions relating to foreign countries and exceeding F 250 in value must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank, to which the necessary import documents must be pre- sented and through which all payments related to the import must be made. Unless advance pay- ments have been authorized, the importer can buy his foreign exchange ( 1) if a documentary c r ed i t8 is opened, when he submits proof that the com- modities will be shipped to France within eight days, or (2) if the goods have been imported, upon submission of the customs declaration, but at the earliest eight days before the import pay- ment falls due. The import payment itself can be made ( 1) if a documentary credit has been opened, upon receipt of advice from the bank's foreign correspondent bank that the shipping documents (showing direct shipment either to the French customs territory or to a nearby port, such as Antwerp or Ro t te rdam) have been submitted to it; ( 2) if a draft accompanied by shipping documents (effet documentaire, remise documen- taire) is presented to the authorized bank, when the bank has verified that the documents cover the goods concerned and that they have been shipped (to the customs territory or a neighboring po r t ); or ( 3) in all other cases, if the importer submits the customs declaration (unless he already did so when purchasing his foreign currency). Advance payments for imports require a special authoriza- tion from the Customs Administration which must be submitted to the authorized bank before it can make the corresponding payment. Forward cover for import payments can be obtained only for the import of a few specified commodities (unroasted coffee, corn, rice, etc.) and is subject to prior approval by the Customs Administration, which is empowered to request all details needed to assure itself that the transaction is genuine and to ascertain whether the forward cover requested does not exceed the applicant 8 Authorized banks are free to open a letter of credit as soon as a pro forma invoice or some other proof of a commercial contract is submitted. The credit may have a va l id i ty of three mon ths, w i th in which the goods must be shipped, but this period can be extended for another three-month period. FRANCE firm's normal needs. Forward cover can only be taken in the currency of invoicing prescribed in the commercial contract and cannot exceed a period of one month. (On January 19, 1969 the number of commodities eligible for forward cover was increased considerably, and for some of them the permissible period of cover was extended to three months.) Payments for Invisibles The allocation of exchange for travel to foreign countries is restricted. Payments for other current invisibles to foreign countries are controlled but not restricted. If justifying documents are presented and cer- tain exchange control requirements are met, autho- rized banks are permitted to approve applications for payments without any limitation for many categories of current invisibles, and up to estab- lished limits for certain other categories of cur- rent invisibles. Applications for other payments for invisibles are referred to the Bank of France to prevent unauthorized capital trans- fers. Any resident may make remittances abroad up to the equivalent of F 250 a person a year without indicating their purpose; the amounts concerned are deducted, however, f rom the annual tourist allowance. Payments which may be authorized without limitation include those related to approved trade transactions; to income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties; to banking commissions, patent fees, and specified categories of taxes; to specified insurance pay- ments; to fees to medical doctors, lawyers, etc.; to alimony in accordance with court decisions; and to net salaries of foreigners employed in France, provided that the transfer takes place within three months from the date of payment. Irrespective of the exchange control regulations, certain transactions between persons or firms in France and abroad are subject to restriction; these include certain transactions relating to insurance, reinsurance, intellectual property rights, road and river transport, and motion-picture films. The exchange allocation for tourist travel to foreign countries is the equivalent of F 1,000 a person a year (F 500 for children under 10). The allocation for business travel is the equivalent of 153 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE F 200 a person a day, subject to a maximum of F 2,000 a trip, for travel to Algeria, Austria, Bel- gium, Cyprus, Denmark, Finland, the Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jordan, Lebanon, Libya, Luxem- bourg, Malta, Morocco, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, Turkey, the United Arab Republic, the United Kingdom, and Yugoslavia. For business travel to all other foreign countries it is the equivalent of F 300 a person a day, sub- ject to a ceiling of F 3,000 a trip. Applications for exchange in excess of the basic allowances for business travel are considered on their merits by the Bank of France. Exchange allocations for tourist and business travel must be registered by authorized banks in a personal foreign exchange booklet (carnet de change). If a traveler makes use of the facility allowing a resident to make payments abroad up to F 250 a year w i thout indi- cating the purpose of the remittance, then the amount transferred must be recorded in the exchange booklet and is deducted from the annual allowance for tourist travel. Any unutilized foreign currency in excess of the equivalent of F 100 must be surrendered upon return to France. Applica- tions for travel exchange cannot be submitted earlier than one month before departure. The use of credit cards abroad is prohibited. All fares may be paid in francs in France. Resident travelers going to foreign countries may take out F 200 in French banknotes, or F 50 if they go abroad for less than 24 hours. These banknotes may be spent abroad. Nonresident travelers may take out F 200 in French banknotes and may reconvert into foreign currency any French banknotes up to F 500 obtained by con- version of foreign means of payment that they declared upon entry; any remaining French bank- notes must be deposited with the customs against issuance of a receipt. Resident travelers may take out half of their travel exchange allowance in foreign notes and coins. Nonresident travelers may not take out more than the equivalent of F 500 in foreign banknotes unless they were declared upon entry and the annotated declaration form shows that the amount to be taken out does not exceed that imported m inus any amounts exchanged for francs plus any reconversions of francs into foreign currencies. 154 Exports and Export Proceeds Certain goods on a prohibited export list may only be exported if a special license is issued. Some other exports also require individual licenses; but if the total value does not exceed F 500, these exports may be permitted without any forma l i ty, subject to certain exceptions. Regardless of their value, exports under the IMEX or EXIM procedures, or through com- pensation transactions with certain countries,9 require licenses if the commodities are those for which export licenses are required. Exports to foreign countries are subject to exchange control. The repatriation 10 and, where appropriate, the surrender of proceeds from exports to foreign countries is required, normally within one month of the date on which the pay- ment falls due. The due date of the commercial contract cannot, except with special authorization, be more than 180 days after arrival of the goods at their destination. Such proceeds must not be received in French banknotes or banknotes issued by an institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, nor by debit to a postal checking account in France. All export transactions relating to foreign countries and val- ued at F 1,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exports to foreign countries of most goods other than agricultural commodities and fuel receive a temporary export subsidy.11 Certain goods purchased in France by persons not normally residing in France are considered as exports even when paid for in French francs, and are exempt from taxes. Holders of exporters' cards, which are issued to enterprises that export a certain percentage of their production, are entitled to obtain every year import licenses for any commodity still subject to quota and related to their export activity, up to a value corresponding to 10 per cent of their export proceeds in foreign currencies received in the previous year. 9 Albania, Bulgaria, ma in land China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Nor th Korea, Poland, Ruman ia, Turkey, U.S.S.R., United Arab Republic, Yugoslavia, and certain Latin American countries. 10 Repatriation may take place either by collection of foreign currency or by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs. 11 The export subsidy was abolished on January 31, 1969. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles w i th Monaco and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be repatriated and, where appropriate, surrendered, within one month from the due date. With minor exceptions for certain types of trans- actions, services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins (except gold coins) in French francs, CFA francs, Mala- gasy francs, CFP francs, or any foreign currency; however, the exchange of banknotes issued by Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia is prohibited at the request of those countries. Capital Capital movements between France and Mon- aco and the Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers between France and all other countries are subject to exchange control approval. Outward transfers of resident-owned capital gen- erally are restricted; capital receipts from foreign countries generally are permitted freely, provided that the foreign exchange proceeds are surren- dered. Capital assets abroad of residents are not subject to repatriation. The transfer abroad of nonresident-owned funds in France, including the sales proceeds of capital assets, is not restricted; as an exception, although nonresident-owned for- eign securities may be exported, they cannot be sold in France. Foreign securities held in France by residents must be deposited with a bank or broker, as must any securities held in France by or on behalf of a nonresident. The exportation for the account of residents of French securities held in France is prohibited. All securities held abroad by residents prior to November 25, 1968, under the control of an authorized bank, can only be dealt with in one of the following ways: ( 1) they may be kept abroad, under the control of an authorized bank; (2) they may be sold abroad, in which case the sales proceeds mus t, within a month of receipt, FRANCE either be sold on the French exchange market or be used by the seller himself to purchase French or foreign securities abroad; and (3) they may be imported through the intermediary of an authorized bank. Purchases of securities abroad by residents cannot be financed with foreign cur- rency acquired on the French exchange market; they may only be made, through the intermediary of an authorized bank, with the foreign exchange proceeds from the sale abroad of securities already held abroad under the control of an authorized bank. Residents are not allowed to pur- chase foreign currency on the French exchange market in order either to acquire foreign securities by purchase or subscription or to acquire rights to foreign securities. All these transactions are permitted but must be financed, through the inter- mediary of an authorized dealer, with foreign exchange resulting from the sale abroad, by the same person, of securities held abroad under the control of an authorized bank. Securities acquired in this manner must be placed under the control of an authorized bank. The foreign exchange resulting from amortization of foreign securities is available for the same purposes as that resulting from the sale abroad of French or foreign secu- rities. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over capital issues on the French market, and on inward and outward direct investment, but these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to pay- ments or receipts. With the exception of the con- trols over capital issues in France, the control measures do not apply to relations with countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Foreign direct investments in France and French direct investments abroad must be declared to the Minister of Economy and Finance when they are being made. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a com- pany or enterprise. Mere participation is not con- sidered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on the stock exchange. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration, during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. Insofar as the liquida- 155 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE tion of direct investments is concerned, whether these are French investments abroad or foreign investments in France, the liquidation must be reported, and the report must be submitted within 20 days following each liquidation. Foreign issues on the French capital market remain subject to prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance.12 Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connec- tion with ( 1) loans backed by a guarantee from the French Government, (2) shares similar to securities that already are officially quoted on a stock exchange in France, or ( 3) securities whose issue has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in France, or by branches or subsidiaries in France of juridi- cal persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. The following are, how- ever, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are sub- ject to prior declaration, as indicated above; ( 2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial trans- actions either between France and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take par t; ( 3) loans con- tracted by banks; and ( 4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstand- ing of these loans does not exceed F 2 million for any one borrower. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization and is restricted. With minor exceptions, all overdrafts on Foreign Accounts in Francs and all advances to nonresidents require prior approval. The Bank of France has imposed limits on the foreign exchange positions 13 of the authorized banks and on their claims in francs on foreign countries. Banks are prohibited from mak- ing, extending, or renewing the following loans in French francs: loans to foreign banking corre- spondents to finance transactions between foreign 12 Since 1916, all foreign capital issues in France have required approval. 13 Total of each bank's own spot and forward posi- tions in fore ign currency vis-a-vis residents and nonresi- den ts comb ined, exc lud ing positions of customers. 156 countries, loans to other nonresident customers for operations not linked to French exports, and loans to foreign correspondents or customers in the form of swaps against foreign currencies. Nonresidents are free to subscribe to French short-term securities. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in France. They may continue to hold abroad any gold they held there prior to November 25, 1968. There is a free gold market for bars and coins in Paris, to which residents have free and anonymous access. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Bank of France, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are ( 1) imports and exports of gold addressed to or shipped by the Bank of France; ( 2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing only a minor quan t i ty of gold, such as gold-filled and gold-plated articles; and ( 3) imports and exports of gold objects (other than coins and bars, but including both personal and other jewelry) whose combined weight does not exceed 500 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Exempt from licensing by the Bank of France are collectors' items of gold and gold antiques that are exported under "02 licenses" granted with the approval of the Directorate of Museums. The import and export of certain gold objects that are considered merchandise, such as gold watches, is subject to both the regular import and export licensing arrangements and to licensing by the Bank of France. In domestic trading, purchases of gold bars and coins are subject to value-added tax. Imports of gold bars and coins are subject to customs duty and to value-added tax. Changes during 1968 January 7. The coverage of the value-added tax was expanded and certain turnover taxes were abolished. The basic rate of value-added tax was reduced from 20 per cent to 16% per cent and the highest rate from 25 per cent to 20 per cent. The lowest rate remained at 6 per cent and the intermediate rate was increased to 13 per cent. January 1. The import preferences granted to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution peanuts when originating in Operations Account countries were terminated. January 12. Imports from all sources of pea- nuts and peanut oil were liberalized. February 27. Additional imports were lib- eralized when originating in and shipped from Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslo- vakia, Hungary, Poland, Ruman ia, or the U.S.S.R. Imports of most of these commodities were also liberalized when orginating in and shipped from Eastern Germany. March 29. The Central Bank of Mali estab- lished an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Mali ceased to be treated as a foreign country. March 30. A trade protocol with Japan was signed which provided for fu r ther reciprocal relaxation and elimination of import restrictions. April 14. The French Overseas Territories abolished all quantitative restrictions on commodi- ties originating in and shipped from EEC coun- tries, Surinam, and the Netherlands Antilles. April 23. Imports of many commodities were freed from quantitative restrictions when originat- ing in and shipped from Eastern Germany. April 24. An agreement was signed with India concerning imports of specified Indian cotton textiles. Specified items would remain free from quantitative restrictions. The agreement would be valid for the period from October 1, 1967 to September 30, 1970. May 4. A revised negative list was issued for imports from 49 specified countries (see footnote 6 ). The revision reflected the liberalization of imports of additional commodities from these countries. May 20. The exchange market and the gold market were closed. They reopened on June 7. May 29. Exchange control between France and foreign countries was temporarily reintro- duced by Decree No. 68-481. Exchange trans- actions, capital movements, and payments of any kind between France and foreign countries, or in France between a resident and a nonresident, could not, except with the prior approval of the Minister of Economy and Finance, be effected otherwise than through the intermediary of an FRANCE authorized bank. Unless authorized by the Minister, all transfers or exchange transactions in France were prohibited that would lead to the constitution of assets abroad by a resident or to the holding in France of foreign means of pay- ment by a resident. The prior approval of the Minister was required for payments or transfers of any kind made by a resident either to a foreign country or in France in favor of a non- resident. Such prior approval was also required for the export by or on behalf of a resident of means of payment (including checks and d ra f t s) or securities, and for the import and export of gold. Residents were obliged to repatriate and, where appropriate, surrender through sale on the foreign exchange market, all claims on foreign countries or on nonresidents that resulted from exports or from the performance of services, as well as generally all earnings or proceeds received abroad or paid by a nonresident. A system of nonresident accounts was reintroduced. The pro- visions of Decree No. 67-78 of January 27, 1967, and of the regulations issued for its implementa- tion were suspended insofar as they were con- trary to those of the new decree. The outward transfer of nonresident-owned funds and other assets was not restricted and the convertibility of foreign-held French franc bal- ances was maintained. May 30. An order was issued concerning the implementation of Decree No. 68-481. France was defined as consisting of continental France, Corsica, the Overseas Departments, and the Over- seas Territories except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas; Monaco and the states whose institute of issue is linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account were assimi- lated to France. All other countries were con- sidered foreign countries. Definitions of residents and nonresidents were also provided. Article 2 listed certain payments to foreign countries that were generally permitted when made through authorized banks or the Postal Administration; the list contained a large number of specified current payments, an item covering "all other normal current payments that by their nature can be considered similar to those listed," and a num- ber of specified capital payments. Exchange for travel purposes, however, could not be granted in excess of F 1,000 (French banknotes and foreign exchange combined) a person a trip without spe- 157 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE cial authorization from the Bank of France. Resi- dent and nonresident travelers could take out up to F 1,000 in French banknotes. Bank accounts in France in the names of nonresidents could no longer be credited with French banknotes. The import of French banknotes by resident and non- resident travelers remained free. The use of French banknotes in France by nonresidents was limited to the payment of tourist expenditures. Payments up to F 250 could be made freely with- out indication of their purpose. The approval authority for all payments not listed in Article 2 was delegated to the Bank of France (overseas to the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique); these included payments in respect of all loans to nonresidents and for purchases abroad of French and foreign securities. Residents were required to collect all amounts subject to repatriation within one month of the date on which payments fell due; for exports, the latter date was considered the due date of the commercial contract, and that date could not, in principle, be more than 180 days after arrival of the goods at their destination. Where payment was received in foreign currencies, these had to be sold on the exchange market within a month of collection. May 30. An order listed the banks that were designated as authorized banks. May 31. A circular was issued concerning pay- ments to foreign countries. Import payments could not normally be made until the commodi- ties had either been imported or shipped. Advance payments for imports could not exceed one third of the total amount of the contract. Forward exchange contracts could be concluded if there was a transfer obligation expressed in foreign currency, but such contracts could not normally exceed three months. For business travel, a spe- cial allocation (additional to the tourist alloca- tion) was introduced of up to F 3,000 a person a trip. Foreign workers in France could within three months of receipt transfer their entire net salary. Emigrants could, without special autho- rization, transfer up to the equivalent of F 5,000 in addition to their tourist allowance. Family remittances could, without special authorization, be made up to F 500 a month for each benefi- ciary. Foreign Accounts in Francs and foreign dossiers for securities. Both could be established freely. With minor exceptions, all overdrafts on Foreign Accounts in Francs and all advances to nonresi- dents required prior approval. French banknotes and those issued in Operations Account countries could not be credited to these accounts. They could be debited for any payment in favor of a resident. June 8. Authorized banks could freely export any foreign securities they held for their own account or for the account of their resident customers. French and foreign securities acquired in France after June 1, 1968 by a nonresident and paid for from a Foreign Account in Francs or by the sale of foreign currency on the exchange market could freely be placed in a foreign dossier. Nonresidents could freely export French and for- eign securities held in France for their own account or for the account of another nonresident, provided that the export was effected through an authorized bank and that the securities were part of a foreign dossier. June 20. An order indicated the data that had to be furnished in respect of payments relating to imports from and exports to foreign countries. Spot exchange purchased for making import pay- ments could not normally be retained by the importer for more than three months. June 20. The prior approval of the bank of France was required to send means of payment, titles to claims or property, and French or foreign securities to a foreign country through the mail or by parcel post. The authorized banks were exempt from this prior approval. June 20. Residents going abroad for less than 24 hours could not take out more than the equivalent of F 100 in French francs and foreign currency combined. Nonresident travelers could take out any amount in foreign means of payment and up to F 1,000 in French banknotes. Resident and nonresident travelers had to deposit with the customs any French banknotes and foreign means of payment in excess of the amounts they were permitted to export. June 20. Residents were freely permitted to make forward purchases and sales on commodity markets in Paris and abroad. May 31. A circular was issued concerning June 26. Various temporary measures were 158 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution decided upon with respect to imports and exports. ( 1) The facilities of the "economic risk" insur- ance procedure under which exporters of capital goods could cover themselves against abnormal increases in their costs were increased until the end of the year and would not be abolished on July 1 for exports to EEC countries. (2) A tem- porary allocation to exporters would be granted to exports of virtually all commodities other than agricultural and fuel products. The rate of the subsidy would be 6 per cent of the wage element incorporated in exports cleared through customs between July 1 and October 31 (estimated to be equivalent to about 2.5 per cent of the f.o.b. value of such exports), and 3 per cent for the period November 1, 1968 through January 31, 1969, when the special allocation would be abol- ished. (3) The preferential rediscount rate for export credits was reduced from 3 per cent to 2 per cent for the period until June 1, 1969. (4) Quantitative restrictions were imposed for the period from July 1 to November 1 on imports from all sources of passenger automo- biles and industrial vehicles; the quota for the former was 115 per cent of imports during the same period of 1967 and that for the latter 110 per cent. Equipment manufactured under coopera- tion agreements between French firms and firms in other EEC countries was exempt from quota restriction. (5) Imports of specified textiles from all sources became subject to quota for the period from July 1 to the end of the year. The quota would limit total imports of these textiles in 1968 to the volume of imports in 1967 plus a certain percentage that would vary according to the products. (6) Imports of iron and steel products from all sources would be limited to the average level of the first months of 1968, i.e., 390,000 tons a month from July 1 to the end of the year; this corresponded to average monthly imports in the second half of 1967 plus 7 per cent. (7) Imports from all sources of household electrical appliances and their parts would be limited from July 1 to the end of the year so that total 1968 imports would be restricted to the volume of 1967 imports plus 10 per cent. (8) A system of admin- istrative surveillance through technical visas would temporarily be applied to imports of cer- tain commodities, mainly electronic components, machine tools, dyes, industrial rubber, plywood, and certain textile products. FRANCE June 30. Decree No. 68-581 was published containing the provisions governing the temporary export subsidies. June 30. A Notice to Importers listed the commodities that f rom Ju ly 1 temporarily became subject to technical visa or quantitative restric- tion, irrespective of origin. July 1. The customs union provisions of the EEC went into fu ll effect for manufactured products. Import duties on most agricultural com- modities of EEC origin also were abolished. The first tariff reductions agreed in the Kennedy Round went into effect. July 4. The surrender requirement for receipts of foreign exchange was strengthened by reducing the period within which the foreign currency must be sold from one month after collection to one month after the due date of the payment. July 4. Forward cover was restricted to im- port payments. Under documentary credits, spot exchange could at the earliest be purchased eight days before shipment. For imports not covered by a documentary credit, foreign exchange (except that for advance payments) could not be pur- chased until the goods had entered customs and not more than eight days before the due date fixed in the contract. For all other payments and transfers to foreign countries, the foreign cur- rency could only be acquired when payment took place. July 6. Importers and exporters were advised not to undertake commercial transactions with Rhodesia other than those for medical, educa- tional, and information supplies. July 7. Decree No. 68-600 listed the iron and steel products that became subject to temporary quantitative restrictions when originating in and shipped from member countries of the European Coal and Steel Community. A Notice to Import- ers listed the iron and steel products whose impor- tation from any source temporarily became sub- ject to quantitative restriction. July 31. Additional commodities of Tunisian origin could be imported under duty-free tariff quotas. August 8. An agreement concerning trade in cotton textiles was concluded with Pakistan on the same lines as the one with India (see 159 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE April 24 ). It would be valid for the period from October 1, 1967 to September 30, 1970. August 9. The technical visa requirement was terminated for certain goods that became subject to it on July 1. August 13. The deposit requirements for French securities held in France by or on behalf of nonresidents were tightened. September 4. Decree No. 68-788 revoked Decree No. 68-481 of May 29 and all regulations adopted for its implementation. This action abolished the temporary exchange controls. September 11. Additional restrictions on trade with Rhodesia went into effect. All imports originating in or shipped from Rhodesia were prohibited, as were virtually all exports and re-exports to Rhodesia. November 1. The temporary quota restrictions on imports of passenger automobiles and indus- trial vehicles were abolished. The rate of export subsidy was reduced from 6 per cent to 3 per cent. November 16 and 21. Additional imports were liberalized in the French Overseas Depart- ments. November 20. The exchange market and the gold market were closed. They were reopened on November 25. Forward exchange transactions were resumed on December 2. November 25. Decree No. 68-1021 of Novem- ber 24 reimposed exchange control vis-a-vis for- eign countries. It repeated, with minor changes, the provisions of Decree No. 68-481 of May 29. In addition, it prescribed the deposit with an authorized bank or broker of all foreign securi- ties, foreign exchange, and titles representing claims on foreign countries, when held in France by a resident or nonresident. It also prescribed the domiciliation with authorized banks of all import and export transactions relating to foreign countries. The outward transfer of nonresident- owned funds and other assets was not restricted and the convertibility of foreign-held French f ranc balances was maintained. November 25. Decree No. 68-1022 submitted to control by the Minister of Economy and Finance all claims and liabilities in francs and 160 foreign currencies that banks and financial insti- tutions in France had vis-a-vis foreign countries. This control could be delegated to the Bank of France or the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique. November 25. An order was issued concerning the implementing of Decree No. 68-1021. Its provisions were basically the same as those of the order issued on May 30. The allocation for travel exchange would be an annual one, to be an- nounced separately. The amount of French bank- notes that resident and nonresident travelers could take out when going to foreign countries would also be announced. The surrender period for receipts subject to repatriation was set at one month from the due date of the payment. Resi- dents and nonresidents holding in France foreign securities, foreign exchange, or any titles repre- senting claims on foreign countries had to deposit them within a month. November 25. Resident and nonresident trav- elers to foreign countries could take out up to F 200 a person a trip in French banknotes. Amounts in French banknotes in excess of F 200 had to be deposited with the customs. Persons going abroad for less than 24 hours could not take out any French banknotes and coins in excess of F 50. Until December 31, residents could in addition obtain a tourist travel allocation equivalent to F 500. For business travel, residents could in the same period obtain, in addition to the tourist travel allocation, an exchange alloca- tion equivalent to up to F 200 a day, subject to a limit of F 2,000 a trip. For business travel, the Bank of France could grant supplementary allo- cations. Imports by resident and nonresident trav- elers of French banknotes or banknotes issued by an institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury were unre- stricted, as were those of all means of payment denominated in foreign currencies. Nonresident travelers had to declare upon entry all foreign banknotes they carried; they could freely export F 200 in French banknotes, the equivalent of F 500 in foreign banknotes, and any travelers checks, etc., made out abroad in their own names. Nonresident travelers could take out foreign bank- notes in excess of F 500 only if they were declared upon entry. November 25. A circular was issued concern- ing payments to foreign countries. It was essen- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tially similar to the corresponding circular of May 31. Payments up to F 250 could be made freely without indication of the purpose. The pro- visions concerning import payments were the same as those of July 4. The approval of family remittances was not delegated to the authorized banks; each application was considered on its merits by the Bank of France. Banks could make tourist exchange available only to persons in possession of travel tickets. Residents could not use credit cards abroad. Banks could make the equivalent of F 5,000 a person available for the transfer of emigrants' assets and dowries, and additional amounts could be approved by the Bank of France. November 25. A circular concerning Foreign Accounts in Francs and foreign dossiers for securi- ties went into effect. Its provisions were similar to those of the corresponding circular of May 31. They included that physical persons of French nationality, other than French officials serving abroad, would be considered nonresidents when they had been abroad for two years, and that physical persons of foreign nationality would be considered residents when they had been in France for two years. November 26. A circular was published con- taining more detailed regulations concerning the domiciliation of import transactions relating to foreign countries and payments for imports of foreign commodities. Domiciliation was required when import transactions were valued at over F 250. November 27. A circular was issued concern- ing the domiciliation of export transactions relat- ing to foreign countries. Domiciliation was required when export transactions were valued at F 1,000 or more. November 28. The prior approval of the Bank of France was required to send means of pay- ment, titles to claims or property, and French or foreign securities to a foreign country through the mail or by parcel post. The authorized banks were exempt from this prior approval. November 29. The Customs Administration was authorized to take any measures required to prevent the import and export of French bank- notes through the mail. November 29. The Bank of France informed FRANCE authorized banks that they could freely use their foreign currency holdings, within the limits of the exchange position and foreign currency position that they would be assigned at a later date, for any short-term placement operations abroad on behalf of nonresidents; for advances to residents designed to finance imports and exports between France and foreign countries or the performance of services abroad; and for advances to merchant- ing houses designed to finance international mer- chanting operations. November 29. The Bank of France informed the authorized banks of the kinds of loans in francs to nonresidents that they could grant within the global limits to which their claims in francs on foreign countries would be subject. These were ( 1) normal mail credits, i.e., not exceeding a period of 10 working days; ( 2) docu- mentary acceptance credits in favor of exporters and opened by order of the authorized banks' foreign correspondents, provided that payment for the exported commodity was received within six months from its arrival at destination; the reimbursement period of the documentary credit must not have the effect of extending beyond 180 days the period of the credit granted to the for- eign buyer; (3) franc credits granted within the framework of financial protocols signed by the French Government and a foreign government or granted within the framework of interbank agree- ments that have been formally approved by the Treasury; (4) f ranc credits granted by French banks to foreign purchasers of French capital goods when such credits have been guaranteed by the Compagnie Frangaise d'Assurance pour le Commerce Exterieur (COFACE); and (5) loans of francs to foreign correspondents in the form of swaps against foreign currencies, provided that the transaction was intended to finance forward sales of foreign currency by the bank's customers or by other foreign correspondents. (With effect from December 6, the Bank of France prohibited such operations and informed the banks that they must abstain from all transactions that would involve their selling francs forward .) The banks were prohibited from making, extending, or renewing f ranc loans for the follow- ing purposes: ( 1) loans to foreign banking corre- spondents to finance transactions between foreign countries; ( 2) loans to other nonresident custom- ers for operations not linked to French exports; 161 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE and (3) loans to foreign correspondents or customers in the form of swaps against foreign currencies other than those covered by (5) in the preceding paragraph. Franc credits to nonresidents that were neither generally permitted nor prohibited required prior approval by the Bank of France. December 1. The value-added tax rates reim- bursed on exports and levied on imports were raised by an average of 18 per cent. The basic rate of the tax was raised from 16% per cent to 19 per cent, the reduced rate from 6 per cent to 7 per cent, the highest rate from 20 per cent to 25 per cent, and the intermediate rate from 13 per cent to 15 per cent. December 3. The exchange position of each bank, i.e., any excess of its assets or claims in foreign exchange over its liabilities in foreign exchange, could not exceed that at the close of business on September 3. Any excess had to be liquidated by December 31. The total amount of each bank's claims in francs on nonresidents could not exceed that of November 24 and had to be reduced by January 31, 1969 to that of September 3; half this reduction had to be accom- plished by December 31. December 4. Checks in francs that could be used for payments between France and foreign countries had to be marked "convertible franc." December 4. Forward cover transactions con- cluded prior to November 25 and not yet canceled or unwound had to be domiciled with an author- ized bank within eight days. Those not related to imports henceforth eligible for forward cover had to be canceled within eight days. The others could, without a prior visa, be maintained for at most one month. Henceforth, foreign exchange could be bought forward only for imports of a small number of specified foodstuffs, raw materials, and fuels. Such forward cover required the prior approval of the Customs Administration. Cover could be taken only in the currency of the con- tract and for a period of one month at most; renewal was not allowed. December 5. For purposes of imports and exports of gold, a Decision of the Customs Administration defined foreign countries as all countries other than continental France, Corsica, the Overseas Departments, the Overseas Terri- 162 tories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), and Monaco. The following im- ports and exports of gold were exempt from prior authorization by the Bank of France: (1) gold addressed to or shipped by the Bank of France; (2) manufactured articles containing only a minor quantity of gold, such as gold-filled and gold-plated articles; and (3) gold objects (other than coins and bars, but including both personal and other jewelry) whose combined weight does not exceed 500 grams. December 6. A circular was issued concerning payments and receipts related to insurance and reinsurance between France and foreign coun- tries. December 13. A circular on the subject of transactions in securities was issued. No direct transactions between residents were permitted in French or foreign securities held abroad by residents. The exportation for the account of residents of French securities held in France also was prohibited. French securities held abroad by residents prior to November 25, 1968, under the control of an authorized bank, could only be dealt with in one of the following ways: (1) they could be kept abroad, under the control of an authorized bank; (2) they could be sold abroad, in which case the sales proceeds must either be sold on the French exchange market within a month of receipt, or be used by the seller himself, within a month of receipt, to pur- chase French or foreign securities abroad; and (3) they could be imported through the inter- mediary of an authorized bank. Purchases of French securities abroad by residents could not be financed with foreign currency acquired on the French exchange market; they could only be made, through the intermediary of an authorized bank, with the foreign exchange proceeds from the sale abroad of French securities already held abroad or of foreign securities. Residents were not allowed to purchase foreign currency on the French exchange market in order either to acquire foreign securities by purchase or subscription or to acquire rights to foreign securi- ties. All these transactions must be financed, through the intermediary of an authorized dealer, with foreign exchange resulting from the sale abroad, by the same person, of French securities held abroad or of foreign securities. Securities ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution acquired in this manner must be placed under the control of an authorized bank. The foreign exchange resulting from amortization of foreign securities would be available for the same pur- poses as that resulting f rom the sale abroad of French or foreign securities. Foreign securities held in France were required to be deposited with a bank or broker within a mon th from November 25, 1968. (The deadline for deposit was on December 20 changed to January 15, 1969.) They could then be sold on a French stock exchange or abroad; in the latter case the sales proceeds must either be sold on the French exchange market within a month of receipt or used by the seller himself for the pur- chase abroad of French or foreign securities, again w i th in a month of receipt. Foreign securi- ties held abroad by residents (whether held prior to November 25, 1968 under the control of an authorized bank or acquired abroad subsequently in conformity with the new regulation) could be ( 1) kept abroad under the control of an author- ized bank; (2) imported through an authorized intermediary for the account of the resident con- cerned; or (3) sold abroad. If the securities were sold abroad, the proceeds must either be sold on the French exchange market within a month of receipt or used by the seller himself, also within a month of receipt, to purchase French or foreign securities abroad. There were special provisions concerning French and foreign securities held in France by nonresidents. French securities held in a foreign dossier could be sold spot or forward on the French market or be used there for "conditional transactions"; the proceeds could be credited to a foreign account in the name of the seller. How- ever, the sale in France of foreign securities on behalf of a nonresident was prohibited. Foreign securities held in France by nonresidents must be deposited with an authorized bank if they did not meet the conditions for inclusion in a foreign dossier; un t il fu r ther notice, these could not be traded. French or foreign securities held in a foreign dossier could freely be put at the owner's disposal abroad or transferred to a resident by v i r tue of transactions that took place prior to November 25, 1968 or by v ir tue of inheritance. FRANCE nonboarding students was delegated to the author- ized banks up to the following monthly amoun ts for each student: for bachelors, $300 in the United States and the equivalent of F 1,000 in other countries; for childless couples, $500 in the United States and the equivalent of F 2,000 else- where; and for couples with children, for each child living with them, $100 in the United States and the equivalent of F 500 elsewhere. December 17. Merchanting houses could freely purchase foreign exchange in France, spot or forward, subject to supervision of the consum- mation of the transactions. For this purpose, inter- national merchanting was defined as consisting only of transactions involving the purchase abroad of a specified parcel of goods and the sale abroad of the same parcel or of an equivalent parcel acquired previously under the same condi- tions; transactions, therefore, could not involve direct importation into France or into an Opera- tions Account country. December 20. The deposit obligation in respect of foreign securities held in France by residents or nonresidents was limited to those issued by a public or private juridical person in, or denomi- nated in the currency of, one of the following countries: Argentina, Australia (including trust terr i tory), Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Denmark (includ- ing the Faroe Islands and Green land), the Fed- eral Republic of Germany, Israel, Italy, Japan, Lebanon, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand (including man- date te r r i to ry ), Norway, Panama, Portugal (in- cluding overseas prov inces), Rhodesia, South Afr ica, South-West Africa, Spain (including Afri- can provinces), Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, the United Kingdom (including colonies and protector- a tes ), the United States (including overseas pos- sessions), Uruguay, and Zambia. Furthermore, securities issued in these countries were exempt from the deposit requirement if they were denomi- nated in French francs and their servicing took place in France only. December 26. Decree No. 68-1169 amended Decree No. 68-581 of June 29. The statistical basis for the calculation of the temporary alloca- tion to exporters was changed. December 16. The approval authority for trans- fers in respect of living expenses on behalf of December 28. Most of the commodities that were on June 30 subjected to a temporary require- 163 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE ment of a technical visa became exempt from this requirement. NOTE. —The following changes took place early in 1969: January 1. The exchange allocations for for- eign tourist and business travel during 1969 went into force. The tourist allocation was the equiva- lent of F 1,000 a person, and the basic allowance for business travel was the equivalent of F 200 a day for travel to specified European and Mediter- ranean countries and F 300 a day for all other foreign countries. All travel exchange had to be recorded in a foreign exchange booklet. Residents were no longer permitted to make any number of remittances up to F 250 to foreign countries freely and without indicating the purpose; this facility was limited to F 250 a person a year and the amounts so transferred were deducted from the tourist travel allowance. January L Resident border workers were required to repatriate and surrender 60 per cent of their earnings; if their monthly remuneration exceeded F 2,000, the amount exempt from repatriation was limited to F 800 a month. January 1. The preferential rediscount rate for export credits was raised from 2 per cent to 3 per cent. January 1. The temporary import restrictions notified by Notices to Importers of June 30 and July 7, 1968, as amended by subsequent Notices, were revoked. Those imposed by Decree No. 68-600 of July 7, 1968, relating to iron and steel products, also were revoked. 164 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON * Exchange System No par value for the currency of Gabon has been established with the Fund. The unit of cur- rency is the CFA Franc, which is officially main- tained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f ranc, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.2 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Gabonese agency of the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique Equatorial et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and commercial banks in Gabon take place at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market rate for the cur- rency concerned, and include a commission. Gabon's exchange control measures do not apply to ( 1) France and its Overseas Depart- ments and Territories (except the French Terri- tory of the A f a rs and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) the other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, Congo (B razzav i l le ), Dahomey, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, Mali, Mauri- tania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made free ly. All other countries, except Gabon itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control The Office of Foreign Financial Relations in the M in is t ry of Finance and the Budget super- vises borrow ing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or sale of foreign securities in Gabon, and inward and ou twa rd direct inves tmen t. Exchange control is adm in is tered by the Minister of Finance and the Budget, who has delegated some of his approval au thor i ty to the BCEAEC and to the authorized banks. All payments and 1 In view of certain changes that took place on Feb- r u a ry 17, 1969 (see note at the end of this s u r v e y ), this su rvey presents the position on that date. 2 The CFA f r a nc c i rcu la t ing in Gabon is issued by the Banque Cen t ra le des Etats de 1'Afrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, and Congo (B r a z z av i l l e ). receipts between Gabon and foreign countries that are made through banks are registered, for statistical purposes only, by the BCEAEC, through the in termed iary of the institution execut- ing the t rans fe r; the BCEAEC also addresses inquiries to the principal firms and agencies con- cerning inward and ou tward payments made in other manners, par t icu lar ly by the offse t t ing of claims and debts. All exchange transactions relat- ing to foreign countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries, i.e., the Postal Admin- istration and authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the Ministry of National Economy, Trade, and Mines. Prescription of Currency Gabon is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAEC main- tains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French f rancs, or the currency of any other insti- tute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through corre- spondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French f rancs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations per ta in ing to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other ins t i tu te of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports from countries in the French Franc Area and from member countries of the EEC other than France may be made freely. All imports f rom non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area are sub ject to licensing in accordance with an annual import program. This program and the 165 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON amount of foreign exchange required to imple- ment it are determined by a joint French-Gabonese Committee. A special licensing procedure is appli- cable to the import of petroleum products. Exporters may obtain licenses for certain imports outside the import program (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low). Global quotas are established for imports f rom all non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area. The global quotas may be used to import goods originating in any of these countries. A few commodities in the program are subject to ceilings for all non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Import licenses entitle importers to pur- chase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the autho- rized bank. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted free ly; those to other countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Pay- ments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted free ly when the basic transaction has been approved. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allo- cation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 100,000 a person a year (CFAF 50,000 for children under t e n ); any foreign exchange remaining a f ter return to Gabon must be surrendered. For business travel to foreign countries, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a max imum of CFAF 300,000 a tr ip; the Min- ister of Finance and the Budget may issue excep- tional allocations in excess of CFAF 300,000. Tourist and business travel allocations may not be combined. Travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 10,000 166 in BCEAEC banknotes; the amount taken out is deducted from the travel allocation. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BCEAEC banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on en try. Gabonese nationals traveling abroad must lodge a deposit (repatriation guar- antee) with the Treasury; exempt are persons traveling on official business, government- sponsored students, and persons taking up sal- aried professional employment abroad. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries in the French Franc Area are free of license. Exports to other countries of rice, corn, tobacco, cotton, diamonds, and mining products (except sodium carbonate, manganese, and crude petroleum) require licenses. Gold and u ran ium may be exported only to France. Export- ers may obtain import licenses for additional quantities of commodities included in the import program and essential to their export activities, up to an amount corresponding to 10 per cent of the total value of their exports during the preceding year. Export transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account coun- try must be surrendered. Export proceeds nor- mally must be received w i th in 180 days a f ter the arrival of the commodities at their destination. The proceeds must be collected, and surrendered if received in a foreign currency, within one month of the due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected, and if received in foreign cur- rency surrendered, within a month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAEC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Opera- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tions Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Gabon and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All foreign securities, for- eign currency, and titles embodying claims on for- eign countries or nonresidents that are held in Gabon by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in Gabon. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, o f fe r ing for sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Gabon; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to pay- ments or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Gabon, the control measures do not apply to France and its Overseas Departments and Terri- tories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Direct investments abroad 3 must be declared to the Ministry of Finance and the Budget, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the fu ll or partial liquidation of such investments also requires declaration to the Ministry unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a partici- pation that had previously been approved as con- s t i tu t ing the mak ing of a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Gabon 4 must be declared to the Minister, unless they' take the 3 Inc lud ing those made through the in termed iary of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly con- trolled by persons in Gabon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Gabon. 4 In c lud ing those made by companies in Gabon that are d irec t ly or ind irec t ly under fore ign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of foreign companies. GABON form of a capital increase resulting from reinvest- ment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declara- tion, during which he may request the postpone- ment of the projects submitted to him. The fu ll or partial liquidation of direct investments in Gabon must also be declared to the Minister, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a partici- pation that had previously been approved as con- stituting the mak ing of a direct investment in Gabon. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Gabonese investments abroad or foreign investments in Gabon, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days following each operation. Direct invest- ments are defined as investments implying con- trol of a company or enterprise. Mere participa- tion is not considered as direct investment, pro- vided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in Gabon requires prior authori- zation by the Minister of Finance and the Budget. Exempt f rom authorization, however, are opera- tions in connection with ( 1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Gabonese Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, adver- tising, or o f fe r ing for sale in Gabon has previ- ously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of juridi- cal persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and the Budget. The following are, how- ever, exempt from this authorization: ( 1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions cither between Gabon and countries abroad or between foreign coun- tries, in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount ou ts tand ing of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to 167 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON under ( 4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations w i th in 20 days of the operation, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 5 million or less. Lending abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of juridi- cal persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and the Budget. The following are, how- ever, exempt f rom this authorization: ( 1) loans granted by registered banks; (2) other loans, when the total amount ou ts tand ing of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The mak ing of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations w i th in 20 days of the operation, except when the total ou ts tand ing amount of all loans granted abroad by the lender does not exceed CFAF 5 million. Under the Investment Code of December 4, 1961, as amended on March 23, 1967, any enter- prise established in Gabon, whe ther domestic or foreign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemption from direct taxes on specified income. The Code provides for five categories of treat- ment. Three of these apply to enterprises estab- lished in Gabon and whose activity is limited to the national territory of Gabon (categories I A, IB, and II, according to the economic importance of the enterprise). The other types of trea tment apply to enterprises established in Gabon whose market includes the territory of two or more states of the Central Afr ican Customs and Economic Union —UDEAC —(categories III and IV, depend- ing on the importance of the enterprise). Preferen- tial treatments IA and IB are granted for a period of up to 10 years. Preferential treatment II is reserved for enterprises of prime importance to the country's economic development and involv- ing exceptionally high investments; it provides for stabilization of their fiscal charges for up to 25 years. Preferential treatment III includes special import privileges and treatment IV includes, in 168 addition to the privileges mentioned above, the advantage of a found ing agreement (convention cT etablissement). Requests for approval for preferential treat- ment must be submitted to the Minister of National Economy, Trade, and Mines, who, af ter exam in ing the documents, transmits them to the Investment Commission. A f ter an opinion has been given by that Commission, the project is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Preferen- tial treatments IA, IB, and II are granted by decree issued by the Council of Ministers. Prefer- ential treatments III and IV are granted by a certifi- cation of the UDEAC upon the recommendation of the Council of Ministers. In addition to fiscal privileges, eligible com- panies may receive protection against foreign competition and may be given priority in the allo- cation of imports, of public credit, and of govern- ment contracts. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Gabon. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and the Budget, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone tary authorities and (2) imports and exports of manu fac tu red articles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated ar t ic les). Unworked gold may be exported only to France. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1968 February 28. Decree No. 125/PR amended Decree No. 323/PR of June 30, 1967. June 1. With minor exceptions, imports origi- na t ing in and shipped from EEC countries other than France were freed from quan t i ta t ive restric- tions. June 5. Ordinance No. 30/PR, by suspending any contrary provisions of Ordinance No. 28/67 of June 29, 1967 and its implementing regula- tions, re-established temporary exchange controls in relations w i th foreign countries. It prohibited, except w i th the prior approval of the Minister ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of Finance and the Budget, all payments and transfers by residents to foreign countries, or, within Gabon, in favor of a nonresident; all imports and exports of gold, means of payment, and securities; and all transactions and transfers leading to the constitution of assets abroad by a resident, or to the holding of foreign means of payment in Gabon by a resident. All claims on foreign countries or nonresidents resulting from exports, earnings, or income had to be collected and, where appropriate, surrendered. All settle- ments with foreign countries or nonresidents had to take place through authorized intermediaries. June 5. Decree No. 280/PR defined foreign countries as all countries other than France (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. The decree also contained definitions of "residents" and "nonresidents," listed the types of payment that could be made freely, through an authorized intermediary, to foreign countries, and introduced an exchange allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 100,000 a person a trip for travel to foreign countries. The export by trav- elers to foreign countries of BCEAEC banknotes was limited to CFAF 50,000 a person a trip, and the amount of such banknotes taken out was deducted from the travel allocation. Payments up to CFAF 25,000 could be made freely for any purpose. All payments between Gabon and for- eign countries had to be made through the Postal Adm in is tra t ion or authorized banks. All amounts subject to repatriation had to be collected within one month of the due date; the due date for export receipts had in principle to be within 180 days a f ter the arrival of the goods at their destination. If payment was received in foreign currency, this had to be surrendered to an autho- rized intermediary within one month af ter collec- tion. Nonresident accounts in Gabon could not be credited with CFA banknotes or French bank- notes. June 7. Order No. 568/MAEDP-MERH- DAE established new exchange control regula- tions for exports. July 5. The suspension of the export tax on coffee was extended indefinitely. July 27. Article 9 of Decree No. 280/PR was amended by Decree No. 406/PR. Both the col- lection of foreign claims and the surrender of any GABON foreign currency so received had to take place within a month of the due date. The repatriation and surrender requirements were extended to any amounts not yet collected and any foreign cur- rency not yet surrendered on the date on which the decree entered into force. September 30. Ordinance No. 58/68 revoked Ordinance No. 30/PR and all implementing regulations. Ordinance No. 28/67 and Decree No. 323/PR (as modified by Decree No. 125/PR) were put into force again. This action abolished the temporary exchange controls of June 5. November 26. Law No. 25/68 reinstated Ordinance No. 30/PR and the regulations issued for its implementation. November 26. Order No. 092/PR appointed three commercial banks as authorized intermedi- aries. NOTE. —The following changes took place early in 1969: February 17. Decree No. 149/PR was issued to implement Ordinance No. 30/PR. It contained definitions of "foreign countries," "residents," and "nonresidents," listed the types of payments that could be made free ly, through an authorized intermediary or the Postal Administration, to for- eign countries, and introduced new exchange allocations for travel to foreign countries. The export by travelers to foreign countries of BCEAEC banknotes was limited to CFAF 10,000 a person a trip, and the amount of such bank- notes taken out was deducted from the travel allo- cation. Payments of less than CFAF 12,500 could be made free ly for any purpose. All payments between Gabon and foreign countries had to be made through the Postal Administration or autho- rized banks. All amounts subject to repatriation had to be collected, and if received in foreign currency surrendered to an authorized bank, within one month of the due date; the due date for export receipts had in principle to be within 180 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination. Nonresident accounts in Gabon could not be credited with CFA banknotes or French banknotes. The approval authority for payments that could not be made freely was delegated to the BCEAEC. Residents and nonresidents hold- 169 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON ing in Gabon foreign securities, foreign currency, or any title representing a claim on foreign coun- tries had to deposit these with an authorized bank w i th in 15 days. Decree No. 280/PR was revoked. The travel allocations were as follows: For tourist travel to foreign countries, residents could obtain foreign currency up to the equivalent of CFAF 100,000 a person a year (CFAF 50,000 for children under t e n ). For business travel, they could obtain a special allocation up to the equiva- lent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a maxi- mum of CFAF 300,000 a trip; exceptional allo- cations in excess of CFAF 300,000, however, could be authorized by the Minister of Finance and the Budget. Tourist and business travel allo- cations could not be combined. February 17. Decree No. 150/PR subjected to control by the Minister of Finance and the Budget the claims and liabilities in francs and for- eign currencies of banks and financial institutions established in Gabon. This control could be dele- gated to the BCEAEC. 170 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Gambian Pound or <£G 1 = US$2.40. The currency-issuing authority is the Gambian Cur- rency Board; subject to m in imum transactions, the Board is statutorily required to issue currency against sterling at a rate of not more than <£ stg. 100 15s. Od. per <£G 100 and to redeem currency against sterling at a rate of not less than <£ stg. 99 5s. Od. per £G 100. There is only one commercial bank and this deals with customers for spot transactions in sterling at the Currency Board's rates and in other currencies at rates determined by the prevailing market rate for the currency concerned in London against sterling. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is made by the Minis- try of Finance. The commercial bank may autho- rize sales of currencies of countries outside the Sterling Area for permitted imports from outside the Area and, up to the amount of the basic travel allowance, for travel outside the Sterling Area. All other sales of non-Sterling Area currencies are subject to the authorization of the Ministry of Finance, which is also responsible for the issue of import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency The Gambia is a member of the Sterling Area, and settlements with other Sterling Area countries may be made and received freely in sterling or in any other Sterling Area currency. Settlements with countries outside the Sterling Area may be made and received in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Nonresident Accounts While there is legal provision for the commer- cial bank in The Gambia to ma in ta in desig- nated nonresident accounts (including Blocked Accounts) for residents of countries outside the Sterling Area, in fact all accounts are maintained as resident accounts irrespective of the residential status of the account holder. Consequently, non- resident account holders may freely use their accounts for settlements within The Gambia and the Sterling Area, but settlements outside the Area are subject to the same controls as apply to resi- dents of The Gambia; there are no restrictions on credits to such accounts. Imports and Import Payments The import of certain specified goods is pro- hibited from all sources, predominantly on social, health, and moral grounds. The import from any country of rice and wheat flour is subject to spe- cific licensing in order to ensure the adequacy of such imports and their fa ir domestic pricing; the import of rice is in the hands of a consortium of import trading companies under the control of the Government and acting on its behalf. All other imports are freely permitted under an Open Gen- eral License if imported from the following coun- tries, but are subject to specific licensing if imported from other countries: ( 1) all countries within the Sterling Area; (2) Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, and the United States, together with the overseas territories of these countries; and ( 3) Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, Mali, Morocco, Paraguay, Peru, Senegal, the Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, the United Arab Republic, Uruguay, Venezuela, and Yugoslavia. Imports from Sterling Area countries may be paid for freely in Gambian pounds or in any cur- rency of the Sterling Area. Settlement for imports from outside the Sterling Area requires exchange control authorization, which is freely given with- out evidence of importation for any commodity that is covered by a valid specific import license or that does not require a specific license; pay- ment may be effected in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Sterling Area countries may be made freely. The commercial bank may authorize payments for invisibles in currencies of countries outside the Sterling Area for transactions related to external trade when such payments are properly due outside the Area. It may also authorize a basic exchange allowance of the equivalent of 171 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA <£G 50 a person a calendar year for residents for travel outside the Sterling Area; of this amount, <£G 25 may be taken in currency notes of coun- tries outside the Sterling Area. The basic allow- ance may be accumulated up to three years. Application for permission to effect other pay- ments for invisibles in currencies of countries outside the Sterling Area are dealt with adminis- tratively but liberally by the Ministry of Finance. Irrespective of destination, each traveler leaving The Gambia may take out <£G 15 in Gambian currency notes. Visitors to The Gambia may also take out with them on departure any other cur- rency notes declared by them when entering the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Because of needs for local consumption, the export to any destination of charcoal, firewood, and crustaceans is subject to specific licensing, as is the export of all goods to Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hun- gary, Poland, Rumania, the U.S.S.R., and Yugo- slavia. The export of all other goods to any other destination is freely permitted under Open Gen- eral License. Payment for exports to countries outside the Sterling Area must be received within six months from the date of export in a non- Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds or in a Sterling Area currency from the account of a nonresident of the Sterling Area, i.e., from an External Account held anywhere in the Sterling Area or from an account held in The Gambia. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in currencies of coun- tries outside the Sterling Area must be offered for sale to the commercial bank. There is no restric- tion on the import of Gambian or other currency notes. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not controlled. Outward transfers may be effected freely to coun- tries within the Sterling Area but are subject to control to countries outside the Area. At the time of making investments in The Gambia, nonresi- dent investors may apply for an undertaking as to the authorization of applications for the subse- quent remittance of profits and repatriation of capital. All other applications to transfer capital outside the Sterling Area are dealt with adminis- tratively by the Ministry of Finance. Loans and advances by the commercial bank to nonresidents are subject to the authorization of the Ministry of Finance; such authorization is normally given freely for the purpose of providing working cap- ital to companies registered outside The Gambia for their operations in The Gambia. Gold The import of gold coins minted in the United Kingdom requires licensing by the Ministry of Finance; otherwise, gold coins and bullion may be imported freely. All internal dealings in gold and the export of gold require the permission of the Ministry of Finance. Changes during 1968 July 8. An initial par value for the Gambian Pound of £G 0.416667 = US$1 (US$2.40 = <£G 1) was agreed with the International Mone- tary Fund. 172 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY1 Exchange System The par value is 0.222168 gram of fine gold per Deutsche Mark or DM 4.00• = US$1. The official limits established by the Deutsche Bundes- bank for its dealings with banks are DM 3.97 buying, and DM 4.03 selling, per US$1. For banks' transactions with their customers, these rates are considered as middle rates which can be exceeded by buying or selling margins. The rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these margins. Market rates for certain other currencies vary between limits which result from combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Ge rmany2 and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. All other currencies are also admitted to market quotations in Germany. Premiums and discounts on forward exchange transactions are left to the interplay of ma rket forces. There are no restrictions on foreign exchange dealings by residents or nonresidents. With minor exceptions, payments and transfers to Rhodesia and trade and capital transactions involving Rhodesia are subject to licensing and are restricted. Otherwise, there are no restrictions on payments and no prescription of currency requirements. Residents are not required to repa- triate or surrender their foreign exchange earnings or holdings, which may be held in Germany or abroad at the choice of the holder. Accounts in deutsche mark or in any foreign currency may be held in Germany by any nonresident. Balances on nonresident accounts may be transferred freely to any type of resident or nonresident account and used for any payment in Germany or abroad, including the purchase of any foreign currency or gold, minted or in bars; these accounts may be credited freely with any payment. However, credit balances on nonresident accounts, except savings accounts of individual persons, may carry interest only if a special license has been granted. Such licenses may be obtained by all credit institutions for the payment of interest on customers' bal- 1 In view of certain changes that took place early in 1969 (see note at the end of this su rvey ), this survey presents the position on February 27, 1969. 2 The term "Germany" is used in this survey as an abbreviation for the Federal Republic of Germany, inc lud ing Berlin (We s t ). ances held as cover for letters of credit; other- wise, licenses are given in exceptional cases only. Germany accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control The administration of control in Germany in respect of imports and exports of goods and services is operated by the Federal Ministry of Economics, the Federal Ministry of Transporta- tion, the Federal Office for Trade and Industry (Bundesamt fur gewerbliche Wirtschaft), the Federal Office for Food and Forestry (Bundesamt fur Erndhrung und Forstwirtschaft), Import and Storage Agencies (Einfuhr- und Vorratsstellen), and the Land Ministries of Economics. The Deutsche Bundesbank is primarily the authority in charge of exchange control for certain capital transactions. All banks in Germany are permitted to carry out foreign exchange transactions. Imports and Import Payments* Imports of virtually all commodities either originating in or purchased in Rhodesia are sus- pended. With this exception, quantitative restric- tions are not applied to imports of most com- modities purchased from and originating in countries other than those included in country list C of the Foreign Trade Regulation;4 out of a total of some 8,100 items, about 7,400 may be imported freely from those other countries (i.e., 3 Late in March 1969, it was announced that additional import oppor tun i t ies were to be created by quota increases for industrial goods and volume increases under agreements on vo lun tary restraint of exports to Germany. These add i t ional import opportunities were estimated to be equ iva lent to DM 580 million for 1969. The quota increases were as follows. ( 1) Quotas for some Eastern European countries had been raised by DM 190 m i l l ion. (2) Virtually all quantitative import ceilings vis-a-vis Eastern European countries (with the ma in exceptions of iron, steel, coal, and heavy fuel oil) would be fu r ther increased by one third of either the va lue or the quantity, as appropriate, the total value of these increases being estimated at DM 340 million for 1969. ( 3) Most quotas still ma in ta ined vis-a-vis Western countries would also be raised, the increase in this case amoun t ing to one th i rd of the increase of 1969 quotas over 1968 quotas that had been previously decided upon. 4 The countries in list C are the CMEA countries, ma in land China, Cuba, North Korea, and North Viet- N am. 173 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY those in country lists A and B of the Foreign Trade Law) .5 In addition, some 235 items are liberalized when originating in European OECD countries and their associated or dependent territories. Certain solid fuels are liberalized only when purchased and imported from other member countries of the European Coal and Steel Com- mun i ty; imports of coal from other sources are limited to a global quota. Imports from all sources of about 190 tariff items (sugar, cereals, cattle, certain meat and meat products, milk, and edible fa t s) are controlled by virtue of the Ger- man Marketing Laws; since these items are also covered by EEC regulations, licenses are issued automatically and without limit for the import of all of them from EEC countries and for the import of some of them from any source. Imports from non-EEC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC (including cereals, rice, pork, eggs, and poultry mea t) are subject to variable import levies which have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EEC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EEC countries of beef, veal, dairy products, olive oil, most other oils and fats, sugar, and specified f ru i ts and vegetables. De facto liberalization is extended to many industrial and certain agricultural commodities (about 4,600 tariff items) when originating in and purchased in Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hun- gary, Poland, or Ruman ia. Under these arrange- ments, import licenses are issued automatically upon application, provided that domestic produc- tion and prices are not affected adversely. Imports free of quantitative restriction are not subject to licensing, and no prior control is exer- cised over such imports; however, an import declaration stamped by the Deutsche Bundes- bank, which serves as documentation for customs control and for statistical purposes, is required. For imports still subject to quantitative restric- tion (w i th certain exceptions, such as books, maps, etc., and small'parcels through the post), an individual import license is required. Appli- cations are normally invited by tender (Aus- 5 Countries in list A are granted OECD liberalization, and countries in list B have the benefit of GATT liberalization. 174 schreibung) published in the Official Gazette. Import licenses may be allocated to importers either on a first-come, first-served basis, or account may be taken of conditions of price, delivery, quality, etc., or of the total value of applications in relation to the quotas established for specified commodities. For manufactured goods, the period of validity of the license is usuaHy six months, but it may be extended in certain cases (e.g., heavy machin- e ry) to a period necessary for the production of the goods. For agricultural products the usual period is also six months; however, for seasonal imports, it may be shorter. No fees are charged for licenses to import manufac tured goods. Payments for imports are free, even if the underlying import transaction is still restricted. Commodity fu tu res may be dealt in freely. Transit trade transactions may, in principle, be carried out freely; but when they involve speci- fied countries, they are subject to certain con- ditions. Payments for Invisibles Virtually all payments to Rhodesia require prior approval and are restricted. Otherwise, all payments for invisibles may be made freely with- out individual license. German and foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be exported free ly. The following transactions —but not the related payments —between residents and nonresidents are subject to restriction: the chartering of for- eign ships f rom residents of specified countries; the use of foreign boats in certain inland water- ways traff ic; transactions with specified countries (which do not grant reciprocal treatment) for hull and marine liability insurance and aviation insurance, except passenger accident insurance; the production of motion pictures in association with nonresidents; and certain contracts with non- residents pertaining to motion-picture films.6 6 Restrictions are applied only to the acquisition from nonresidents of rights to films that are to be shown in the original German-speaking version or in a German- synchronized version, the acquisition of rights to films of any kind originating in CMEA countries, and the acceptance of film services from CMEA countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and Export Proceeds Virtually all exports and transit sales to Rho- desia are prohibited. With few exceptions, other export transactions may be carried out freely. For all goods, only an export notification, for statis- tical purposes, is required. Certain exports — mostly strategic goods and agricultural commodi- ties subject to EEC regulations —are subject to individual licensing. The customs authorities exercise control over export declarations and also check to see whether a license is required. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports do not have to be declared or surrendered, and they may be used for all payments. Claims exceeding DM 10,000 that have been overdue for more than three months must be reported, for statistical purposes. Proceeds from Invisibles With few exceptions, services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. However, licenses are required for transactions related to specific sea services, and for technical assistance through the delivery to residents of list C coun- tries (see footnote 4) of constructional drawings, materials, and instructions for manufac ture, inso- far as such assistance is for the production of goods whose export requires a license. There are no restrictions on the receipt of pay- ments for services rendered to nonresidents. How- ever, receipts exceeding DM 500 on account of such services have to be reported. German and foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be imported freely. Capital All payments and transfers to Rhodesia require prior approval, and certain capital transactions involving Rhodesia are restricted. Otherwise, resi- dents and nonresidents may import or export capital freely without a license. However, domes- tic money market paper (treasury bills, etc.) and domestic fixed-interest-bearing securities—if in the latter case the contracts contain an obligation to reacquire the securities later at a definitely fixed price —may not be sold to nonresidents without an individual license. Foreign bond issues on the German capital market are unrestricted and do not require official approval. Securities of GERMANY all types may be imported or exported freely. There are no limitations on the disposal of lega- cies located in Germany and inherited by nonresi- dents, or on legacies located abroad and inherited by residents. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home and abroad and may negotiate gold in any form with residents or nonresidents at home and abroad. There is a free gold market in Frank- fu r t. Imports require a license from the Federal Office for Trade and Industry when the gold is purchased in or originates in Rhodesia or a coun- try on country list C of the Foreign Trade Regu- lation (see footnote 4 ). With this exception, imports and exports by residents and nonresidents of gold in any form are unrestricted and free of license; a customs declaration, however, is required. Imports of unworked gold and gold alloys are free of customs d u ty but are subject to value-added tax at a rate of 7 per cent. Imports of monetary gold by the Bundesbank and imports of gold coins that are legal tender, including sovereigns, are exempt from this tax and from customs du ty. Domestic purchases of gold (alloys and coins that are not legal tender) are subject to value-added tax at a rate of 11 per cent. Commercial imports and exports of articles con- taining gold are subject to the regular foreign trade regulations and in most cases are liberalized. Changes during 1968 During the year, the Bundesbank changed on many occasions the conditions on which it made swap facilities in U.S. dollars available to autho- rized banks. Most of these changes involved an adjustment of the discount on forward dollars and/or a modification of the m in imum period of swap contracts. Also, German banks were from time to time enabled to use the Bundesbank's forward cover facilities both to secure existing U.S. dollar claims of their domestic and foreign customers and to take cover in U.S. dollars for their own account. January 1. A value-added tax, applicable both to imports and domestic transactions, went into effect. The general rate was 10 per cent. A reduced rate of 5 per cent applied chiefly to some professional services and most food products. 175 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY Exporters would receive a full refund of the tax on goods exported other than commodities sub- ject to EEC price regulations. The system of import equalization taxes and tax rebates on exports was terminated. January 1. The 4 per cent sales tax on domes- tic sales of gold other than jewelry was abolished and domestic sales and imports of such gold, except imports of monetary gold by the Bundes- bank, became subject to the value-added tax at a rate of 10 per cent (11 per cent after June 30 and 7 per cent with effect from November 30). The new tax was not applicable to coins that are legal tender. A separate ruling indicated those considered legal tender; these included sovereigns. April 3. Cuba was deleted from country list B of the Foreign Trade Law. May 20. It was announced that the Minister of-Economic A f fa i rs would seek to ensure that a larger share of the foreign deutsche mark bonds issued in Germany would be placed in Germany itself. The institutions participating in the inter- national issue business would henceforth keep the Ministry and the Bundesbank informed of issuing schedules. June 18. An agreement was signed with India concerning imports of specified Indian cotton tex- tiles. Specified items would remain free from quantitative restrictions. The agreement entered into force on the same date, retroactive to Janu- ary 1, 1968, and would be valid until the end of 1970. June 18. A free gold market was opened in Frankfur t. There would be one fixing a day. The fixing price was subject to 10 per cent value- added tax. July 1. The general rate of the value-added tax was increased from 10 to 11 per cent and the special rate from 5 to 5*/2 per cent. July 1. The customs union provisions of the EEC went into fu ll effect for manufactured prod- ucts. Import dutids on most agricultural com- modities of EEC origin also were abolished. August 2. An agreement concerning trade in cotton textiles was concluded with Pakistan on the same lines as the one with India (see June 18). It would be valid for the period from January 1, 1968 to the end of 1970. 176 October 9. A new trade protocol was signed with Yugoslavia concerning trade in 1969; the protocol provided for increased German import quotas for textiles and wines but not for the application of OECD liberalization to commodi- ties of Yugoslav origin. November 4. The Central Capital Market Committee announced that it would in fu ture take proposed foreign deutsche mark issues in Germany into consideration in its deliberations on the domestic capital market. November 7. All exports to Rhodesia, with the exception of Pharmaceuticals, bandaging material, and certain literature and educational material and equipment, were prohibited. November 9. Additional restrictions were imposed on imports from and exports to Rhodesia and on transit trade in commodities originating in or destined for Rhodesia. Restrictions were imposed on capital transactions with Rhodesia. With minor exceptions, payments by residents to residents of Rhodesia were made subject to prior approval. November 21. With effect from December 1, the Bundesbank prescribed a 100 per cent mini- mum reserve ratio on additions to German banks' liabilities vis-a-vis nonresidents over their level on November 15, 1968. This reserve ratio applied with the proviso that for each credit institute the legal maxima for reserves against different kinds of liabilities would not be surpassed. November 21. The policy of self-restraint by importers of mineral oils was terminated for medium distillates (light heating oil and diesel motor f u e l ). The import licensing requirement was continued. November 25. The Fourteenth Ordinance Amending the Foreign Trade and Payments Ordi- nance, dated November 22, went into effect. The prior approval of the Bundesbank was required for the acceptance of deposits from nonresidents or for the raising of loans and credits from nonresidents by German financial institutions. Approval was also required for the payment of interest on newly opened savings accounts of non- resident individuals. However, deposits made on nonresident accounts, or the taking up by finan- cial institutions of loans or credits from nonresi- dents were exempt from the authorization require- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution merit when intended for the purpose of settling normal current and capital account transactions. Credits having a maturity of at least four years also were exempt. In addition, existing special or general licenses for payment of interest on non- resident-held accounts continued in force, and if the existing license did not limit the amount on which interest could be paid, that license now also permitted payment of interest on new balances. The taking up of credits with a maturity of up to 12 months would in general be authorized only if they did not exceed DM 1 million. General authorizations were granted to the credit institu- tions permitting them to accept monthly inward payments to the savings accounts of nonresident individuals up to DM 10,000, and to pay interest on the new balances. The credit institutions were also granted gen- eral authorizations, applicable to the accounts other than savings accounts of foreign banks and nonbanks, to accept from nonresidents funds that were not identifiable as serving only for the orderly settlement of commodity, service, or capital trans- actions, if the balance in the account concerned did not exceed DM 1 million or DM 0.2 million, respectively. Individual deposits in excess of these limits could only be made on the condition of subsequent approval; such approval would not be required if the excess were fully used within ten days for the settlement of normal current and capital account transactions. November 25. The Bundesbank entered into forward U.S. dollar contracts on an outright basis with German banks, enabling them to cover their own existing dollar claims as well as the dol- lar claims of their customers. These transactions were discontinued on December 2, when the cover facilities were restricted to the banks' gen- uine placings abroad. November 26. It was announced that mea- sures to remove obstacles to German direct invest- ment abroad were under consideration. As a first step, a bill was introduced on January 16, 1969 which would allow German firms under certain circumstances to set off losses incurred on foreign operations against income liable to German cor- poration tax. November 30. The Law Concerning Measures for Foreign Trade Safeguards went into effect. For imports on which a tax liability arose after GERMANY November 19, 1968, a special bonus (import compensation) of 4 percentage points was granted on goods hitherto taxed at 11 per cent, and one of 2 percentage points on goods hitherto taxed at 5.5 per cent; for technical reasons, this special bonus was set off against the amount of value- added tax payable to the custdms. A special turn- over tax was levied on exports effected after November 28, 1968, at a general rate of 4 per cent, or at 2 per cent for commodities subject to value-added tax at the 5.5 per cent rate. Agricul- tural products covered by the common agricul- tural policy of the EEC, except durum wheat and rice, were exempt from these measures, both for imports and exports. December 5. New arrangements were agreed with respect to self-restraint by importers of heavy fuel oil. December 5. Cuba was added to country list C of the Foreign Trade Regulation. December 5. The 100 per cent reserve require- ment on new foreign funds was eased when for December the banks were given an option between basing their calculation either on their positions on November 30 and December 15 or on those on November 30, December 7, and December 15. NOTE. —The following changes early in 1969: took place January 9. A list was published of the com- modities that did not require an export license when exported to Rhodesia. February 6. The minimum reserve require- ments in respect of the commercial banks' increases in liabilities to nonresidents were eased. Henceforth, the banks could calculate their reserve obligation from the over-all increase in external liabilities subject to reserve requirements, rather than from the increase in each type of liability separately. Furthermore, the banks were given the option of basing their calculation either on the increase in liabilities since November 15, 1968, or on that since January 15, 1969. February 27. The Sixteenth Ordinance Amending the Foreign Trade and Payments Ordi- nance revoked the Fourteenth Ordinance of November 22, 1968 (see above). The new mini- mum reserve requirements were maintained. 177 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA1 Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.870897 gram of fine gold per Ghanaian New Cedi or NC 1 = US$0.98. Exchange rates are based on the fixed rate for sterling, which is NC 1 = £0 8s. 2d. The Bank of Ghana quotes rates for the pound sterling and certain other currencies; it deals in sterling at the fixed rate plus or minus a foreign exchange com- mission of l/2 of 1 per cent. For other currencies, the commercial banks in Accra base their rates on the current London market rates plus or minus the exchange charge of % of 1 per cent levied on sterling transactions and a brokerage fee of % of 1 per cent. The authorized banks may arrange exchanges of Ghanaian currency for any foreign currency and engage in arbitrage in all currencies, spot or forward, but they do not maintain foreign exchange balances, receiving their requirements from the Bank of Ghana on a day-to-day basis. Administration of Control A subcommittee of the Economic Committee, under the chairmanship of the Governor of the Bank of Ghana, is responsible for drawing up an annual foreign exchange budget. This subcommit- tee also prepares the m in imum import program and a reduced "operational" import program based upon the known available foreign exchange resources. The programs are classified according to end-use and approved by the Economic Com- mittee of the National Liberation Council. The over-all import plan must correspond to the import ceiling set by the subcommittee in its reduced pro- gram. If additional foreign aid not taken into account in the original foreign exchange budget is received, import licenses are issued for the gap between the minimum program and the reduced program. The Controller of Imports and Exports at the Ministry of Trade is empowered, on behalf of the Ministry of Trade, to prohibit or regulate the import and export of all goods. Open general licenses, other import licenses, and other export licenses are granted by the Controller of Imports and Exports. 1 In view of certain changes that took place on January 1, 1969 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the situation on that date. 178 Applications by the industrial sector and certain state agencies for individual import licenses must be channeled through the appropriate ministry or government agency for endorsement. Applications that have been endorsed by the competent ministry or agency are then forwarded to the Controller of Imports and Exports at the Ministry of Trade. Applications by the commercial houses for the import of consumer and investment goods are sub- mitted direct to the Ministry of Trade. The Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana administers the allocation of exchange for payments for invisibles and capital. Permitted foreign exchange transactions must be made through authorized banks. All contracts providing the payment of any money by the Government require the approval of the Finance Board. Prescription of Currency Ghana is a member of the Sterling Area and has prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom. Settlements between residents of Ghana and residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made in new cedis through Sterling Area accounts, in sterling, or in other Sterling Area currencies. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Ghana to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in new cedis to the credit of a Foreign Account, in sterling to the credit of an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency. Receipts from res- idents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be obtained in new cedis from a Foreign Account, in sterling from an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency. However, settlements related to transactions cov- ered by bilateral trade and payments agreements are made through clearing accounts maintained by the Bank of Ghana and/or the central or state banks of the countries concerned.2 2 Ghana maintains such agreements with the following countries (the clearing accounts are denominated in Ghanaian new cedis unless otherwise no ted): Bulgaria, mainland China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Guinea (U.S. dollars), Hungary, Mali, Poland, Rumania, U.S.S.R., United Arab Republic (sterling), and Yugoslavia. The agreements with mainland China, Cuba, and Guinea are at present inoperative. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Nonresident Accounts Accounts in new cedis held by residents of countries within the Sterling Area other than Ghana are designated Sterling Area Accounts. These accounts may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Ghana, with transfers from Foreign Accounts and from other Sterling Area Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of Sterling Area and non-Sterling Area currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area countries, for transfers to other Sterling Area Accounts, and for purchases of Ster- ling Area currencies. Accounts in new cedis held by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia with authorized banks in Ghana are designated Foreign Accounts. The opening of these accounts is subject to approval by the Bank of Ghana. The accounts may be credited with authorized outward payments by residents of Ster- ling Area countries, with transfers from other For- eign Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of non-Sterling Area currencies other than Rho- desian pounds. They may be debited for inward payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other Foreign Accounts, and for pur- chases of Sterling Area and non-Sterling Area currencies other than Rhodesian pounds. Nonresident accounts maintained under the pro- visions of bilateral payments agreements are called "Official Accounts" or "Territorial Accounts." These accounts may be credited with authorized outward payments by residents of Sterling Area countries, with transfers from Foreign Accounts, with payments received through the Bank of Ghana for settlements with bilateral payments agreement countries, and with proceeds from sales of non-Sterling Area currencies other than Rho- desian pounds. They may be debited for autho- rized inward payments to residents of Ghana, for transfers to other Official Accounts related to the same country, and for transfers to the related clearing account at the Bank of Ghana. Blocked Accounts are nonresident accounts of another category, the purpose of which is to receive funds that are not placed at the free dis- posal of nonresidents, e.g., certain types of capital proceeds. These may be debited for authorized payments, including the purchase of approved securities. GHANA Imports and Import Payments A large part of the import trade is carried out by private importers who must be registered and have to pay a flat registration fee of NC 50 a year. Applications for import licenses by members of the Small Ghanaian Importers' Association must be accompanied by evidence showing that at least 25 per cent of the value of the applied amount has been deposited with the Association in local cur- rency. Other imports are made by state agencies. Imports of most goods produced in Ghana, as well as certain other commodities of a luxury character, are severely restricted; these are specified in a List of Restricted Commodities comprising about 80 tariff items. There are ten open general licenses which permit any registered importer to import freely from any country the commodities specified in the relevant license. These commodities include most chemicals, spare parts, fertilizers, certain electric machinery, mineral manufactures, paper and paper board, certain foodstuffs, and pharma- ceutical products. All other imports require indi- vidual licenses, which are issued within the limits of an annual import program. Individual licenses are of two kinds: specific and special unnumbered licenses. All goods not covered by an open general license must be covered by a specific license, but where satisfactory evidence can be produced to the effect that payment for such goods has been made and therefore no transfer of foreign exchange is involved, they can be imported under "special unnumbered licenses"; these are not issued for imports in commercial quantities. Import licenses do not specify the country from which the commodity has to be imported; they merely specify whether payment is to be made in convertible or inconvertible currency. Licenses are issued on a c. & f. basis and are endorsed to the effect that insurance must be covered in Ghana. Imports from Rhodesia, South Africa, South- West Africa, and the Portuguese Monetary Area are not permitted. Exchange for payment of approved imports is granted freely by the Bank of Ghana. However, with the exception of aid imports, imports under bilateral payments agreements, and certain other imports for which exemption has been granted by the Ministry of Trade in consultation with the Bank of Ghana, imports must be made on 180 days' credit. Commercial banks usually require 179 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA importers to make downpayments on the opening of letters of credit for all categories of imports. Many imports are subject to a levy of 11 % per cent on the combined amount of c.i.f. value, import duty, and other import charges. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require specific approval of the Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana, and documentary evidence must support all applications. The following categories of payments are nor- mally authorized in connection with the importa- tion of goods: ( 1) the buying commission—this must be duly endorsed on the import license and the amount of the authorized commission is deducted from the value of the import license; ( 2) the transfer of normal bank charges payable to overseas bankers for import payments, provided that the amount of the bank charges and the buy- ing commission combined do not exceed 4 per cent of the c.i.f. value of the goods; and (3) the trans- fer of funds to cover interest on bills up to 6 per cent per annum. Freight charges must be paid to the local shipping agents; the transfer of funds to cover such charges is normally permitted, provided that the applications are properly documented. With few exceptions, insurance on all imports shipped to Ghana on f.o.b. or c. & f. terms must be arranged in Ghanaian currency with local insur- ance companies. Remittances of income by non-Ghanaian employees are limited to 50 per cent of their annual earnings, up to a max imum of <£2,500 a year; this quota is intended to cover all personal and fam i ly requirements and commitments outside Ghana, including leave expenses, travel for health purposes, education, gifts, insurance premiums, subscriptions, and donations. Applications for remittances of income by non-Ghanaian self- employed persons are considered on their indi- vidual merits by the Exchange Control Depart- ment of the Bank of Ghana. Nonresident companies are, with the exception of companies financed with locally raised capital, permitted to transfer abroad freely their net profits, i.e., profits after payment of the prevailing 50 per cent tax on companies and of a 7% per cent with- holding tax; at present, however, profit transfers 180 are being authorized only on a limited basis. The transfer of profits by companies that are nonres- ident-owned or controlled and that have been financed with locally raised capital is not permitted. The basic annual travel allowance for Ghanaians is NC 55 for each person 18 years of age or over and NC 25 for each person under that age. For- eigners resident in Ghana but domiciled elsewhere in the Sterling Area are allowed up to NC 512 a calendar year out of their personal remittance quota. Exchange for business travel is granted up to NC 37 a day, for a maximum of seven days; not more than two journeys a year are allowed. All residents may buy round-trip tickets in Ghana to the country of destination, subject to approval by the Bank of Ghana. Residents of any nationality (except children under 2 years of age, diplo- mats, and UN personnel) who, for any purpose, are leaving Ghana by air or sea, whether tem- porarily or not, must pay a travel tax of 10 per cent of the price of the round-trip ticket. Persons leaving Ghana may take with them Ghanaian currency notes and foreign currency notes (including CFA f ranc notes) together equiv- alent to NC 122.50, provided that not more than NC 24.50 is taken in any one currency. Ghanaian banknotes may be taken out by any traveler up to NC 24.50 but may be spent only on Ghanaian air- craft and ships. Nonresident travelers may take out any unutilized foreign currency imported and declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia, South Africa, South-West Africa, and the Portuguese Monetary Area are prohibited. There are three open general licenses for exports, covering such articles as trade sam- ples, advertising materials, postage stamps, gifts up to NC 20 in value, and luggage. All other exports require specific licenses from the Con- troller of Imports and Exports prior to shipment. Cocoa and certain other agricultural products are exported through the Cocoa Marketing Board. Exporters are required to collect proceeds from their exports within 60 days of shipment; export proceeds in foreign exchange must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold to an authorized bank. Foreign currency notes may be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution imported freely, provided that their exportation is not prohibited by the issuing country. The import of Ghanaian currency notes is prohibited, with the exception of the reimportation of notes taken out previously by the same traveler and recorded in his passport. Capital Foreign investment in Ghana requires prior approval if repatriation is to be guaranteed. The Capital Investments Act, which was promulgated in April 1963, provides for the granting of special benefits to specified existing investments as well as to new investments. Under the Act approval may be granted to investments that contribute to the development and utilization of productive capac- ity, the reduction of import requirements, the attainment of a high level of employment, or the acquisition of technical skills by citizens of Ghana. Investments granted "approved status" under this Act obtain a guarantee of the right to transfer profits and liquidation proceeds; tax holidays, initial capital allowances, etc., are also available for such investments. The Act also stipulates that the assets of foreign investors may not be expro- priated and that, when approved enterprises are nationalized in the public interest, fa ir compensa- tion is to be determined either by voluntary agree- ment of the parties or through arbitration by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Devel- opment. A Capital Investments Board, whose prin- cipal func t ion is to decide which foreign invest- ments qualify for benefits under the Act, has been established. All outgoing capital movements must be approved; applications for such transfers must be supported by documentary evidence and are con- sidered on their merits. Transfers to beneficiaries under wills and intestacies are approved, provided that all local indebtedness has been paid. Requests for the transfer of funds representing personal assets of foreign residents in Ghana who retire and return to their home country are considered indi- vidually on their merits. Applications must be sup- ported by appropriate documentation showing that the savings are genuine and that no illegal transfer of capital is involved. If the amounts involved are very large, their transfer may be authorized over a period of a few months. Proceeds from the liquida- tion of real assets of foreign nationals leaving Ghana may be directed to reinvestment in regis- GHANA tered government stocks, treasury loans, or trea- sury bills; the interest accruing on such invest- ments is transferable. Applications for the transfer abroad of funds by emigrants must be accom- panied by appropriate documentation and are also considered on their individual merits. Loan and overdraft facilities to resident com- panies controlled by nonresidents require the individual approval of the central bank. Such companies, when financed with locally raised cap- ital, are not permitted to transfer profits or div- idends abroad. Transactions in securities are controlled to ensure that capital is not transferred abroad with- out express permission. In respect of portfolio investments, residents have to obtain approval for any switch in their holdings of securities issued by nonresidents. Gold Residents may hold and negotiate in Ghana gold obtained domestically by washing or mining according to indigenous methods, gold coins that are collectors' pieces, and gold jewelry. Other domestic transactions in gold, as well as imports and exports, may be authorized by the Ministry of Trade in collaboration with the Bank of Ghana, and certain domestic sales may be carried out by permit under the Gold Mining Products Protection Ordinance. With these exceptions no Ghanaian resident other than an authorized dealer may buy or borrow any gold from, or sell or lend any gold to, any person other than an authorized dealer. Imports of gold other than imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities are not normally licensed; imports for industrial use are very small, a specified commercial bank being the sole importer. The import duty on bullion and partly worked gold is 10 per cent, and that on other gold is 50 per cent. The gold mines export their entire output in semirefined form. Exports are free of duties or taxes; the mining corporations are subject to a minerals tax based mainly on profits. Changes during 1968 January 3. A trade agreement between Ghana and Dahomey, providing for most-favored-nation treatment, entered into force. All payments were to be made in freely convertible currencies, and 181 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA the bilateral payments agreement with Dahomey was terminated. January 19. Fresh frozen beef and certain other commodities were included in the list of restricted commodities. January 24. The Bank of Ghana announced a new scheme for the transfer of profits, covering both accumulated arrears and current profits. Arrears of profits and dividends relating to periods before July 1, 1967 were to be cleared gradually according to a system of priorities based on both chronological order of accrual and occupational classification of the firm. A first installment was to be cleared in the first half of 1968. For current earnings, applications to transfer profits and div- idends, especially those of manufac tur ing, mining, and agricultural companies, were to receive favor- able exchange control treatment. February 13. The bilateral payments agree- ment with Albania was formally terminated. February 16. The open general licenses were extended to include certain fishing accessories. March 30. The business travel allowance was increased from NC 30 to NC 37 a day, still sub- ject to a max imum of seven days. April 4. The Ministry of Trade announced that no more than 90 per cent of the value of specific licenses issued for 1968 could be utilized by December 31, and that no extension of licenses would be permitted. In case of irrevocable com- mitments entered into by importers in respect of the whole amount approved on each license, such licenses would be endorsed to enable importers to carry over a balance of 10 per cent to 1969. April 23. All applications for the establishment of import credits with the commercial banks against open general licenses were to be referred to the Bank of Ghana, in order to decide whether the import orders could be placed against any of the foreign aid offers. May 28. The Bank of Ghana announced a final review of the scheme for settlement of arrears of current payments that were awaiting foreign exchange cover on May 31, 1966. Foreign exchange cover would be provided for the transfer of all remaining amounts due for transfer. June 29. The requirement that insurance on all 182 goods imported into Ghana be arranged locally was temporarily suspended in respect of U.S. insurance companies, for goods imported under a commodity loan from the U.S. Government. July 1. It was announced that any enterprise engaged in local distributive trade (defined as including impor t ing), with an annual sales volume of less than NC 500,000, would be reserved to Ghanaian nationals. Foreign nationals operating such companies would be permitted to continue activities if they introduced training programs for Ghanaian employees, undertook not to employ nonresidents (other than working proprietors) in the fu tu re, or adopted other measures to satisfy the Ministry of Economic Affa irs that the enter- prises were being Ghanaized. July 16. It was announced that with effect from Janua ry 1, 1969 the 1 per cent licensing fee on the c. & f. value of all imports would be abolished. July 16. It was announced that the withholding tax on profit transfers abroad was reduced from I2y2 per cent to 7% per cent for profits earned after July 1, 1968. August 30. It was announced that with effect from Janua ry 1, 1969 the open general licenses would be extended to include all organic and inor- ganic chemicals and chemical products, paper and paper board, iron and steel products, tools, elec- trical machinery and apparatus, and textbooks for educational institutions. August 30. The import licensing procedures for 1969 were announced. Applications for specific licenses by members of the Small Ghanaian Importer's Association must be accompanied by certificates from the appropriate associations showing that at least 25 per cent of the value of the import license applied for had been deposited with the Association in local currency. September 12. It was announced that with effect from January 1, 1969 the open general licenses would be extended to include all medical and pharmaceutical products. October 22. A new agreement was reached with the governments that were guaranteeing the major part of the outstanding medium-term (1-12 years) suppliers' credits on the principles which should underlie the rescheduling of Ghana's pay- ments on suppliers' credits falling due after ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution December 31, 1968. (A rearrangement of the payments due on such debt through December 31, 1968 had been approved on December 9, 1966.) The general principles agreed upon for renegoti- ation of the medium-term debt were to form the basis of bilateral agreements to be negotiated between Ghana and each of the creditor countries concerned. November 15. It was announced that with effect from January 1, 1969 the open general licenses were extended to include beet and cane sugar. December 1. The Ministry of Trade was autho- rized to start issuing import licenses for 1969 for essential goods, such as rice, milk, flour, fish, meat, and petroleum products, up to amounts equivalent to 25 per cent of the total value of the respective licensing allocation in 1968. December 9. It was announced that nonres- idents whose business establishments had been GHANA financed with locally raised capital would no longer be allowed to transfer profits abroad. December 9. The bilateral payments agreement with Israel was terminated and replaced by a trade agreement providing for most-favored-nation treatment. NOTE. —The following changes took place early in 1969: January 1. A number of commodities were added to the existing open general licenses for imports. January 1. The license fee of 1 per cent payable on the c. & f. value of all imports was abolished. January 1. Foreign nationals were no longer allowed to operate small retail or wholesale busi- nesses in Ghana. There would be a five-year grace period for those who had operated such businesses since before July 1, 1968. 183 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0296224 gram of fine gold per Greek Drachma or Dr 30.00 = US$1. The official rates are Dr. 29.90 buying, and Dr. 30.10 selling, per US$1. Market rates for other curren- cies vary between limits which result from com- bining the official limits for the U.S. dollar main- tained by Greece and such limits in force in the coun try of the other currency concerned. Administration of Control Controls are administered on the policy level by the Ministry of Coordination, the Ministry of Trade, the Currency Committee, and the Foreign Trade Board. Exchange control is implemented and applied, and import approvals are granted, by the Bank of Greece and authorized commer- cial banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Bank of Greece, authorized banks, and the Ministry of Commerce and, in some cases, require the prior approval of the competent ministry. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Greece has bilateral payments agreements are made through controlled accounts, with the U.S. dollar as the currency of account.1 Settlements with all other countries are made in any convertible cur- rency or through Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts in drachmas. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are permitted to open with Greek banks convertible Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts in drachmas or convertible currencies. These accounts may be credited with convertible foreign exchange or the proceeds from sales of convert- ible currencies, with authorized payments by resi- dents of Greece for imports or services payable in convertible currencies, and with transfers from 1 Greece ma in ta ins bilateral payments agreements with Brazil, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hun- gary, Israel, Poland, Rumania, U.S.S.R., United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia. Most settlements w i th Portu- gal are channeled through special accounts; balances on these accounts are settled mon th ly. There is a bilateral account for settlement w i th Chile of trade in specified commodities. The agreement w i th Israel will be termi- nated w i th effect from June 30, 1969. 184 other Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts. They may be debited for payments to residents for current transactions, for transfers to other Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts, and for the purchase and transfer abroad of any convertible currency. Any withdrawal from drachma accounts for use in Greece and any conversion of foreign exchange withdrawals into drachmas entail the loss of the reconversion right of the sums withdrawn. The maximum rate of interest on such accounts is 1.50 per cent per annum. Nonresident investors enjoying the privileges of Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 (see section on Capital, below) may also establish time deposits, for a minimum period of six months and with a m in imum deposit in convertible currencies equiv- alent to US$10,000; balances on these accounts earn interest of between 6 per cent and 7 per cent, and principal and interest are freely transferable at ma tu r i ty in the currency of the deposit. All drachma assets of nonresidents other than those in Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts must be declared and are held in blocked accounts. Domestic banknotes in excess of Dr 200 brought in by nonresident travelers must also be credited to a blocked account, as must certain income accruing in Greece to nonresidents. Subject to the approval of the exchange control authorities, bal- ances on blocked accounts may be used for such purposes as personal expenses in Greece up to Dr 30,000 a visit, purchases of securities offi- cially listed on the stock exchange in Greece, and purchases of real estate in Greece. Amounts of up to Dr 60,000 may be released for remittance by each account holder, provided that the funds were held before December 31, 1963; amounts of up to Dr 30,000 may be released semiannually for remittance by each account holder, from accounts opened a f ter Janua ry 1, 1964, provided that the money deposited was derived exclusively from rents. Other amounts of balances on blocked accounts may also be transferred abroad with the prior approval of the Bank of Greece. Blocked balances may be deposited with a commercial bank, where they earn interest at current rates for sight deposits. Greek citizens (including seamen) who are employed abroad may establish convertible for- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution eign currency accounts with authorized banks in Greece. Balances on these accounts earn interest at 1.25 per cent per annum for sight deposits, 6.25-7.50 per cent per annum for time deposits, and 6.0 per cent per annum for savings bank deposits. Balances on these accounts, including accrued interest, are freely convertible into for- eign exchange as long as the holder continues to work abroad, or to serve at sea, and for five years thereafter. Imports and Import Payments Imports of all commodities originating in or shipped from Rhodesia are prohibited and imports of cotton textiles from Hong Kong are suspended. All other imports, except those w i th an invoice value c.i.f. of the equivalent of US$100 or less for which payment will be made through an author- ized bank, require approval. For most imports, prior approval is required; however, for certain commodities, mainly machinery and raw mate- rials, imports may be effected without prior approval. The granting of an import license implies that appropriate foreign exchange will be made available. Apart from imports for which special licenses are required, two general import procedures (E and D) are applicable to private imports, mainly for statistical purposes. Under procedure E, the approval of an authorized bank is required ( 1) for imports from countries par- ticipating in the European Monetary Agreement (EMA) other than Sweden when payment is to be made in a convertible or externally convertible European currency; ( 2) for imports from Canada or the United States when payment is to be made in free dollars, i.e., not on the basis of procure- ment authorizations under U.S. aid; and (3) for imports from countries with which Greece has concluded bilateral payments agreements when payment is to be made through the relevant clear- ing account. No license is necessary under proce- dure E, but import applications which have been approved by an authorized bank are registered with the Bank of Greece. Under procedure D, an import approval issued by the Bank of Greece is required for imports financed by U.S. aid, for imports other than those covered by procedure E, for all imports f rom Sweden, and for imports for which the importer requests changes in the gen- eral provisions concerning the terms of shipment, method of settlement, terms of payment, etc. For GREECE all goods that do not require a special import license, prices must be approved and pro forma invoices visaed in Greece by a local Chamber of Commerce. Special licenses are required for imports of commodities in List A (gold, certain luxury items, textiles, automobiles and parts, and certain food- s tuffs, including special-quality rice) and List B (certain types of machinery and spare par ts). Special regulations govern imports of petroleum products similar to those produced by Greek refineries and imports of certain other items, such as goods under monopoly control, medicines, nar- cotics, wheat and flour, sulphur, and motion- picture films, as well as barter transactions based on clearing agreements. For purposes of applying regulations concern- ing payments for imports and advance deposit requirements, all private imports are classified in nine lists (P-6, P-12, F, F-50/1-3, and F-100/1-3). Payments for imports may be made by letter of credit, by cash against shipping docu- ments, or by acceptance of time drafts (which is permitted only for goods in Lists P-6 and P-12, the time limit being six months for List P-6 and one year for List P-12, except for machinery and spare parts, for which the time limit is three yea rs ). The Ministry of Commerce may authorize longer payment periods and may also approve deferred payments for imports not included in the P lists. When time drafts are accepted, a per- sonal written under tak ing amounting to 4 per cent of the amount of the d ra ft is required as a guaran- tee that the payment will be made w i th in the pre- scribed time limits. When a letter of credit is opened, the importer is required to deposit in drachmas the whole amount of the credit w i th the intervening bank. In addition, for those imports included in Lists F-100/1 and F-100/2, fu r ther cash deposits of, respectively, 40 per cent and 19 per cent of the c.i.f. value are required as security for import duties and other taxes. For imports under proce- dure E, this deposit must be made when the import approval is obtained; for imports under procedure D, the deposit must be made w i th in 20 days of the import approval. Advance deposits are not required for imports for which payment is to be made by acceptance of time d ra f ts. When payments for imports are to 185 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE be made against sight drafts, advance deposits in cash are required for private imports included in Lists F-50/1-3 and F-100/1-3.2 Advance deposits are the same for all countries. They are calculated on the c.i.f. invoice value and consist of two com- ponents: a prepayment required when applying for an import approval and an advance (secur i ty) against import duties and other taxes. Security deposits, however, are not required for capital goods and spare parts that are exempt from import du ty by virtue of the laws governing invest- ment of foreign or domestic capital. The rates of deposit for each list of imports are set out below. Prepayment In per cent 50 42y2 25 100 85 50 Security of invoice 20 17 10 40 34 20 Total value 70 59y2 35 1403 119 70 ListF-50/1 List F-50/2 List F-50/3 List F- 100/1 List F- 100/2 ListF-100/3 For goods imported and cleared through cus- toms in the Dodecanese Islands, the advance against import duties and other taxes is reduced to one half of the above-mentioned percentages. When imports are financed with U.S. aid funds, a fu r ther deposit of 10 per cent must be made in cash or by bank guarantee and in favor of the Greek State, in addition to any deposit as speci- fied above. All deposits must be made with the intervening bank ( 1) at the time the import approval is obtained, for imports under proce- dure E, and ( 2) within 10 days ( for Athens and the Piraeus area) or 20 days ( for the provinces) of obtaining the import approval, for imports under procedure D. Upon delivery of the shipping documents, the importer's bank issues a permit for the customs clearance of the goods, and advance deposits are refunded; however, for goods included in Lists F-50/1-3 and F-100/1-3 the deposits must be retained by the commercial bank for a period of four months from the date on which they were made for a range of specified 2 Commodities not included in these lists, or in Lists A, B, P-6, P-12, or F, are subject to the advance deposit requirements applicable to goods in List F-50/3. No advance deposit is required for products in Lists F, P-6, and P-12. 3 The total of prepayment and security deposit for ham and European-type cheese is 98 per cent. 186 imports covering fabrics, electrical household appliances, and passenger motor vehicles and for a period of two months for other imports. Certain companies, public agencies, and orga- nizations that have been designated as public service institutions are exempt from the advance deposit requirements. Advance payments may be made to foreign suppliers for all imports against delivery of ship- ping documents or against a letter of undertaking issued by a foreign bank. Special regulations gov- ern imports by state agencies, public entities, and public utility companies. Except for goods in Lists P-6 and P-12, which may be shipped prior to approval, goods must be shipped within six months and arrive in Greece within nine months after the date of import approval. Final settle- ment of the value of imported goods must take place within 60 days following the date of arrival at the first Greek port; however, settlement must take place within 120 days following the date of arrival for goods in Lists P-6 and P-12. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require approval, but this is granted freely for expenses incidental to authorized trade transactions and for certain other transactions. Transfers abroad on account of specified categories of insurance (shipping, aviation, merchandise transport, and fire) or reinsurance (accident and l i fe) are authorized by the Bank of Greece up to specified percentages of the amounts owed. Greek residents going abroad for fam i ly rea- sons, tourist travel, or business are entitled to the equivalent of US$200 for each trip and for any number of trips a year; instead of this allowance, tourists participating in group tours are granted an amount based on a cost declaration submitted by the travel agency. Exporters and manufac- turers are allowed US$20 a day for a max imum of 45 days when they travel to the United States, Canada, or the Far East; for all other countries the allowance is US$15 a day for a max imum of 30 days. Requests for larger amounts or from other businessmen, commercial representatives, etc., are submitted to the Foreign Exchange Sub- committee. Persons traveling abroad may take with them ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution a max imum of Dr 2 0 04 in Greek banknotes. Greek nationals, not including those resident abroad, are required to declare all domestic and foreign banknotes and other valuables taken with them upon leaving Greece; no declaration is required f rom holders of foreign passports. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. All exports require individual licenses, but most exports are free of quantitative limitation. Export proceeds must be surrendered within 150 days from the date of export of the goods; in special cases, how- ever, the authorities are empowered to extend this period up to two years for manufactures and up to one year for other commodities. The Ministry of Commerce may license barter transactions involving the export of tobacco, certain types of f ru i t, or wines; such transactions are permitted with mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Iran, Israel, Poland, and the U.S.S.R. In addition, any commodity may, sub- ject to individual authorization, be exported on a barter basis to Albania, mainland China, the Republic of China, and Iran. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts representing payments for services must be surrendered. Exchange proceeds from shipping are exempt from the surrender requirement, but shipowners have to pay for sup- plies, repairs, etc., and any taxes and fees, and must cover their disbursements and expenses in Greece in local currency obtained through the sale of foreign exchange to the Bank of Greece. Travelers may bring in a maximum of Dr 200 5 in Greek banknotes in denominations of Dr 50 and Dr 100 only. Any surplus is deposited in a blocked account with the Bank of Greece; sub- ject to prior approval by the Bank, the surplus may be taken out on departure or spent in Greece on personal financial requirements. Greek resi- dents returning to Greece must declare the foreign exchange in their possession. Nonresident trav- elers of foreign nationality may import any amount of foreign currency and need not declare it at the time of entering the country, and non- 4 Increased to Dr 750 with effect from March 6, 1969. 5 Increased to Dr 750 with effect from March 6, 1969. GREECE residents holding Greek passports are required to declare their foreign exchange only if they intend, when leaving Greece, to take out again foreign exchange in excess of US$500 or its equivalent. Capital Commercial banks and investment banks may freely borrow convertible currencies abroad, pro- vided that they lend corresponding amounts as foreign currency loans for periods of at least five years to productive enterprises established in Greece. All other investments in Greece by non- residents are subject to approval. Such approval is automatic for purchases of real estate for per- sonal use. Under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53, approved foreign investments which aim at the promotion of national production or otherwise contribute to the economic advancement of Greece may be granted preferential treatment. Under Law No. 4171/61, as amended by Legislative Decree No. 4256/62, fu r ther privileges are pro- vided for foreign capital participating in invest- ment projects in Greece exceeding Dr 60 million in value. Moreover, Legislative Decree No. 4256/62 provides additional repatriation facilities for for- eign investments which promote exports. Repatriation facilities are as follows: (1) Ap- proved investments according to the provisions of the legislation mentioned above may not be repatriated before one year from the date the enterprise begins to operate productively and in no case before one year from the date the capital was imported. (2) The repatriation of foreign capital may not exceed 10 per cent a year of the amount of capital imported. The repatriation of dividends on equity capital and of interest on loan capital may not exceed 12 per cent a year and 10 per cent a year, respectively. (3) Under the provisions of Law No. 4171/61, profits on approved foreign investments may be transferred abroad in amounts not exceeding 6 per cent a year of the repatriated portion of the capital, pro- vided, however, that the amount of profits trans- ferred shall not exceed 8 per cent of the foreign exchange earnings of the enterprise from the sale of its products abroad. (4) For investments made under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 that are not covered by Law No. 4171/61, the transfer of profits is related to the residual capital remaining in Greece, and the transfer privilege expires as soon as all capital has been repatriated. (5) Under 187 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE the provisions of Legislative Decree No. 4256/62, the repatriation of capital and profits of foreign investments approved under the provisions of Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 can exceed the rates specified in ( 2) above, up to 70 per cent of the foreign exchange earnings of the enterprise from the sale of its products abroad. Also, for- eign loans approved under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 can be repatriated at an annual rate of up to 20 per cent, provided that the amount of the loan does not exceed double the value of the share capital and that the amounts repatriated do not exceed 70 per cent of the foreign exchange earnings of the corporation. Deviations from the general regulations may be approved for foreign capital imported to develop exports of agricultural and mining products or invested in enterprises of special importance to the economy. Specified foreign short-term invest- ment may also be granted preferential treatment in respect of the repatriation of capital and the transfer of interest. Transfers of capital abroad by residents require approval. Gold Residents may freely purchase specified gold coins (mainly sovereigns) from the Bank of Greece, through licensed stockbrokers, at prices set by the central bank; purchasers must sign a statement to the effect that the coins will only be resold to the Bank of Greece or to licensed stock- brokers. Holders of gold coins acquired in the free market that existed prior to December 22, 1965 may sell these anonymously and without formality only to the Bank of Greece or to an authorized bank and at the official price. Resi- dents may deal freely, however, in bullion. Imports of gold against payment in foreign exchange are on import List A and require a special license issued by the Ministry of Commerce; licenses are normally issued to reputable importers for distri- bution to recognized users, such as jewelers and dentists. Gold bars and gold coins may be imported freely by commercial banks and other residents when no payment in foreign exchange is involved. Changes during 1968 January 1. The general percentage of value increase for purposes of assessment of turnover 188 tax on imports was raised from 15 per cent to 20 per cent of the c.i.f. value. Percentages for a large number of commodities were set at 30 per cent, 40 per cent, or 50 per cent. March 1. Import Lists P-3 and P-6 were redes- ignated, respectively, P-6 and P-12. The maxi- mum term of usance bills for imports of goods on List P-6 was doubled to six months. The obliga- tory period of settlement for imports on these lists was extended from 90 days to 120 days after arrival. May 18. Additional tax incentives and exemp- tions for foreign investment in industries with capital in excess of Dr 60 million were effected by the amendment of Law No. 4171/61. May 25. Certain tax exemptions in respect of foreign loans and interest thereon, which were previously limited to industrial, mining, and bank- ing firms, were extended to tourist enterprises and to public corporations and enterprises. June 1. The interest rates on foreign cur- rency deposits covered by Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 were raised by one percentage point. July 4. The minimum period for the retention of advance import deposits was extended from two months to four months for a range of manufac- tured imports on Lists F-50/1-3 and F-100/1-3, including various fabrics, electrical household appliances, and on List F-100/3A, passenger automobiles; for the last category of goods it was announced that the new requirement would be in effect for eight months. July 9. The tax provisions applicable to Greek shipping were revised and simplified to induce Greek vessels sailing under foreign flags to trans- fer to the Greek register. August 21. Decree No. 501 provided for the introduction of state insurance of export credits. September 16. The import of television sets was prohibited. October 1. Preferential bank borrowing rates were introduced for exporters. October 18. Imports from Sweden were made subject to procedure D, i.e., they required import approval by the Bank of Greece. October 24. The prohibition on imports of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution television sets was lifted but import quotas for such imports were established. xr L i T j • i i r« r November 1. In accordance with the Treaty of Association with the European Economic Com- mun i ty (EEC ), a fu r th er ( f i f t h) reduction by 10 per cent was made in the customs duties on manu fac tu red goods imported from the EEC countries that are not produced in Greece and that are subject to the 12-year schedule adopted under the Treaty. November 22. Imports of fertilizer became subject to approval by the Ministry of Agricul- ture and were limited to types not produced in Greece. GREECE 189 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.888671 gram of fine gold per Guatemalan Quetzal or Q 1.00 = US$1. The official rates are Q 1.00 buying, and Q 1.01 sell- ing, per US$1. The Bank of Guatemala quotes exchange rates for certain other currencies1 on the basis of their rates in the New York market. On January 27, 1947, Guatemala notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Guatemala (Exchange Department) under the direction of the Monetary Board. Foreign ex- change transactions of the public sector are car- ried out exclusively through the Bank of Guate- mala; those of the private sector are carried out through the medium of authorized banks for the account of the Monetary Stabilization Fund main- tained by the Bank of Guatemala. Prescription of Currency All exchange transactions must be carried out through banks. Payments to Costa Rica, El Sal- vador, Honduras, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and invisibles are normally settled in Guate- malan quetzales through the Camara de Com- pensation Centroamericana, a clearinghouse estab- lished by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. The Exchange Department of the Bank of Guatemala, however, is empowered to autho- rize the sale of currencies of other Central Ameri- can countries to make payments to the Central American area. There are no obligations prescrib- ing the currency for payments to and from other countries. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required except for imports of maps of Guatemala, explosives, poul- try, and wheat flour. Within 8 days after confir- 1 Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 190 mation, importers must register with the Exchange Department any firm order to import merchandise. (Imports originating from Central American countries and included in the General Treaty for Central American Economic Integration are exempt from this requirement.) Importers must effect their registered imports during the 90-day validity of the registration. All remittances abroad to pay for imports require exchange licenses, which are granted freely by the Exchange Department; the exchange is granted by the authorized banks upon submis- sion of the registration form and the shipping documents. Checks denominated in quetzales are authorized freely for payment for specified imports from Central American countries. Payments for imports which have to be fully or partially pre- paid must be made by letter of credit. When it is impossible to establish a letter of credit and the prepayment exceeds Q 1,000, a deposit equal to 25 per cent of the amount of foreign exchange requested must be made with the Bank of Guate- mala or an authorized bank in cash or in govern- ment bonds by importers who are not established importers in the country or who are unable to provide sufficient proof of the nature of the trans- action; the deposit is refunded when the goods arrive in Guatemala. Importers of merchandise for which payment must be made in cash or in installments, and importers of merchandise on consignment, must present the original shipping documents usually required by the Guatemalan customs for the clearance of goods. Authorizations to withdraw imports from cus- toms must be obtained from the Exchange Depart- ment or an authorized bank, except for imports whose value does not exceed Q 50, household goods, samples, printed advertising material, and those imports originating in Central American countries and included in the General Treaty for Central American Economic Integration. The Exchange Department and the authorized banks issue such authorizations without delay. The cus- toms officials may refuse clearance of goods if discrepancies are found between the information contained in the authorization issued by the Ex- change Department and in the import documents. For the specified imports from Central American countries, the importer must complete, at either ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the Exchange Department or the customs office, a special form required by the Exchange Depart- ment, giving a description of the merchandise to be imported and the date on which he made the advance payment or the date on which he under- took to pay in the fu ture. If these forms are completed at the customs office, they must be forwarded daily to the Exchange Department. A surcharge of 100 per cent of the customs duty may be applied to products originating in or imported from countries with which Guate- mala has an unfavorable trade balance. On December 31, 1968, this surcharge applied to certain imports from 28 countries.2 This sur- charge is waived if the goods are transported in Guatemalan ships. Moreover, all imports from other areas which are included in the agreed uni- form tariff list of the countries participating in the General Treaty for Central American Eco- nomic Integration are exempt from the surcharge. Imports originating outside the Central Ameri- can Common Market are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable im- port duty. Payments for Invisibles All transfers abroad on account of current invisibles require authorization by the Exchange Department, mainly for the purposes of checking capital transactions. Payments of up to Q 1,000 to El Salvador or up to Q 200 to Costa Rica, Honduras, and Nicaragua do not require autho- rization by the Exchange Department. Requests for foreign exchange for payments for current invisibles must be supported by such documents as may be required by the Exchange Department to verify that the operation is genu- ine. The sale of foreign exchange for most cate- gories of current invisibles, including remittances of income from and repayments of registered for- eign loans and investments, is authorized freely. For certain payments for current invisibles, ex- change is sold up to established limits; in some cases, requests in excess of these limits are 2 Australia, Borneo, Ceylon, Democratic Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, Finland, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Japan, Malagasy Republic, Malaysia, Mexico, Morocco, Mozambique, Netherlands, Pakistan, Philip- pines, Portugal, Somalia, Sudan, Thailand, Un i ted Arab Republic, Un i ted Kingdom, U ruguay, and Yugoslavia. GUATEMALA approved. There is an exchange allowance equiv- alent to a maximum of Q 2,500 a person in any one year for tourist travel abroad. Minors not traveling alone are entitled to half the adult allow- ance. The exchange allocation for travelers on business is Q 750 a person for journeys to British Honduras and the Mexican border towns, and Q 2,500 for journeys to other parts of the world. Subject to the Q 2,500 annual limit, exchange is granted up to the equivalent of Q 50 for each day of planned tourist travel abroad; exchange in excess of this daily maximum is granted when an additional allotment is considered justified. To ensure that both limits are observed for tourist travel, the traveler, when purchasing travel exchange, must lodge with the Bank of Guate- mala a guarantee deposit in quetzales equivalent to the foreign exchange purchased; the deposit is refunded upon return to Guatemala, provided that the traveler either submits proof of having stayed abroad for at least the number of days for which he purchased the exchange or returns for- eign exchange corresponding to the number of days of the shortfall. All international air pas- sages (with the exception of those for travel within Central America) are subject to a tax of Q 3 for a one-way ticket or Q 5 for a round-trip ticket. The exchange allocation for remittances abroad for fam i ly maintenance is Q 250 a month for each relative (Q 200 for those under 18 years of age ), up to a maximum of Q 700 a month for each beneficiary fam i ly. Foreign technical per- sonnel employed in Guatemala may remit abroad up to two thirds of their salaries if their families reside abroad, or up to one third if their families reside in Guatemala. Foreign technicians leaving the country permanently may, subject to individ- ual approval, transfer their savings up to the full amount of their earnings in Guatemala. Limits are also imposed on remittances for students' expenses abroad. The export of Guatemalan banknotes and coins is not prohibited; however, Guatemalan bank- notes and coins received from abroad are not converted by the Bank of Guatemala unless they come from Costa Rica, El Salvador, Honduras, or Nicaragua. For these countries, the Bank of Guatemala guarantees monthly conversions into U.S. dollars up to the following limits: Costa Rica, Q 125,000; El Salvador, Q 400,000; Hon- 191 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA duras, Q 300,000; and Nicaragua, Q 125,000. There are no regulations prohibiting the export of foreign banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require an export license from the Exchange Department of the Bank of Guatemala. Exports to Central American countries of goods included in the General Treaty for Central Ameri- can Economic Integration are exempt from this requirement; for these goods, the exporter must complete a special form required by the Exchange Department presenting evidence that the export proceeds have been sold to an authorized bank. The application for an export license must be accompanied by a fu ll description of the nature of the transaction, including the terms and method of payment. The Exchange Department issues licenses only if certain conditions have been me t: ( 1) for exports paid for in advance or in cash, it requires evidence that the export proceeds have been sold to an authorized bank; ( 2) for exports on credit, it requires an undertaking to sell the relevant exchange to an authorized bank within 90 days of the date the license is issued; and ( 3) for exports on consignment, it requires the export- er's certified declaration showing the estimated value of the export and his undertaking to sell the relevant exchange to an authorized bank within a period not exceeding 180 days after the issuance of the license. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles must be declared and surrendered. The import of Gua- temalan and foreign banknotes is not restricted. The purchase of Salvadoran banknotes by autho- rized banks is limited to C 500 a person. Capital All foreign capital investments in Guatemala must be declared and registered with the Exchange Department of the Bank of Guatemala. All invest- ment by foreign, domestic, or foreign-controlled companies in the construction of private housing in Guatemala requires the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy; such investment may be limited to a specified over-all amount a year, it must meet certain minimum quality and financ- ing standards, and the sales value of a housing 192 unit must not exceed Q 6,000. All outgoing capi- tal payments require exchange licenses, which, like those for the transfer of profits and dividends, are granted freely for remittances of registered foreign investments and amortization of foreign loans. Transfers abroad of resident-owned capital are not permitted, with the exception of transfers for the purpose of investing in, or financing of, commercial, agricultural, or industrial firms in Costa Rica, El Salvador, Honduras, and Nica- ragua. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form in Guatemala. Residents other than banks may sell gold coins and gold bars only to the Bank of Guatemala or to banks licensed for this purpose by the Monetary Board. The Bank of Guatemala is obliged to purchase all gold offered to it. The Bank also sells gold to domestic artistic and indus- trial users, in accordance with directives of the Monetary Board. Gold is imported only by the Bank of Guatemala. Changes during 1968 January 1. Decree No. 1729 established a sales and service tax of 5 per cent and a 20 per cent tax on nonessential goods. January 8. Decree No. 1731 revoked Decree No. 1729 and continued the rate of stamp tax on contracts at 1.5 per cent. April 25. Imports of synthetic rubber required a specific import license. June 7. Temporary import restrictions were imposed pending the entry into force of the Pro- tocol of San Jose. Imports of all goods, except when originating in countries of the Central American Common Market and covered by the relative treaty, became subject to individual licens- ing; goods with an f.o.b. value not exceeding Q 100 were exempt from license, as were cattle, certain essential foodstuffs, and specified other commodities (including gold coins, gold bars, and semimanufactured go ld). Import quotas for each importer amounting to 90 per cent of the c.i.f. value of the goods he imported during the period June 1 to December 31, 1967 were to be applied from June 7 to December 31, 1968. June 18. The import restrictions imposed on ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution June 7 were modified. The 90 per cent quota could be exceeded for capital goods and materials for public works; semifinished goods and packing material required for exports to countries outside the Central American Common Market; and imports financed with funds held abroad by pri- vate persons, provided that these funds were registered with the Exchange Control Depart- ment. No licenses were required for imports by the public sector, liberalized imports from the member countries of the Central American Com- mon Market, imports by diplomatic personnel, and imports of some specified goods, e.g., basic foodstuffs, fuels and some chemicals, agricultural machinery, certain medical and scientific equip- ment, and jeeps and trucks. July 19. Decree No. 1774 exempted coffee of the current crop from export tax. September 6. Decree No. 1780 imposed on imports of specified commodities an additional GUATEMALA tax equal to the amount of all internal taxes levied on the same commodities when produced in Guatemala. The principal goods affected were alcoholic beverages, such as whisky and gin. September 17. Decree No. 1722 required all public sector entities to keep the Ministry of Finance informed continuously of all actions related to domestic or foreign indebtedness. Infor- mation on existing debts also was required. September 21. Certain additional commodities were exempted from the temporary import restric- tions. November 8. The temporary import restrictions of June 7 were revoked. November 8. A surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import du ty was levied on all imports originating in countries outside the Central Ameri- can Common Market. 193 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of the Republic of Guinea has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency (introduced on March 1, 1960) is the Guinean Franc, defined as a mone- tary unit containing 0.0036 gram of fine gold. It corresponds to GF 50 = 1 French franc and GF 246.853 = US$1. The official buying and selling rates are GF 247 and GF 255 per US$1, respectively. These rates apply to all transactions and include a bank commission. Clearing account transactions under bilateral payments agreements are carried out on the basis of GF 246.853 per US$1. Administration of Control The Central Bank of the Republic of Guinea is the only authority in exchange control matters; this authority is carried out through the Exchange Control Office of the Bank. The Bank has not delegated any of its exchange control powers to any other bank or institution. The Minister of State for Financial Affairs is charged with super- vision over the Central Bank. All settlements with foreign countries, including payments for imports, require individual licenses from the Exchange Control Office. Import and export licenses are issued, within the framework of an annual program, by the Ministry of Commerce, Transportation, and Tele- communications (the Office of the Director of Foreign Trade) after applications have been screened by the National Economic Commission; licenses are subject to approval by the Exchange Office. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made in currencies prescribed by, and through accounts established under, the provisions of the agree- ments.1 Settlements with other countries are made in convertible currencies.2 1 Gu inea ma in ta ins bilateral payments agreements w i th the following countries: Albania, Algeria, Bulgaria, main- land China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Ghana, Hungary, North Korea, Lebanon, Mali, Morocco, Poland, Ruman ia, Sierra Leone, U.S.S.R., United Arab 194 Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: Nonresident Transferable Accounts in Foreign Currencies and Nonresident Accounts in Guinean Francs. The opening of a nonresident account is subject to the prior approval of the Exchange Control Office. Imports and Import Payments There is no list of prohibited imports, but cer- tain imports are not being licensed. All imports, other than those for the Seven-Year Plan, require individual licenses, which are issued by the Minis- try of Foreign and Domestic Trade, after appli- cations have been screened and approved by the National Economic Commission. Once an import license has been issued, authorization for the cor- responding payment is granted by the Exchange Control Office. Imports by foreign concession holders require import licenses for statistical pur- poses only and are not restricted. Most imports into Guinea are made within the framework of an annual import program. This program is prepared by the Ministry of Foreign and Domestic Trade on the basis of the country's import needs, the domestic production possibil- ities of import substitutes, and experience with the previous year's import program. The program requires the approval of the National Economic Commission, which takes into consideration the sources of imports and the availability of convert- ible currencies and of balances under payments agreements. Certain items are imported outside the import program. These are goods for which foreign exchange is derived from sources other than the exchange reserves of Guinea—e.g., imports made by foreign concession holders (the Fria Company and the Sifra Company) and by foreign embas- Republic, North Viet-Nam, and Yugoslavia. There are also inoperative payments agreements with Cameroon, Liberia, and Senegal and a clearing arrangement with a private firm established in Switzerland. 2 These currencies are listed as Algerian dinars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Congo zai'res, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Ghanaian new cedis, I ta l ian lire, Libyan pounds, Moroccan dirhams, Netherlands guilders, Nigerian pounds, Portuguese escu- dos, pounds sterling, Sierra Leonean leones, Spanish pesetas, Sudanese pounds, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution sies—and goods for the Seven-Year Plan. All commercial imports other than those by the Fria Company and the Sifra Company are made by state enterprises that specialize in various types of commerce. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the authori- zation of the Exchange Control Office, irrespec- tive of the country to which the payment is to be made. Payments for freight and insurance in connec- tion with imports are authorized as part of the import license. No exchange is granted for other types of insurance with companies abroad. There is no basic allocation for tourist travel; each appli- cation is considered individually. There is a basic allocation for business travel expenses (other than transportation) of GF 15,000 a trip. Government officials on official missions are permitted an allowance of GF 2,000 a day if they travel in Africa and GF 2,500 a day if they travel outside Africa. Pilgrims are granted exchange up to the equivalent of GF 60,000 for each pilgrimage and, in addition, up to GF 190,000 to pay for fares connected with the pilgrimage. In cases of seri- ous illness, provided that a doctor's certificate is submitted, Guinean nationals are granted foreign exchange for medical care abroad or are per- mitted to transfer exchange for the care of rela- tives receiving medical treatment abroad. Individ- ual authorization is required for the payment in Guinea of all fares for foreign travel. Payments for family support may be made up to GF 10,000 a month for each beneficiary, whether child or adult. For officially recognized study abroad, the student's relatives may transfer the equivalent of the amount of a government scholarship, i.e., GF 22,500 a month. Students starting their studies abroad are granted an addi- tional foreign exchange allowance of up to GF 40,000. The Foreign Investment Law guar- antees that at least 20 per cent of the net annual profits of approved foreign investments may be transferred abroad; the percentage actually per- mitted to be transferred depends on the agree- ment concluded between the enterprise concerned and the Government. In addition to transfers under other regulations, foreign planters are permitted to transfer abroad GF 4 per kilogram of pine- GUINEA apples exported, GF 3 per kilogram of bananas exported, and GF 2 per kilogram of citrus fruit exported. Expatriate workers employed by the public sector in Guinea may transfer abroad 30 per cent of their net monthly salaries if they are married and 20 per cent if they are single. In practice, however, many expatriate workers em- ployed by the public sector are permitted to trans- fer up to 40 per cent of their net monthly salaries. Expatriate workers employed by the private sec- tor may transfer abroad 25 per cent of their net monthly salaries if married and 15 per cent if single; in practice, the transfer of 30 per cent is often permitted. The export of Guinean currency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds The Ministry of Foreign and Domestic Trade establishes an annual export program, which requires the approval of the National Economic Commission. All exports require individual licenses in order ( 1) to assure the implementation of the export program (particularly in respect of commitments under bilateral trade agreements); (2) to permit the Treasury to levy certain duties (e.g., mining companies must pay export taxes of 6 per cent on the value of ores exported); ( 3) to prevent shortages of goods needed for domestic consump- tion; and (4) to prevent the export of capital. Special authorization from designated agencies is required in addition to the export license for the following commodities: wild animals (dead or a l ive), edible animals, articles of historical or ethnographical interest, jewelry, articles made of precious metals, and plants and seeds. An export license is granted only when the exporter assumes the obligation to surrender the proceeds immedi- ately af ter they are collected. Exports other than those effected by the Fria Company are made by a state institution, Guin- export. Foreign planters are granted special trans- fer privileges related to the quantity of pineapples, bananas, or citrus fruits exported (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). All export proceeds must be surrendered; how- ever, the Fria Company and the Sifra Company are allowed to retain 66% per cent and 25 per cent, respectively, of their export earnings. 195 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds accruing to residents in respect of invisibles must be surrendered. The import of foreign banknotes and travelers checks is permitted freely, subject to declaration on entry, but both must be surrendered within 24 hours after entry. Nonresident travelers may repurchase and re-export the foreign exchange declared upon entry, after deduction of their local expenditures; this deduction cannot be less than the equivalent of US$20 for each day of their stay, unless evi- dence can be produced to show that actual expen- diture was less. The import of Guinean currency is prohibited. Capital All capital transfers require authorization. Out- ward capital transfers by Guinean nationals are prohibited. The Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 507AN/62) of April 5, 1962, which replaced a more restrictive one of May 1960, provides guar- antees against nationalization for foreign invest- ments in the industrial and mining sectors; it also provides for preferential tax and customs treat- ment applicable to foreign investments and for the transfer of profits, interest, amortization, and proceeds accruing from the liquidation of such investments. Small and medium-sized enterprises in which at least GF 150 million is invested over a 3-year period may receive exemptions for a period of 7 to 10 years; exemptions for up to 25 years may be granted on long-term investments of particular importance to the Guinean economy. The actual conditions under which foreign invest- ments may be made are subject to negotiations within the terms of this law. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Guinea for numismatic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authori- ties and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary author- ities and industrial users. Changes during 1968 January 1. The Ministry of Foreign Commerce and Banks was replaced by the Ministry of Com- merce, Transportation, and Telecommunications. The Minister of State for Financial Affairs was charged with supervision over the Central Bank of the Republic of Guinea. 196 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.444335 gram of fine gold per Guyana Dollar or G$2 = US$1. The Guyana dollar has a fixed relationship to sterling of G$4.80 = <£ 1 and is freely convertible into ster- ling at this rate, subject to banking commissions; in its dealings with commercial banks, the Bank of Guyana charges a commission of %6 of 1 per cent for both buying and selling, while the com- mercial banks' buying and selling rates for sterling are %6 of 1 per cent below and above parity, respectively. The banks in Guyana base the rates for currencies other than sterling on the current London market rates. The central bank normally deals only in sterling and U.S. dollars. Guyana accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement as from December 27, 1966. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Governor-General and the Minister of Finance, who have entrusted its administration to the Bank of Guyana. Authority for approving normal import payments and providing allocations of for- eign exchange for other current payments is dele- gated to the banks authorized for this purpose; certain payments in respect of current invisibles of a personal nature, however, require the approval of the Bank of Guyana. Import and export licensing is the responsibility of the Minis- try of Trade, Shipping, and Civil Aviation. Prescription of Currency Guyana is a member of the Sterling Area and maintains prescription of currency requirements broadly similar to those of the United Kingdom.1 Authorized settlements with residents of other parts of the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Guyana to residents of countries outside the Ster- ling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in 1 Guyana's exchange control regulations define the Sterling Area as excluding Rhodesia. any non-Sterling Area currency, in sterling to the credit of an External Account in any other part of the Sterling Area, or in Guyana dollars to the credit of an External Account in Guyana. Receipts from countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be obtained in any non- Sterling Area currency (in any specified currency2 for export proceeds) or in sterling or Guyana dollars from an External Account. Nonresident Accounts Residents of other parts of the Sterling Area may ma in ta in accounts in Guyana dollars in Guyana. These are treated in the same way as the Guyana dollar accounts of residents of Guyana; thus, no exchange control permission is required for transfers within the Sterling Area. There are two categories of accounts for persons who are not residents of Guyana or other parts of the Sterling Area: External Accounts and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts may be opened, with exchange control approval, for nonresidents of the Sterling Area. They may be credited with all authorized payments by residents of Guyana to nonresidents of the Sterling Area and with trans- fers from other External Accounts; other credits require approval. They may be debited for pay- ments for any purpose to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is in Guyana; other debits require approval. Blocked Accounts are credited with funds that are not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents (e.g., capital proceeds). These accounts may be debited for certain authorized payments, includ- ing the purchase of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited; for some goods, the prohibition is not 2 The specified currencies are listed as Aus t r ian schil- lings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche m a rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 197 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA applicable when they originate in other countries of the Caribbean Free Trade Association. Imports subject to individual licensing are specified in a "negative list"; they include coffee, sugar, certain vegetables, cereals, meat, poultry, dairy products, fats, copra, vegetable and animal oils, petroleum products and other fuels, building materials, gold, diamonds and jewelry, firearms, grain-milling machinery, and appliances. The granting of indi- vidual licenses and the conditions attached thereto depend on current policy; some goods are subject to quota while the others are licensed freely. Other goods may be imported under an open general license applicable to all countries of origin except Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslo- vakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Rumania, and the U.S.S.R.; import quotas for commodities originating in these coun- tries are based on the value of imports from them in 1964. For certain garments, the open general license is not applicable to Japan. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of the necessary documentary evidence. Exchange control forms have to be completed only for transactions exceed- ing G$240. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to other countries of the Sterling Area are permitted freely without limit. All payments for invisibles to countries out- side the Sterling Area require approval, which is given freely, provided that no illegal capital trans- fer seems to be involved. Standard allocations are applied to certain payments of a personal nature on an annual basis, e.g., for travel abroad (G$666), for education at schools abroad (G$3,360 for each ch i ld), for education at uni- versities and comparable institutions (G$4,800 for each s tuden t ), and for family maintenance (G$4,800). Travelers going abroad may take with them Guyana currency notes not exceeding G$100; these notes do not form part of any allotment of exchange for travel. In addition, Sterling Area or non-Sterling Area currency notes to the value of G$50 may be taken out as part of any travel exchange allowance. 198 Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Exports of rice may only be made by the Rice Marketing Board. Most exports are free of export license, but are supervised by the autho- rized banks and the Customs and Excise Depart- ment to ensure that the exchange proceeds are repatriated and, if obtained in specified currencies (see footnote 2 ), surrendered. Exchange control forms have to be completed only for exports exceeding G$2,000 in value. Proceeds from Invisibles Specified currencies received on account of invisibles must be sold to an authorized bank, but other currencies may be retained by the recipient. Travelers may bring in any currency notes freely. Capital Residents of the Sterling Area may freely invest in Guyana and repatriate their capital at any time in a Sterling Area currency. Nonresidents of the Sterling Area must obtain "approved status" for new investments at the time of investment in order to be able to repatriate capital. Such approval is normally given for direct investments in new projects that would benefit Guyana or the balance of payments of the Sterling Area; it carries with it an assurance that profits may be remitted and that upon liquidation of the investment the pro- ceeds, including any capital increments, may be repatriated in fu ll in non-Sterling Area currency. The export of capital to non-Sterling Area countries by residents is not normally permitted. Specified currencies obtained by residents through capital transactions must be surrendered to an authorized bank, but other currencies may be retained by the recipient. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Guyana for numismatic purposes. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not allowed without special permission to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jew- elry or coins for numismatic purposes, at home or abroad. Neither the Bank of Guyana nor any ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution other official institution purchases gold to supply domestic industry. Imports and exports of gold in f - r • A u *u \f- - * any form require licenses issued by the Ministry r rr, j o ,. . j /-i- «i A • *• i of Trade, Shipping, and Civil Aviation; such r + Changes during 1968 7 _, - ., ,A , r January 1. The import was prohibited of cer- . ,, . f . . ,, , , . tam commodities previously included in the neg- . .. „ . . .. •<* > - u T GUYANA HAITI Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.177734 gram of fine gold per Haitian Gourde or G 5.00 = US$1. This rate is applicable to all transactions. Exchange trans- actions by commercial banks with the public are subject to small bank ing commissions; those by the National Bank w i th the commercial banks and specified customers are free from such commis- sions but are subject to a stamp tax of %o of 1 per cent. Certain payments arrears have arisen recently; there are no other controls or restrictions on foreign transactions. On December 22, 1953, Haiti notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article V I I I, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency No obligations prescribing the method or cur- rency for payments to or from nonresidents are imposed. Imports and Import Payments Although the law provides for the imposition of quantitative restrictions on imports, import licenses are not required. Imports of certain types of footwear and of a few other items are controlled for other than balance of paymen ts reasons; the prior approval of the M in is try of Economy is required to withdraw these commodities from cus- toms. In principle, payments abroad may be made freely, but certain payments are in arrears. Cer- tain imports are subject, in addition to the appli- cable import du ty, to surcharges of 4, 5, or 6 per cent of the c .i .f. value. Exports and Export Proceeds A few exports require licenses. Gold coins, bullion, etc., may be exported only by the National Bank of the Republic of Haiti. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles In principle, payments for invisibles are not restricted, but certain arrears exist at present. No exchange control requirements are applied to pro- ceeds f rom invisibles. A regulation, which is sel- dom applied, prohibits the export and import of U.S. banknotes in denominations of over $20. Capital Incoming and outgoing capital payments by residents or nonresidents are not subject to exchange control. Under a decree of June 27, 1957, revising a law of August 14, 1952, private banks operating in Haiti are required to keep in the form of domestic assets up to 80 per cent of deposits collected from residents of Haiti. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Haiti for numismatic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry carried as personal effects by travelers may be made only by the National Bank. Commercial imports, how- ever, of articles containing a limited amount of gold, such as gold watches, are freely permitted and do not require an import license. Changes during 1968 No significant changes took place dur ing 1968. 200 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.444335 gram of fine gold per Honduran Lempira, or Honduran Lempiras 2.00 = US$1. The official rates are L 2.00 buy- ing, and L 2.02 selling, per US$1. Banknotes and coins in Costa Rican colones, Guatemalan quet- zales, Nicaraguan cordobas, and Salvadoran colones are purchased at parity rates minus an official exchange commission of 1 per cent and sold at parity rates. Honduras has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments. Exchange may be purchased from local banks without restric- tions; however, for statistical purposes, buyers are required to file an application stating how the exchange will be used. Earners of foreign exchange wishing to negotiate the exchange in Honduras may do so only with the Central Bank of Honduras or through the banking system for account of the Central Bank. On August 19, 1950, Honduras notified the Fund that it had assumed the obligations of Article VIII, Sec- tions, 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, begin- ning July 1, 1950. Prescription of Currency No obligations prescribing the method of cur- rency for payments to or from nonresidents are imposed. Payments to Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in Honduran lempiras through the Camara de Compensation Centro- americana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. Payments to Mexico may also be settled in Hon- duran lempiras through the clearinghouse. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for a few items. Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely; however, for statistical purposes, buyers of exchange are required to file an application stating how the exchange will be used.1 1 On March 21, 1969 an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import du ty was imposed on com- modities originating outside the Central American Com- mon Market. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports do not require licenses. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control, and the foreign exchange may be retained or used for international transactions. Those wishing to negotiate their exchange in Honduras may do so only with the Central Bank or through the banking system for account of the Central Bank. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted. Capital Capital payments are not subject to exchange control. The commercial banks and other credit institutions require the approval of the Central Bank to contract any foreign indebtedness; their short-term foreign liabilities are subject to ceilings. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Honduras for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities, industrial users, and producers of gold. All locally produced gold is exported in the form of ore for refining. Commercial imports and exports of jewelry and other articles containing gold require licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy; for most articles, these are granted freely. Changes during 1968 June 14. Restrictions were imposed on bank credit relating to imports and to the domestic distribution and consumption of imported goods. June 14. Limits were imposed on the short- term foreign indebtedness of the commercial banks. 201 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS August 5. The official buying rate for U.S. dol- lars was changed from L 1.98 per US$1 to L 2.00 per US$1. For U.S. coins, however, the „ . ,, . A . , r 1 ^o T i o d ,/ official buying rate remained L 1.98 p er US$1. September 12. Decree No. 74 imposed an inter- nal consumption tax on a wide range of consumer goods. The tax was levied at rates of 10 per cent and 20 per cent ad valorem. , _ . . . , . f December. Limits were imposed on the foreign • j i_ j r ui u .u ?i indebtedness of banks other than commercial banks, . 202 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.146631 gram of fine gold per Hong Kong Dollar or HK$6.06061 = US$1. The exchange rate system comprises official rates and free market rates; as far as rates for the U.S. dollar are concerned, these are, in practice, within 1 per cent of the par value. On Decem- ber 31, 1968, rates in the official market were Is. 4a%2d. sterling buying, and Is. 4%d. sterling selling, per HK$1, or HK$6.071%4 buying, and HK$6.1011/16 selling, per US$1; rates in the free market on that date were HK$6.10% buying, and HK$6.111 /4 selling, per US$1. The official mar- ket rates are those of authorized banks, based on the sterling-Hong Kong dollar rate (agreed informally by the three note-issuing banks with the Hong Kong Exchange Fund) and the ster- ling-foreign currency rates in the London foreign exchange market. The official rates apply to all transactions in Hong Kong dollars against sterling, to the pro- ceeds in U.S. dollars of exports not of local or neighboring origin, and to most authorized non- dollar transactions. The free market rates apply to other transactions. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Financial Secretary of the Colony. Some 50 banks are authorized to conduct exchange transactions within the framework of the local regulations and subject to specific or general approval of the local control. These authorized banks are per- mitted to conclude exchange transactions only at the official market rates. The free market is oper- ated by other banks and financial institutions. Import and export licensing is carried out by the Director of Commerce and Industry. Prescription of Currency The Colony of Hong Kong is part of the Ster- ling Area, and all settlements except those through the free market must be made by the method and in the currency prescribed in the exchange regulations, as described in the follow- ing paragraphs. Settlements for exports to and imports from other parts of the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency. Licenses are required, however, for all payments made from Hong Kong to, or received in Hong Kong from, residents of other parts of the Sterling Area, except that authorized banks may freely make or receive such payments in respect of the following: (1) bona fide trade between Hong Kong and other Sterling Area territories; (2) payments between authorized banks or their branches in the Sterling Area for the purpose of transferring banking funds to an authorized bank or for the settlement of the exchange transactions of an authorized bank; (3) bulk payments in favor of banks or recognized dealers in Hong Kong when the pay- ments are for bona fide fam i ly remittances and no individual payment exceeds HK$8,000; and (4) other payments not exceeding <£500 or the equivalent in other Sterling Area currencies. Payment in Hong Kong dollars for exports to mainland China, the Republic of China, and Macao is permitted; imports from these terri- tories may be paid for in Hong Kong dollars (but not to the credit of an External Account; see section on Nonresident Accounts, below) with- out exchange control approval. The proceeds of exports to all other countries outside the Sterling Area must be received in Hong Kong dollars from an External Account, in sterling from an External Account held with an authorized bank in the Sterling Area, in a foreign currency ema- nating from outside Hong Kong and freely exchangeable for sterling or Hong Kong dollars (the foreign currency must be surrendered to an authorized b ank ), or by international money order issued outside the Sterling Area. However, U.S. dollar proceeds of exports to the dollar area or to the Republic of Korea of goods originating in mainland China, the Republic of China, Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea, or Macao may be sold in the free market to the extent of the f.o.b. value of the goods; proceeds from freight and insurance payments have to be surrendered to an authorized bank. Payment for imports from coun- tries outside the Sterling Area (except mainland China, the Republic of China, and Macao, as noted above) may be made by crediting sterling or Hong Kong dollars to an External Account or in any foreign currency. For merchanting transactions by Hong Kong firms in goods bought from and sold to countries 203 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG outside the Sterling Area, outgoing payments may be made in a Sterling Area currency to the credit of an External Account or in any foreign currency, provided that the incoming payment is received in a Sterling Area currency from an External Account or in a foreign currency from outside Hong Kong that is freely exchangeable for sterling or Hong Kong dollars. Subject to cer- tain requirements, including the submission of evidence that the local regulations of the country of destination have been complied with, autho- rized banks may, on application by merchants in Hong Kong undertaking a transaction in goods for their own account, make payment to nonresi- dents of the Sterling Area for direct imports into other territories of the Sterling Area of goods originating outside the Sterling Area. Such pay- ments may be made in sterling or Hong Kong dollars to an External Account or in any non- Sterling Area currency, provided that such cur- rency has not been acquired in the Hong Kong free market. Nonresident Accounts The treatment of nonresident accounts distin- guishes between those of residents of other parts of the Sterling Area (their accounts being treated in the same manner as accounts of residents of Hong Kong ), those of recognized banks situated outside the Sterling Area (External Accounts), and those of other nonresidents outside the Ster- ling Area. The accounts of companies and individuals resident outside the Sterling Area are treated in the same way as the accounts of residents, except tha t, without exchange control permission, they may not be overdrawn or be debited for any pay- ment outside Hong Kong.1 The accounts of recognized banks situated out- side the Sterling Area are termed External Accounts. These may be credited with permitted payments from residents of the Sterling Area, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of foreign currencies to authorized banks. They may be debited freely, but they may not normally be overdrawn, and an order for the purchase of foreign currency may be executed only by an authorized bank. 1 Any company or private individual resident outside the Sterling Area may apply to the exchange control for special permission to open an External Account. 204 Imports and Import Payments Except for gold and certain dutiable or dan- gerous commodities, imports are free of license. If the prescription of currency requirements are fulfilled, and if related shipping documents are presented when the value of the consignment exceeds <£250, the authorized banks may freely make payments to residents of countries in the Sterling Area for imports from the Sterling Area, and to residents of other countries for individual shipments not exceeding <£ 10,000 in value from those countries.2 To make payment or establish letters of credit through an authorized bank for imports from the dollar area for local consump- tion or for re-export to mainland China, the Republic of China, or Macao, the importer must surrender to an authorized bank U.S. dollars or Canadian dollars in amounts equivalent to the value of the imports; these currencies may be purchased in the free market. Imports from main- land China, the Republic of China, or Macao are normally paid for in Hong Kong dollars (but not to the credit of an External Accoun t), and exchange control approval is not required. An exchange control form must be submitted for prior approval for payments for imports not covered by the regulations described above. These include ( 1) imports for which documents are not presented, payment is required in advance of shipment,3 and payment is not in accordance with the usual prescription of currency require- ments; (2) goods imported specifically for re-export; and (3) all imports of diamonds, ships, and boats. Payments for Invisibles Payments made through authorized banks and not exceeding £500, or the equivalent in other Sterling Area currencies, to other parts of the Sterling Area do not require approval; for larger amounts, exchange control permission is neces- sary. The authorized banks have power to approve payments to nonresidents for most invis- ibles up to certain limits (no exchange control 2 The completion of an exchange control form for imports in excess of <£ 10,000 in one shipment is required principally for reporting and checking purposes; approval is given automatically, provided that the exchange control and import control requirements have been fulfilled. 3 Prior approval is not required for advance payments if the consignment does not exceed £250 in value and the payment is not being made more than three months before shipment takes place. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution form is required when the payment does not exceed <£100 or the equ iva len t ). Payments for invisibles above these limits need the approval of the exchange control authorities, which is nor- mally granted. The basic allowance of exchange at the official rate for residents (for exchange con- trol purposes) of Hong Kong traveling to coun- tries outside the Sterling Area or beyond Macao is <£250 or the equivalent for each individual journey. Applications for exchange in excess of this allowance to cover genuine travel expenses may be made to the exchange control authorities. In any event, payments may be made freely through the free market by holders of Hong Kong dollars. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to any destination of gold, certain strategic goods, and such commodities as textiles and garments are subject to restrictive licensing; exports of many textiles and garments to specified countries are restricted in accordance with bilat- eral agreements. For exports to countries outside the Sterling Area, mainland China, the Republic of China, and Macao, the exporter must submit to the Department of Commerce and Industry, for approval, a declaration showing how the export proceeds will be collected. If payment is not being received within six months and in accordance with prescription of currency require- ments, the circumstances must be reported to the exchange control authorities. The U.S. dollar pro- ceeds of exports to the dollar area or to the Republic of Korea of goods originating in ma in- land China, the Republic of China, Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea, or Macao are freely dis- posable to the extent of the f.o.b. value of the goods; proceeds from freight and insurance pay- ments have to be surrendered to an authorized bank. The proceeds of exports must be obtained in accordance with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts exceeding ,£500, or the equivalent in other Sterling Area currencies, from other parts of the Sterling Area require permission. When freight and insurance on exports that have origi- nated in ma in land China, the Republic of China, Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea, or Macao, and that have been financed in U.S. dollars, are HONG KONG paid in Hong Kong by the exporter in sterling or in Hong Kong dollars, the exporter must surren- der the U.S. dollar proceeds of that freight and insurance at the official market rate. Other exchange receipts from invisibles need not be surrendered. Capital Licenses are required for transfers abroad of capital in currencies other than the U.S. dollar; these are granted at the official market rate only for approved purposes or, if the equivalent in U.S. dollars has been sold to an authorized exchange bank, at the discretion of the local con- trol. Exchange for the repatriation of foreign capital is normally provided at the official market rate if prior exchange control approval for the investment has been given. Transfers of capital may be made freely in Hong Kong dollars through the free marke t. However, licenses are required for all receipts from, as well as transfers to, other parts of the Sterling Area which exceed <£500 or the equivalent in other Sterling Area currencies; these licenses are granted for all bona fide transactions between Hong Kong and other parts of the Sterling Area. Gold There is a free market for gold in which non- residents who are not resident in Sterling Area countries may freely deal among themselves in bars and coins; settlements must take place in Hong Kong dollars or U.S. dollars through the free exchange market. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry, unless made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, require licenses issued by the Financial Secretary. Imports and exports of gold jewelry not consti- tu t ing the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Director of Commerce and Industry. Unless an import license has been granted, residents other than the monetary authorities are not permitted to purchase gold outside Hong Kong; export licenses are granted only for gold, other than jewelry, in transit. Resi- dents may hold gold in any form in Hong Kong but not outside. Changes during 1968 No significant changes took place during 1968. 205 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0100985 gram of fine gold per Icelandic Krona or IKr 88.00 = US$1. The official rates are IKr 87.90 buying, and IKr 88.10 selling, per US$1. Rates for other currencies are based on these rates and the dollar rates for such currencies in other countries. Rates for settle- ments through clearing accounts are fixed; the buy ing and selling rates maintained for the cur- rencies concerned by the Central Bank of Iceland d i f fer from their parities by 0.12 per cent either side for clearing sterling, or by 0.12 per cent buy- ing and 0.14 per cent selling for clearing kronur. The rate for clearing dollars is IKr 87.90 buying and IKr 88.10 selling. The authorized banks are permitted to carry out exchange transactions among themselves and to engage in arbitrage in foreign markets. Administration of Control The Ministry of Commerce, af ter consulting the Central Bank, has the u l t ima te decision on matters concerning import and export licensing and on payments for invisibles. The Central Bank of Iceland is responsible for the regulation of for- eign exchange transactions and of exchange con- trol, including capital controls, and for ensuring that all foreign exchange due to residents is sur- rendered to the authorized banks and that such exchange is disposed of as authorized. The two largest Icelandic banks, the National Bank of Ice- land and the Fisheries Bank, are the only banks, other than the Central Bank, that are authorized to deal in foreign exchange. In addition, they issue import and exchange licenses in consultation with the Ministry of Commerce. Export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency Iceland is a member of the Sterling Area. All settlements with the five countries with which Iceland ma in ta ins bilateral payments agreements must be made exclusively through clearing accounts, denominated as follows: with Ruman ia and the U.S.S.R., in Icelandic kronur; with Brazil and Hungary, in sterling; and with Eastern Ger- many, in U.S. dollars. As a general rule, exchange receipts f rom other countries must be obtained in 206 convertible currencies. In practice, settlements with countries in the dollar area are made in U.S. dollars; with countries in the Sterling Area and some other countries, in sterling; and with all other countries, in their respective currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of nonresident kronur accounts: Foreign Accounts and Special Accounts. The opening of nonresident accounts requires individual approval. Foreign Accounts may be credited with the pro- ceeds from the sale of foreign currency to autho- rized banks and with authorized payments due to nonresidents from residents. Balances on Foreign Accounts may be used for authorized payments to residents and may be converted into the currency of the country of residence of the account holder. These accounts are in practice seldom used, pay- ments for international transactions generally being made in U.S. dollars, sterling, or other con- vertible currencies. Special Accounts may be opened by agreement with an authorized bank. The most important of these accounts are those of foreign banks and for- eign insurance companies. They may be credited freely, up to certain limits, with approved pay- ments from residents. Imports and Import Payments All goods not included in the restricted list or subject to state trading (see below) may be imported freely (and, with minor exceptions, without an import license) from any country; about 91 per cent of total imports (1967 basis) is liberalized. Some 50 commodities or groups of commodities are included in the restricted list and are subject to quantitative restriction. Most of these goods are admitted, subject to individual license, under global quotas that apply to all countries with which Iceland does not maintain bilateral payments agreements.1 The remaining goods on the restricted list are admitted from the same countries on the basis of individual licenses issued on a discretionary basis ("other licens- 1 For these goods, moreover, additional licenses may be applied for outside the global quotas. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ing"). The principal items involved are gasoline, gas oil, and fuel oil; they are imported mainly from Rumania and the U.S.S.R. AH goods on the restricted list require individual licenses when imported f rom bilateral payments agreement coun- tries; licenses in this case are generally issued in accordance with bilaterally agreed quotas, but in practice they are granted freely for global quota items. Certain imports are only admitted under state trading; these include fertilizers, tobacco, alcoholic beverages, and perfumes. Imports on a collection basis with deferred payment are subject to an advance deposit of 10 per cent. Depending on the category of goods, imports under documentary credits are subject to m in imum advance deposits of 10, 25, or 50 per cent when settled in convertible currency, and to rates of 10 and 25 per cent when settled under bilateral payments agreements. Except for imports of automobiles, a fee of % of 1 per cent (mini- mum IKr 10.00) is charged as a license fee on the kronur amount of the import license when the license is issued. This fee is not charged on licenses for imports from countries with which Iceland maintains bilateral payments agreements. A fee of 90 per cent (in addition to customs duties) is charged as a license fee on the f.o.b. kronur price of passenger automobiles from all sources (30 per cent for jeep-type vehicles). Importers of goods not requiring licenses do not have to obtain a foreign exchange permit prior to shipment from abroad, provided that the purchase is payable at sight. On the other hand, the goods will not be cleared by the customs unless payment has already been made or the importer has arranged with an authorized bank for the payment. An importer may either open a letter of credit or obtain a payment certificate which enables him at any time to buy foreign exchange to pay for the goods. For imports that require individual licenses, foreign exchange is granted in accordance with the terms stipulated in the license. Payments for Invisibles No exchange license is required for govern- ment payments (such as interest and amortiza- tion on external loans, expenses of the foreign service, payments to international organizations, payments for postal, telegraphic, and telephone ICELAND services), for banking commissions, or for bank charges on foreign exchange transactions. Most other outgoing payments are licensed freely on the basis of bona fide documents. The basic allocation for tourist travel is the equivalent of IKr 17,600 a person a year and IKr 8,800 for children. Applications for exchange for repair of ships, repair of means of transport other than ships and aircraft, transactions and transfers in connection with direct insurance, and insurance business operations abroad are considered on their merits. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out up to IKr 1,500 in Icelandic banknotes and coins, in denominations not exceeding IKr 100. Nonresident travelers may re-export any foreign exchange they brought in upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All commercial exports require licenses. Exchange receipts accruing from exports must be surrendered without undue delay. Export charges of 1.4-9.25 per cent are levied on the f.o.b. value of all fish products. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered without undue delay. The owners of Icelandic ships and aircraft are, with the approval of the authorized banks, permitted to retain their foreign exchange receipts from freight, passenger tickets, or other charges, and to use them for operating purposes and for purchases of neces- sities for the homeward journey of the ship or aircraft. Icelandic insurance companies which reinsure abroad are permitted to retain foreign exchange earned from premiums and indemnities and to use it to pay reinsurance premiums, claims, and other regular expenditures of the insurance business in the country where the foreign exchange was earned. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in up to IKr 1,500 in Icelandic banknotes and coins. There are no limitations on the import of foreign banknotes and coins. Capital All investments by nonresidents in Iceland are subject to individual approval. The participation 207 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND of nonresidents in Iceland's jo int stock companies may not exceed 49 per cent, and is not allowed in the f ish ing industry. Nonresident-owned foreign capital entering in the form of foreign exchange must be surrendered. Nonresidents may be autho- rized to open nonresident accounts for these fund s, in which case their retransfer abroad may be permitted. Residents are obliged to surrender foreign exchange accruing to them on account of capital transactions and payments. Without the approval of the Government, residents may not obtain loans abroad, including loans for financing imports, for periods exceeding one year. Applica- tions for the contracting of financial credits and loans abroad for a period of less than one year are considered on their merits and approved only in exceptional circumstances. The contracting of commercial credits abroad for a period of between 3 and 12 months is also approved only in excep- tional circumstances, e.g., in connection with the import of industrial raw materials for which the production process is lengthy, the import of con- struction materials, etc. The authorities permit the use of suppliers' credit of up to 90 days, except for the financing of a number of specified imports, including motor vehicles for personal use, various household appliances, specified foods, various types of clothing, precious and semiprecious stones, watches and clocks, toys, and portland cement. Transfers of capital abroad by residents require approval, which is granted only in excep- tional cases. However, direct investment abroad for the purpose of assisting the marke t ing of Ice- landic products is normally permitted. Portfolio investment abroad by residents is prohibited. Nonresidents may acquire Icelandic securities and other assets with imported funds; the trans- fer abroad of the proceeds from the sale of these assets and securities requires authorization. Securi- ties held in Iceland by nonresidents must be regis- tered, and all transactions and operations con- cerning them are subject to licensing. The import and export of securities by residents are subject to the approval of the Central Bank. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold in Ice- land, subject to certain legal requirements. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1968 January 9. Global import quotas amounting to IKr 91 million for 1968 were announced. February 15. Law No. 3/1968 reduced import duties on a wide variety of commodities. February 28. The Icelandic krona amoun ts of the travel allocations were increased by 14 per cent; as a result, they were restored to the amounts, in terms of sterling, that existed before the November 1967 devaluations. April 21. Iceland became a fu ll contracting party to the GATT. September 1. The payments agreement with Brazil was modified. The swing credit was increased, but net debtor balances would hence- fo r th be settled semiannually in convertible currency. September 3. An import surcharge of 20 per cent and a 20 per cent tax on the purchase of for- eign exchange for travel abroad were introduced. November 12. The par value of the krona was changed from IKr 57 to IKr 88 per U.S. dollar. The 20 per cent surcharge on imports and the 20 per cent tax on the purchase of foreign exchange for travel abroad were abolished. November 29. The Icelandic krona amounts of the travel allocations were increased by 54.4 per cent; as a result, they were restored to the amounts, in terms of foreign currency, that existed before the November 1968 devaluation. 208 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.118489 gram of fine gold per Indian Rupee or Rs 7.50000 = US$1. Transac- tions in foreign exchange are conducted through authorized dealers, as follows: in sterling, at rates fixed by the Foreign Exchange Dealers Associa- tion in consultation with the Reserve Bank of India; in other currencies, at rates fixed on the basis of market conditions, subject to spot trans- actions being done at or between the London market rates for sterling against the other currency concerned. Authorized dealers are permitted to cover their requirements of non-Sterling Area cur- rencies in the London market and to cover their permitted transactions in certain cu r renc iesa against sterling, rupees, or any one of these cur- rencies, either spot or forward for periods not exceeding six months, with authorized banks in any country outside the Bilateral Account group.2 On December 31, 1968, market rates for tele- graphic transfers on London were <£ stg. 5.5605 buying, and <£ stg. 5.5280 selling, per Rs 100 and for telegraphic transfers on New York they were US$13.31 buying, and US$13.11 selling, per Rs 100. Since 1959 the Reserve Bank has issued cur- rency notes denominated in Indian rupees for circulation in the Persian Gulf area. These are known as Gulf notes or Gulf rupees. At present such Gulf notes are in circulation only in Muscat and Oman. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of India in accordance with the general policy laid down by the Government of India in consultation with the Reserve Bank. Much of the 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 A fghan i s tan, Bu lgar ia, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ger- many, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Ruman ia, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. There are also special payments arrange- men ts w i th the Sudan and the United A rab Republic for settlement of their trade w i th India in specified commod- ities on a balanced basis w i th in specified ceilings. The State T rad ing Corporation of Ind ia has an arrangement w i th the Tun is ian agency OCET for ba lanc ing purchases of specified commodities. routine work of exchange control is delegated to certain commercial banks, which act as authorized dealers permitted to buy and sell foreign exchange for specified purposes under regulations laid down by the Reserve Bank. Most applications to make direct investments in India are reviewed by the Foreign Investment Board. Prescription of Currency India is a member of the Sterling Area and has an exchange control system similar to that of the United Kingdom but adapted to suit local require- ments. For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into three groups: Sterling Area countries, Bilateral Account countries (see footnote 2 ), and the Convertible Account group (all other countries). Payments to and from Sterling Area countries may be made in sterling or any Sterling Area cur- rency, except Indian rupees, through the account of a resident of any Sterling Area country except India, or in Indian rupees through the account of a bank in any Sterling Area country except India.3 Payments to and from Bilateral Account countries must be settled in Indian rupees through the appropriate clearing account. Payments to coun- tries in the Convertible Account group may be made in rupees or any other Sterling Area cur- rency to the credit of the account of a resident of any country in this group 4 or in any listed cur- rency.5 Receipts from the Convertible Account group may be obtained in any listed currency, in rupees from the account of a bank in any country in this group, or in sterling from an External Account in the United Kingdom. 3 The prior approval of the Reserve Bank is required for all remittances to Pakistan. 4 All remittances by nationals of mainland China to any country outside India and all remittances to ma in land China by any person resident in India, whether for per- sonal or trade purposes, were stopped with effect from November 3, 1962. All payments due to ma in land China are required to be credited to blocked rupee accounts. The prior approval of the Reserve Bank is required for all remittances to Rhodesia. 5 The currencies listed for this purpose are those of Au s t r ia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark and the Faroe Islands, French Franc Area, Federal Republic of Ger- many, Italy, Japan, Netherlands Monetary Area, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and Liechtenstein, and United States and territories under U.S. sovereignty. 209 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA Nonresident Accounts The accounts of residents of Bhu tan and Nepal are treated as resident accounts.6 Accounts related to all other foreign countries are treated as non- resident accounts. The treatment of these accounts distinguishes between those of banks and of others. The accounts of banks are classified in three groups corresponding to the division of countries for prescription of currency purposes, i.e., Sterling Area Accounts, Bilateral Accounts, and Convert- ible Accounts. These accounts may be credited with payments for imports, interest, dividends, and other authorized purposes, with authorized trans- fers from the nonresident accounts of private firms or persons, with proceeds from sales of the cur- rency of the country or monetary area of the account holder, and with proceeds from sales of sterling from the appropriate nonresident sterling account in the United Kingdom. They may be debited for payments for exports and for other payments to residents of India. These accounts may also be debited for transfers to nonresident accounts of persons and firms (other than bank s ), provided that both the transferor and transferee accounts are of countries in the Sterling Area, or when the transferor account is of a country in the Convertible Account group and the transferee account is of a country either in the same group or in the Sterling Area. Transfers may be made from Convertible Accounts to other Convertible Accounts or to Sterling Area Accounts and between Sterling Area Accounts. All other entries on Sterling Area Accounts, Bilateral Accounts, and Convertible Accounts require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Nonresident accounts of private individuals or firms may be credited, without prior approval, for payment of dividends and interest on securities, shares, and deposits; refunds of amounts previ- ously debited or overcharged; proceeds of remit- tances in appropriate foreign currency or transfers from appropriate nonresident banks' rupee accounts (see section on Prescription of Currency, above); proceeds from checks issued by the Life Insurance Corporation in respect of maturity or death claims and surrendered value of policies held 6 However, residents of Nepal have to obtain their foreign exchange requirements from the Nepal Rastra Bank. 210 by nonresidents, provided that the Corporation certifies that premiums had been received in India in an approved manner and that actuarial reserves are held in India; proceeds of checks, provided that the aggregate of such credits during a month does not exceed Rs 2,000 and no individual credit is in excess of Rs 750. Where the nonresident account holder is an Indian national, maturity proceeds of all types of securities as well as sale proceeds of securities sold on the stock exchange may be freely credited to his account. Where the account holder (in the case of a joint account, any of the account holders) is a foreign national, authorized dealers may freely credit sale and maturity proceeds of all types of securities, pro- vided that the securities had been originally pur- chased either out of proceeds held in the account or by remittance from abroad, and in the case of sale proceeds, the sale was made at the stock exchange. Ordinary private nonresident accounts, as well as blocked accounts maintained by persons of Indian nationality or origin who are resident abroad with a balance of Rs 50,000 or less on October 1, 1968, may be freely debited for local payments. Other ordinary private nonresident accounts may be debited without prior approval for such items as payments for premiums on life insurance policies of the account holder or his dependents; all taxes due from the account holder in India; contributions to the National Defence Fund, the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund, or any government-sponsored charity; allowances not exceeding Rs 1,000 a month to relatives and dependents in India; investment in Indian Govern- ment securities and in units issued by the Unit Trust of India; and for checks up to Rs 1,000 a week drawn in favor of beneficiaries resident in India or in favor of the account holder while tem- porarily resident in India. For ordinary nonres- ident accounts of Indian nationals or persons of Indian origin with balances in excess of Rs 50,000, as well as blocked accounts of such persons, the holders may draw up to Rs 2,000 a week during their stay and, in addition, a lump sum of up to Rs 10,000 annually may be debited during an account holder's stay in India. Other credits and debits require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Transfers are not normally permitted from nonresident accounts of individuals or firms to nonresident accounts of banks, unless the amounts originally credited to such accounts could have been transferred abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Special regulations cover funds lodged in National Defence Remittance Scheme (Special) Accounts representing rupee proceeds of inward remittances for the account of nonresidents and rupee proceeds from sales of certificates issued under the Scheme, which expired on May 31, 1966. Balances in such accounts cannot be remitted abroad; they may, however, subject in some cases to prior approval by the Reserve Bank, be invested domestically or be used for other expenditures in India. Withdrawals from such accounts with balances of Rs 50,000 or less held by persons of Indian nationality or origin may be made freely for any payments in India. There are also blocked accounts, to which are credited capital proceeds and payments that are due to nonresidents and may not be remitted abroad. Assets in India of Indian emigrants in excess of the amount allowed to be remitted are also required to be credited to blocked accounts. Balances in blocked accounts may be placed on fixed deposit or invested in approved Indian rupee securities (including approved shares quoted on the stock exchange); the income derived from such investments can be remitted to the owner's country of residence in accordance with the special instructions issued by the Reserve Bank at the time of opening a blocked account. For Indian nationals who were granted emigration facilities prior to January 1, 1963, net income from invest- ments financed from blocked accounts is allowed to be remitted in full. No income of any kind is remittable, however, to persons who obtained emigration facilities after April 30, 1968. Imports and Import Payments Specified raw materials required by certain industries and other importers may be freely imported under an open general license. Practi- cally all other imports require individual licenses. Imports of specified commodities required by key and priority industries, including small-scale industries, and by units in other industries that had an export performance of 10 per cent or more of their production during 1967/68, are licensed upon application, on a continuing basis, provided that the licenses already issued to them have not remained unutilized beyond a certain extent. Licenses to actual users for imports of raw mate- rials, components, and spare parts are not granted wholly against free foreign exchange (except for INDIA certain exporters), but partly against tied-aid credits from particular countries. Individual licenses may be issued ad hoc, or on the basis of quotas allocated to established importers in accor- dance with their imports in a base period, to actual users on the basis of their requirements, and to registered exporters in accordance with the import content of their exports. Generally, licenses may be used to import from any country except Portu- gal, Rhodesia, South Africa, and South-West Africa; imports from these countries are pro- hibited.7 Such licenses are referred to as General Currency Area Licenses, as distinct from Spe- cific Licenses, which are issued for capital goods and other supplies against tied aid and are valid only for imports from the country or countries providing the assistance. Single Country Licenses are issued for certain imports from countries with which bilateral trade or payments agreements are in force. Licensing policy generally accords priority to foodstuffs, fertilizers, capital goods, raw materials, and other industrial requirements, while the import of other items is severely limited or prohibited. At the beginning of each financial year, an announce- ment on import control policy is made in the form of a Red Book, which gives in detail the policy for various categories of importers. The import pro- gram for the period ending March 31, 1969 con- tains a prohibited list of 260 commodities and a list of 197 items that are licensed on a "restricted basis," i.e., in amounts equal to those for which ad hoc licenses were formerly issued when the commodities concerned were considered "banned items." Licensing is in most cases on an annual basis. Licenses in excess of Rs 10,000 issued to established importers are subject to the condition that remittances must not exceed 50 per cent of the amount of the license in the first six months of the validity period of the license. This condition is not imposed on actual users, to whom licenses are issued to cover their six months' or annual require- ments. There are special procedures applicable to imports of capital goods, of heavy electrical plant, and of goods imported to fu lf i ll government con- tracts and for irrigation projects. In licensing imports of a capital nature, their essentiality, their potential for earning or saving foreign exchange, 7 The importation from Nepal of commodities originat- ing in countries other than Nepal or India also is pro- hibited. 211 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA and the availability of medium-term or long-term credits for financing such imports are taken into account. Import licenses for machine tools and other capital goods valued at Rs 750,000 or more are not granted until Indian producers have been publicly invited to supply them; licenses are only issued if offers by domestic producers are dispro- portionately expensive or unacceptable for other reasons, or when no offers are received w i th in 45 days. For certain types of steel, this policy applies to all orders of more than Rs 50,000. A special fee is levied on a voluntary basis on imports of long-staple cotton. Where a valid import license is held, the required exchange is released by an authorized bank on presentation of the exchange control copy of the license. License holders may make pay- ments by opening letters of credit or by remitting against sight drafts. Advance remittances before shipping documents can be submitted are not normally allowed; but in special cases, e.g., imports of machinery and capital goods, where deposits have to be made with overseas manufac- turers, the Reserve Bank grants special authoriza- tion for advance payment for a part of the value of the import. Certain commodities, including foodgrains and most fertilizers, are only imported by the Govern- ment or two state trading enterprises —the State Trading Corporation and the Minerals and Metals Trading Corporation. Payments for Invisibles In general, payments abroad for invisibles require approval. Foreign exchange is granted freely for a few such payments, mainly for expenses incidental to trade transactions and trans- fers of recurring contractual obligations. Premiums on insurance policies issued in foreign currency to residents may be paid in rupees or in the currency in which the policy is issued; but Indian residents are prohibited from taking out life insurance policies in foreign currencies. There are no restrictions on the remittance of profits, dividends, and interest to nonresident bene- ficiaries (except any income accruing to benefi- ciaries of the National Defence Remittance Scheme), provided that all current tax and other liabilities in India have been cleared, except where 212 such repatriation rights have been voluntarily sur- rendered. However, remittances to Indian nationals who were granted exchange facilities for emigra- tion on or after January 1, 1963 but before April 30, 1968 of dividends and interest on shares, securities, and deposits held in India require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank or are subject to any special directions given to the person con- cerned when he was granted emigration facilities; such remittances are subject to an over-all limit of Rs 20,000 a year. For persons who have been granted emigration facilities after April 30, 1968 on grounds of hardship no remittance of income is allowed. Foreign employees are permitted to make rea- sonable remittances to their own countries to pay insurance premiums, for the support of their fam- ilies, and for other expenses. Authorized dealers may allow such remittances by foreign nationals, other than nationals of Pakistan, to the extent of 50 per cent of net income, subject to a max imum of Rs 2,360 a month, or up to the foreign currency amount of the monthly average of remittances made by the person concerned during the last 12 months prior to June 6, 1966. Requests for the remittance of higher amounts are considered on their merits by the Reserve Bank. Applications for foreign exchange for travel or education abroad are considered on an individual basis; no exchange is granted for tourist travel. Travel agents and airlines and steamship com- panies are not permitted to book passages abroad for persons resident in India (other than foreign nationals temporarily resident in India) unless the traveler has been granted travel exchange by the Reserve Bank or has been specifically granted permission by the Reserve Bank to book his passage.8 The export of Indian currency notes and coins except to Nepal is, in general, prohibited. The 8 Prior permission to book passages abroad is not necessary, however, for the following: deck passengers to or from Bu rma, Ceylon, Malaysia, Singapore, Pak- istan, Persian Gulf ports, or East Afr ica; UN staff mem- bers and their fam i l ies whose tickets are purchased by or on ins truc t ions from UN agencies; staff of airline and steamer companies trave l ing on official du ty; travel between Ind ia and Pakistan by persons holding restricted travel documents issued by the High Commission for Pakistan in India or India-Pakistan passports; air travel between Mad ras /T i ruch i rapa l l i /T r ivand rum and Colombo, Ceylon; and travel between Nepal and India. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution export to Nepal of Indian currency notes in denominations of Rs 100 or higher is also pro- hibited. However, deck passengers to Burma, Malaysia, Singapore, Persian Gulf ports, and East Africa and passengers to Ceylon or Paskistan may take w i th them Rs 20 a person at any one time in Indian notes (w i th in the limit of Rs 30 for Indian and foreign currency notes combined). Residents may take out foreign notes and coins up to <£3 10s. Od. or its equivalent a person; authorized money-changers at airports and seaports are per- mitted to sell foreign currency notes up to a value of <£3 10s. Od. or its equivalent a person to all passengers, whether Indian or foreign, but not to deck passengers or travelers proceeding to Ceylon, Pakistan, Nepal, or Bhutan, or to transit passen- gers or passengers holding open-dated tickets (including return tickets) issued outside India. Travelers to Pakistan may take Pakistan rupees in notes or coins up to the equivalent of Rs 30 a person; travelers to Ceylon may take <£ 1 10s. Od. a person. Nonresidents may take out the foreign notes and coins which they declared on entry, less the amounts sold to authorized dealers in India. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for only a few items, and most commodities may be exported without a license. Most of the controlled com- modities are licensed freely to all shippers; a few may be exported through established shippers; and a few commodities are subject to export quotas. Exports of sugar are confined to sales to the United Kingdom and the United States under the Commonwealth Sugar Agreement and the U.S.- India Sugar Agreement. Exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, South Afr ica, South-West Africa, and Tibet are prohibited. Exchange control is exercised over the proceeds of exports to countries other than Bhu tan and Nepal. An exporter must declare that the fu ll export proceeds will be received and dealt with in accor- dance with the prescription of currency regulations. Foreign exchange holdings, including the pro- ceeds of exports, in most currenc ies9 must be 9 The l ist inc ludes Canad ian dollars, U.S. dollars, most Western European currencies ( inc lud ing s t e r l ing ), Dji- bouti francs, East African shillings, Hong Kong dollars, I raqi d inars, Malaysian dollars, Moroccan d irhams, Panaman ian balboas, Philippine pesos, Tunisian dinars, and V ie tnamese piastres. INDIA offered for sale against rupees to an authorized dealer, unless the holder has been authorized by the Reserve Bank to retain them, or the holdings are the balance on Ju ly 8, 1947 in a sterling account held by h im, or he is not domiciled in India and the funds do not represent the proceeds of an export. Some major exports, including tea and ju te manufactures, are subject to export duties. Exports of jute manufactures, mica, tobacco, and lac are subject to m in imum prices. Some exports receive cash assistance; they are mainly new manu- factures, such as engineering goods. The cotton textile industry receives grants-in-aid. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles in certain currencies 9 must be surrendered. The import of Indian currency notes and coins is, in general, prohibited. However, deck passen- gers from Malaysia, Singapore, Persian Gulf ports, and East Africa, and travelers from Ceylon and Pakistan, may import into India Rs 20 a person against presentation of evidence that they previ- ously had exported this amount from India. Per- sons coming to India from Burma are allowed to bring in Indian currency notes up to a value of Rs 50 for an adult and Rs 25 for a child between the ages of 12 and 18. Travelers from Nepal may bring in up to Rs 75 a person. Foreign currency notes may be brought into India without limit, provided that a declaration of the total amount brought in is made to the customs authorities upon arrival. Persons holding foreign currency notes may sell them to any authorized dealer in foreign exchange or to an authorized money- changer. Capital The inward movement of capital is practically free, except when it is to form part of an invest- ment requiring the prior approval of the Indian Government. Most applications for foreign direct investments in India are screened by the Foreign Investment Board. Banks in India may borrow freely from their branches and correspondents abroad, provided that borrowings in excess of Rs 2 million are utilized for the purchase of rupees from the Reserve Bank to finance their normal business operations in India and that they are 213 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA repaid only when the debtor bank has no out- standing borrowings in India from the Reserve Bank or any other bank. Foreign investments once admitted are eligible for the same treatment that Indian enterprises receive. Repatriation of capital owned by persons residing in Sterling Area coun- tries other than Pakistan, and by residents of Denmark, Norway, or Sweden, is authorized freely. Capital invested in approved projects after January 1, 1950 by residents of other countries, including capital appreciation on the original investment, may be repatriated at any time. The proceeds from liquidated foreign investments not eligible for repatriation are blocked (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Local borrow- ing by foreign-controlled corporate bodies is restricted. Prior permission by the Reserve Bank is required for foreign-controlled partnership firms or corporate bodies to accept appointment as agents or technical advisors. Indian nationals (including persons domiciled in India) are not normally granted any foreign exchange facilities for emigration purposes. In exceptional cases of hardship, foreign exchange may be released up to a limit of the equivalent of Rs 25,000 in one lump sum at the time of emigra- tion; the remainder of the emigrant's assets and income are blocked and no fur ther remittances, including pensions, if any, are allowed. Foreign nationals who are resident but not domiciled in India are permitted at the time of their retirement to transfer to their own country the proceeds from the sale of their investments, subject to a limit of Rs 75,000 at the time of retirement and the remainder in annual installments not exceeding Rs 20,000 per annum, provided that the shares and securities concerned are quoted on recognized stock exchanges in India; in addition, they may transfer all their current remittable assets in India. There are no restrictions on the import into India of Indian or foreign securities. The export of securities and their transfer to nonresidents require approval, as does also the sale, transfer, or other disposal of foreign securities. Persons resident in India are permitted to hold foreign securities that have been acquired in a manner not involving a breach of the Indian exchange regulations; residents, other than foreign nationals, who are private persons are not normally per- mitted to purchase securities outside India. 214 Gold In India, detailed control is exercised over the manufacture, acquisition, possession, and disposal of gold in various forms through an organization headed by a Gold Control Administrator. There is a total ban on private possession of primary gold. Although there is no ban on possession of finished articles of gold (including coins) pre- viously declared, there is restriction on their manufacture and fresh acquisition. There is no restriction on the manufacture, acquisition, dis- posal, or possession of gold ornaments, except that holdings of such ornaments (which may be of any pur i ty) above specified limits are subject to the requirement of declaration. The consump- tion of gold by industrial users is regulated through permits and authorizations. Control is exercised over the dealers and goldsmiths through a system of licensing. Gold refining has been brought under state management. The Govern- ment Mint has been licensed under the Gold Con- trol Law to accept tenders of gold for purposes of refining and conversion into standard gold bars, for which strict specifications as to fineness, weight, dimensions, and markings are prescribed. Forward trading in gold or silver is prohibited. Imports of gold in any form by residents other than the monetary authorities require special authorization from the Reserve Bank and are not normally permitted; established jewelers, however, are from time to time granted licenses to import gold for the manufacture of jewelry for export in their workshops. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry produced in India for export and jewelry consti- tuting the personal effects of a traveler are pro- hibited unless the export is made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Changes during 1968 January 1. The expired bilateral payments agreement with North Korea was put into opera- tion again for an additional two years. January 11. The export subsidy on pig iron was restored (at 10 per cent) for all exports made on or after May 2, 1967. February 7. Export duties were reduced on certain jute manufactures, including hessians and sacking, and on tea; export duties were abolished ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution for jute specialties, coir manufactures, finished leather, and certain varieties of tanned hides. February. Agreements relating to exports of Indian cotton textiles were conceded with Bene- lux, France, Italy, and the Fec&ral Republic of Germany. February 29. The budget proposals for 1968/69 contained the following measures designed to assist export promotion: ( 1) An export market devel- opment allowance in the form of a deduction for corporate tax purposes would be granted to firms other than foreign companies at the rate of 133% per cent of actual expenditures incurred for the development of export markets. ( 2) A develop- ment rebate of 35 per cent of the cost of new equipment would be extended to the manufac- turers of vegetable oil and oil cakes through the solvent extraction process, processed concentrates for cattle and poultry feeds, and processed fish and fish products. ( 3) Indian companies would be exempted from payment of tax on their entire income from dividends received from any foreign company or shares allotted in consideration of the supply of technical know-how or technical serv- ices, and on income received in the form of royal- ties, fees, etc., for the supply of such know-how and services to foreign companies. Cash assistance was increased, mainly for exports of certain engineering goods and of chem- icals with substantial export promise. Exporters would qua l ify for such additional assistance only if their exports during the period March 1, 1968 to February 28, 1969 exceeded exports during the preceding year by at least 10 per cent. April 1. A grant-in-aid was extended by the Marketing Development Fund "to the industry scheme for the subsidization of exports of cotton textiles. April 1. The import program for the period ending March 31, 1969 was announced. A pro- hibited list was introduced, which contained 260 items, including certain drugs, chemicals, and machine tools; all of these were previously on the permitted list. All firms exporting more than 10 per cent of their production during 1968/69 would be licensed up to their fu ll requirements and were allowed to purchase their import com- ponents from their preferred source of supply (except that industries not treated as priority INDIA industries could not always choose a source that required payment in free foreign exchange). A special list was introduced of 197 items that would be licensed to actual users on a "restricted basis," i.e., in amounts equal to those for which ad hoc licenses were formerly issued when the commodities concerned were "banned items." Ten specified industries were subjected to a possible loss of preferred licensing treatment as priority indus- tries should they fa il to export at least 5 per cent of their output during 1968/69. Import licenses for capital goods and machine tools valued at over Rs 750,000 would not be granted until Indian producers had been publicly invited to sup- ply them; licenses would only be issued if offers from Indian suppliers were disproportionately expensive, or unacceptable for other reasons, or when no offers were received within 45 days. For steel castings and forgings, this policy would apply to all orders valued at over Rs 50,000. Certain changes were made in the licensing procedures for priority industries. April 3. Trading in silver under ready-delivery contracts was suspended. April 5. The restrictions on the allocation of exchange for business travel and for advertising and market development were eased. Blanket per- mits for these purposes would be issued to exporters whose exports in the past year amounted to at least Rs 2.5 million for traditional goods or Rs 0.5 million for nontraditional commodities, April 15. North Korea was again included in the bilateral account group and all financial trans- actions with that country must again be conducted through nonconvertible rupee accounts. May 1. The exchange facilities for emigrants were reduced, and those obtaining an emigration allowance after April 30 would not be entitled to the transfer of pensions and other income accru- ing to them in India. May 13. Funds held by nonresidents of Indian origin in special accounts established under the National Defence Remittance Scheme were allowed to be withdrawn for the granting of loans to, or the holding of interest-bearing deposits with, pub- lic or private limited companies, provided that the rate of interest payable on such loans or deposits would not exceed 12 per cent per annum, and that the interest as well as the principal amount 215 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA would eventually be credited accounts of the Scheme. to the special June 15. The Reserve Bank of India announced details of an Export Credit (Interest Subsidy) Scheme. Commercial banks were given additional incentives to provide export credits at preferential interest rates. Export credits refinanced by the Industrial Development Bank of India were excluded from the Scheme. June 19. The export duty on certain ju te manufac tures (excluding hessians, sacking, and carpet back ing) was reduced. June 20. The per diem rates for business travel were raised to a maximum of US$45 a day for the United States and Canada and to <£ 15 a day for all other countries. August 5. Exports of aluminum and a lum inum products were freely permitted to all destinations until December 31, 1968, subject to certain con- ditions. On December 27, this policy was extended until March 31, 1970. August 31. The export duties on certain grades of lumpy iron ore were reduced. September 1. The Gold (Control) Act was promulgated. It retained the principal features of the Gold Control Regulations enforced under the Defence of India Rules, 1962, as modified by the Defence of India (Fourth Amendment) Rules, 1966. New provisions included a requirement that a licensed dealer or refiner must declare all gold articles and ornaments belonging to him, even where certain exemption limits may have been granted to the general public. September 23. Minimum export prices for ju te manufactures (carpet backing) were raised. Part of the increase had to be used by the producer for plant expansion. October 1. Debits to ordinary private nonresi- dent accounts or blocked accounts maintained by persons of Indian nationality or origin resident abroad and showing a balance of Rs 50,000 or less could be made freely for any local payments in India. Moreover, the limit on debits to ordinary nonresident accounts of persons of Indian nation- ality or origin having a balance in excess of Rs 50,000 was raised, for local payments, to Rs 2,000 a week during the account holder's stay in India; it remained at Rs 1,000 a week at other 216 times. Withdrawals up to Rs 2,000 a week could be made freely from blocked accounts of such persons for their personal expenses during their stay in India. As a new facility, a lump sum of Rs 10,000 in a ^calendar year could be drawn by such account holders from their ordinary nonresi- dent accounts or their blocked accounts during their stay in India. October 1. The rebate on export duty on tea was increased from 24 paise to 35 paise a kilo- gram and the special excise duty of 20 per cent ad valorem on tea was abolished. A subsidy scheme for replanting of tea estates was intro- duced. October 19. A system of Diplomatic Bond Store Accounts was introduced. Authorized dealers could open such accounts in the names of foreign diplomatic or trade missions in India and their personnel. They could be credited with remittances in a currency appropriate to the coun- try concerned, and they could be debited for any local disbursements. Applications for transfers abroad, however, had to be referred to the Reserve Bank. November 19. New trade arrangements were agreed with Nepal, affecting both quantitative import and export controls and the application of customs duties and excise taxes. December 1. A Foreign Investment Board was established. It would deal with all applications where the total investment in equity capital of an Indian company does not exceed Rs 20 million and foreign investment accounts for up to 40 per cent of the issued equity capital. Where invest- ment exceeds the above, clearance by the cabinet committee on foreign collaboration will be required. A subcommittee of the Board, which will include representatives of the Ministries of Industry, Finance, Company Affa irs, and the administrative ministry concerned, will deal with applications where foreign participation is not more than 25 per cent and total investment does not exceed Rs 10 million. December 1. New administrative procedures were adopted for the consideration of applications to make foreign direct investments in India, so as to reduce the number of cases in which decisions had to be taken at the cabinet level. Most of the screening would be done by the Foreign Invest- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ment Board. Permissible royalty payments were announced. December 6. The Industrial Development Bank of India announced a scheme under which, in cooperation with commercial banks, it would pro- vide term finance and guarantee facilities to indus- trial firms exporting capital goods, engineering goods, or related services on a deferred payment basis. December 7. Minimum export prices for jute manufactures (carpet backing) were raised fu r- ther. December 10. Persons of Indian nationality or origin resident abroad were permitted under cer- tain conditions to make investments in proprietor- ship or partnership firms and to engage in trading and business activities under any form of manage- ment (previously, in industrial activities only). Liquidation proceeds and profits from such activ- ities could only be credited to blocked accounts. INDIA fare in rupees in India could henceforth be sold also to travelers whose tickets had been issued against prepaid ticket advices received from abroad. December 19. The revised import licensing procedures were announced for firms planning the importation of capital goods and machine tools valued at over Rs 750,000. Applications for licenses could only be submitted if an invitation for bids from Indian suppliers had been published in the Indian Trade Journal and had not within 45 days of publication resulted in acceptable offers. Details of any offers received had to be submitted, together with the license application, within three months after the 45-day period. December 23. Balances of Rs 50,000 or less in special accounts under the National Defence Remittance Scheme, if held by persons of Indian nationality or origin, could be withdrawn for the making of any local payments. December 12. The amounts of foreign currency notes that money-changers at airports and sea- ports could sell to passengers who had paid their December 31. The licenses of the private gold refiners expired and gold refining was brought under state management. 217 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA * Exchange Rate System No par value for the Indonesian Rupiah has been established with the Fund. There are two exchange markets in both of which the exchange rates fluctuate. The principal market is the BE (Bonus Export) market through which the greater portion of trade transactions are chan- neled. It is supplied mainly from the share of export proceeds that must be sold by exporters to foreign exchange banks and from part of the foreign aid granted to Indonesia. On January 31, 1969 BE exchange was quoted at Rp 326 per US$1. On the demand side, the BE market is used for settling the greater part of private imports, all government imports and service pay- ments, most transfers associated with foreign investment, and specified invisibles. Private trad- ing of BE exchange is prohibited. The other exchange market is the DP marke t, in which Complementary Foreign Exchange (Devisa Pel- engkap) is negotiated. It is intended primarily for receipts and payments in respect of invisibles and private capital, but it may be used to pay for private imports, including those that have access to the BE marke t. On January 31, 1969 the DP market rate was Rp 401 per US$1. Bank Indo- nesia, the central bank ,2 intervenes to maintain orderly conditions in the exchange markets. In addition to the above, the following rates exist (see Table of Exchange Rates, be low). An exchange rate based on the BE rate applies to transactions of the oil companies. For administra- tive reasons it is only changed from time to time; on January 31, 1969, the rate was Rp 300 per US$1, buy ing and selling. Two additional buying rates result from a 10 per cent exchange tax on all exports other than petroleum, and from an additional exchange tax of 5 per cent levied on eight major export commodities (excluding petro- l eum ). The 10 per cent exchange tax is allocated as "ADO foreign exchange" to the regions of Indonesia, according to the port of shipment of the commodities exported. The Indonesian rupiah is not legal tender in 1 In view of a change that took place early in 1969 (see note at the end of this su rv ey ), this survey presents the position on Janua ry 31, 1969. 2 Named Bank Negara Indonesia, Un it I, prior to Janua ry 1, 1969. 218 Sabang, which is entirely outside the Indonesian exchange control system, or in West Irian (Irian B a r a t ), which is not entirely outside the Indone- sian exchange control system but has a currency of its own and has a measure of i&itonomy in respect of trade and exchange control. The exchange rate between the West Irian rupiah and the Indonesian rupiah is IBRp 1 = Rp 10. Pay- ments from West Irian to Indonesia for nontrade transactions are subject to a tax of 5 per cent; in Indonesia, the latter tax is applied to West Irian banknotes brought in by travelers, in lieu of enforcement in West Irian. The exchange rate of the West Irian rupiah in terms of currencies other than the Indonesian rupiah is IBRp 1 = US$0.10 or the equivalent for other currencies. Administration of Control The implementation of exchange and trade control is entrusted to the Bank Indonesia, the Ministry of Trade, the Ministry of Finance, authorized foreign exchange banks, and the cus- toms authorities. Exchange control is adminis- tered by the Bank Indonesia and the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized banks. Generally, pay- ments are made in convertible currencies, but settlements with countries with which Indonesia has bilateral payments arrangements are made through special clearing accounts.3 Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between resident and nonresident accounts, as the 1964 Foreign Exchange Act only recognizes foreign nationals and Indonesian nationals. There are no restric- tions on the opening by foreign nationals of accounts in Indonesia in rupiahs or foreign cur- rencies. 3 Indones ia ma in ta ins bilateral payments agreements w i th ma in land China, the Philippines, and Poland. An agreement w i th the United A rab Republic has not been imp lemen ted. B i la teral accounts are ma in ta ined w i th Pak is tan and certain East European countries pending se t t lement of balances outstanding at the time of termi- na t ion of the respective bilateral agreements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports and Import Payments There is a registry of authorized importers and an initial deposit is required for registration; reg- istration is automatically authorized for export- ers who also wish to establish themselves as importers. A f ter October 31, 1968, only Indone- sian nationals could obtain an importer's license, but certain established foreign firms have been enabled to retain their license. Import licenses are not required for goods included in the BE list. Other imports, with the exception of capital equipment constituting part of a direct foreign investment, imports by dip- lomats and foreign experts under contract to the Government, and goods priced at less than US$300 f.o.b. brought in by travelers, can be effected only after an import certificate has been submitted to a foreign exchange bank. Imports from Bulgaria, mainland China, Hungary, Rho- desia, Rumania, and South Africa are prohibited. Payments for imports from Hong Kong and Sin- gapore at the BE rate can be made only after a surveyor's report has been submitted to the for- eign exchange bank that is to open the letter of credit. Imports are classified in three lists: ( 1) the BE list, which in turn is divided into three subgroups ("very essential," "essential," and "less essential"); (2) the DP list, which is a residual list covering all permissible items not on the BE list; and (3) the "negative" list of pro- hibited imports (passenger cars with an f.o.b. value exceeding US$2,000, television sets with 21-inch or larger screens, de luxe radio-record player consoles, textiles with a batik design, cer- tain automobile tires and tubes, and foreign ciga- rettes). Aid funds may only be used to finance items included in the "very essential" and "essen- tial" subgroups of the BE list, and are usually restricted to use for purchases in the donor coun- try. All items on the BE list may be financed through either the BE or the DP market. Items on the DP list may only be financed through the DP market. Import duties are mostly calculated on the c.i.f. value of imports at a rate that is adjusted monthly in line with the BE market rate. On Jan- uary 31, 1969, that rate was Rp 325 per US$1. Import duties for goods in Category A of the BE list are paid when the goods are cleared through customs. Import charges for other BE goods have INDONESIA to be paid at the time a letter of credit is opened. Import surcharges of up to 400 per cent are applied to a number of items subject to import duty at a rate of 50 per cent or more. Excess profit levies ranging from Rp 10 to Rp 200 per U.S. dollar are applied to imports of goods com- peting with national products and to certain other items bearing low rates of import duty. An addi- tional import fee of l/2 of 1 per cent (BLLD fee) is levied on items that are subject to customs duties; it is calculated at the rate applicable for the calculation of import duty, i.e., at Rp 325 per US$1. Sales taxes of 5, 10, 20, and 50 per cent of the assumed selling price to be used by the importer are levied on most imports. A deposit of 100 per cent of the c.i.f. value must be lodged with the Bank Indonesia when a letter of credit is opened in respect of government imports. Let- ters of credit for nongovernment imports cannot be opened until the importer has purchased the foreign exchange. Exempt from the deposit requirement are imports financed with BE exchange arising from U.S. aid and also covered by a bank guarantee. Payments for Invisibles Open general licenses have been issued to the authorized banks enabling them to make pay- ments through the BE market for specified invis- ibles (e.g., those connected with imports of goods on the BE list) without further authorization. Prior approval is required for all other invisibles financed through the BE market, but payments for all invisibles may be made through the DP market without prior approval. A fee of l/2 of 1 per cent (BLLD fee) is payable on payments in respect of invisibles. Travelers may freely take out Rp 2,500 in Indonesian banknotes and any amount of foreign banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Bulgaria, mainland China, Hun- gary, Rhodesia, Ruman ia, and South Africa and exports to any destination of unprocessed or low- quality rubber are prohibited. Except for a few commodities, such as soybeans, tapioca, cassava, and corn, which may only be exported with the approval of the regional authorities, exports are permitted without license. Exports may be made 219 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA by registered private firms as well as by state trading firms. All exporters except the petroleum companies, the state trading firms, and certain foreign con- cessionaires must require their buyers to open a bank letter of credit covering the "f.o.b.-net" value of the goods to be exported. Upon ship- ment of the goods, i.e., upon receipt of the export documents by the foreign exchange bank, export- ers are credited in local currency with a certain portion, depending on the category of exports, of the full export proceeds calculated in accor- dance with the "f.o.b.-net prices"4 at the current BE rate; such prices are announced for each of the principal export commodities (other than petroleum) at regular intervals. Not included in the "f.o.b.-net price" are any amounts needed to cover normal commercial expenses, such as com- missions, rebates, and refunds. That part of the actual export proceeds in excess of the "f.o.b.-net price" is regarded as DP exchange. For the pur- pose of determining the counterpart in local cur- rency to be credited to the exporter, exports (excluding petroleum) are grouped into two cate- gories. Category A (rubber, copra, pepper, tin, coffee, palm oil, palm kernels, and tobacco leaves) is subject to an exchange tax of 10 per cent, which is allotted as "ADO exchange" to the government of the region from which the com- modities are shipped, and to an additional exchange tax of 5 per cent that accrues to the Central Government. Category B includes all other export products (except gold and silver); these are subject only to the 10 per cent exchange tax. Proceeds from petroleum exports of foreign oil companies operating within the scope of the Contract of Work Law of 1963 may be retained abroad. Rupiahs needed by those companies to cover local expenditure, such as operating costs and taxes, are exchanged at the rate of Rp 300 per US$1. Agricultural commodities produced in border regions may be exported to Malaysia and Singa- pore in exchange for specified consumer goods, capital equipment, and raw materials. In this "border crossing trade," the value of an import or export shipment must not exceed M$600. No customs duties are levied on exports. 4 These are sometimes referred to uno f f ic ia l ly as "sur- render prices." 220 Proceeds from Invisibles Services provided by Indonesian residents to foreign countries or foreign nationals must gen- erally be paid for in foreign exchange. All receipts from transactions in invisibles, including inward remittances by diplomatic missions, are settled in the DP market. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign banknotes, but only Rp 2,500 in domestic banknotes. Capital The Foreign Investment Law of Janua ry 10, 1967 provides various incentives for the partici- pation of foreign capital in Indonesian enterprises not engaged in a few specified fields of activity (including harbors, electric power, shipping, rail- roads, and commerce). The Investment Law spe- cifies a system of investment priorities; it assigns the highest priority to enterprises generating for- eign exchange, followed by those that save for- eign exchange. Enterprises that are wholly or largely operated in Indonesia as separate busi- ness units must be incorporated under Indone- sian law and must have their domicile in Indone- sia. The operation permit for foreign investment is valid for 30 years. Among the inducements offered are exemption from, or reduction in, cor- porate and dividend taxes for a certain number of years, provided that the sum involved is not less than US$2.5 million. Joint ventures by Indo- nesians and foreigners may benefit from similar tax incentives even if the investment involved is less than US$2.5 million. Other inducements include exemption from customs duties, acceler- ated depreciation allowances, and permission to offset initial losses against subsequent profits; for- eign investments with a minimum capital of US$15 million may in the initial two years receive additional benefits. Transfer of profits (a f ter taxes) is guaranteed at the BE rate, and guaran- tees are also given in respect of depreciation allowances and transfers relating to expenses con- nected with the employment of foreign persons in Indonesia. However, as long as investments benefit from tax relief, capital repatriation is not permitted. The law implicitly provides guarantees against wholesale nationalization of foreign investments. Equitable and mu tua l ly satisfactory arrangements are stipulated for resolving the issue ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of just compensation in the event of nationaliza- tion of any specific foreign investment. A special regime applies to enterprises pre- viously nationalized but now restored to the orig- inal owners. Such enterprises are allowed tax holidays for a period of three years on new capi- tal in foreign currency brought in within the con- text of rehabilitation and expansion programs. They are also allowed to transfer at the BE rate 50 per cent of their profits after taxes for a period of three years, and the fu ll amount of such profits thereafter. The transfer of proceeds from the sale of the assets of those restored enterprises which ceased operations may take place with effect from January 1, 1972 at the rate of one fifth of the said proceeds a year, with a full guarantee as to their value in foreign currency. The transfer of proceeds from the sale of assets of enterprises whose period of operation has expired or whose operations have been terminated by the Govern- ment is allowed at the rate of one fifth a year effective from the time of the sale of assets. This transfer is also guaranteed as to its value in for- eign currency. A Debt Investment Conversion Scheme (DIGS) exists for the benefit of foreign creditors INDONESIA holding nonguaranteed claims against Indonesia. Private creditors willing to accept the terms of the Scheme and prepared to make investments in Indonesia are paid in rupiahs at the prevailing BE market rate in settlement of their claims. These rupiahs are transferable to other potential investors in Indonesia, but only the original cred- itor's DIGS rupiahs may be used, in the creditor's own projects that have been approved under the Foreign Investment Law of 1967, for the pur- chase in the BE market of foreign exchange for the import of equipment, raw materials, and other commodities necessary for the establishment and operation of those projects. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold and gold coins in Indonesia. Imports of gold with BE exchange are prohibited. Import licenses are required to import gold and gold coins with DP exchange; such licenses are issued to licensed goldsmiths only, and imports are subject to an excess profit levy of Rp 25 per US$1. Exports of gold (other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler), unless made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, are prohibited. Table of Exchange Rates (as at January 31, 1969) (rupiahs per U.S. dollar) Buying 277.0 (BE Rate5 less 5% Exchange Tax and 10% ADO*) Eight major export commodities.7' 8 293.0 (BE Rate less 10% ADO*) Other export commodities (excluding petroleum). 300.0 (Oil Rate,9 Adjusted From Time to Time) Exchange receipts from oil companies. 326.0 (BE Rate, Fluctuating) Purchase of that part of export proceeds that must be surrendered to a foreign exchange bank. Capi- tal transfers associated with approved foreign in- vestment. 401.0 (DP Rate,™ Fluctuating) All receipts from invisibles, including diplomatic expenditures, and repatriated capital. Purchase of that part of export proceeds that need not be surrendered ("overprice"). Selling 300.0 (Oil Rate,9 Adjusted from Time to Time) Exchange payments by oil companies. 326.0 (BE Rate, Fluctuating) All government imports and aid imports. Imports on BE list when financed with BE exchange. In- visibles paid for with exchange granted by the Foreign Exchange Fund. 401.0 (DP Rate, ™ Fluctuating) Imports on the DP list. (This rate may also be used for imports on the BE list.) Other invisibles. 5 BE stands for "Bonus Export." 6 Exchange allotted to regions according to port of shipment of exports. 7 Coffee, copra, palm oil, palm kernels, pepper, rubber, tin, and tobacco leaves. 8 Effective export rate when there is no "overprice" (actual sales price in excess of "f.o.b.-net price") or when any proceeds received over and above the "f.o.b.-net price" are utilized to meet normal commercial expenses, such as commissions, rebates, and refunds. 9 This rate is adjusted from time to time to follow the BE rate. 10 Devisa Pelengkap, or complementary foreign ex- change. 221 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA Changes during 1968 January 6. The period of validity of BE for- eign exchange issued by the central bank was shortened from three months to three weeks. January 72. Travelers could not bring in or take out domestic banknotes in excess of Rep 2,500. January 22. The exchange rate applied prin- cipally to foreign aid transactions, henceforth called the special BE rate, instead of aid BE rate, was depreciated from Rp 140 to Rp 240 per US$1. It was to be adjusted in line with the BE market rate, and it was made applicable also to purchases of export BE whose validity period had expired. Previously, the BE/BNI rate was applicable to both aid exports and government transactions; it was seldom changed and conse- quently did not reflect the movements of the BE market rate. January 22. The DP rate was applied to expenditures by diplomatic missions; previously, these were effected at the BE/BNI rate. January 27. All import commodities were grouped in three lists: a BE list, a DP list, and a negative list of prohibited items. The BE list was divided into three subgroups: "very essential," "essential," and "less essential." January 27. Some luxury imports, including sedan cars priced at over US$2,000 f.o.b., certain radio and television sets, and certain other prod- ucts, were prohibited. longer Imports of gold no January 27. required a license. January 29. The valuation basis for the calcu- lation of import duties was raised from Rp 130 to Rp 240 per US$1. February 21. The exchange rate applicable to oil transactions was set at Rp 240 per U.S. dollar. Previously, a rate of Rp 85 per U.S. dollar was applicable to such transactions. March 25. A sales tax was introduced on most imports, at rates of 5, 10, 20, and 50 per cent of the assumed selling price to be used by the importer. April 24. Import surcharges on a great num- ber of goods were raised, for some to as much as 300 per cent and 400 per cent. 222 April 29. The BLLD fee was reduced from 1 per cent to % of 1 per cent. May 6. Imports of gold with BE exchange were prohibited. Imports of gold and gold coins with DP exchange required import licenses. May 24. The special BE rate was abolished. BE certificates also were abolished. All trading in BE exchange was channeled through the bank- ing system. BE exchange was henceforth referred to either as general BE exchange, or, if it derived from foreign aid, as credit BE or aid BE. May 27. Sales of BE exchange to importers to buy essential goods from abroad had to be nego- tiated at a price fixed by the central bank based on importers' bids. Private trading in BE exchange was generally prohibited. Authorized foreign exchange banks credited exporters in local currency at the Bourse rate and sold the BE exchange to importers who had to open letters of credit within ten days. June 1. The valuation base for the calculation of import duties was raised from Rp 240 to Rp 275 per US$1. June 6. A new Investment Act was promul- gated regulating investments with domestic capi- tal. June 17. A series of measures to cut down nonessential imports went into effect, including the abolition of import privileges of the armed forces and the introduction of a requirement of prepayment of customs duties at the time a letter, of credit was opened. The latter measure did not apply to cotton, rice, and other key imports. June 17. A few commodities were shifted from the BE import list to the DP import list. July 1. The valuation base for the calculation of import duties was raised from Rp 275 to Rp 295 per US$1. July 10. The central bank halted the sale of general BE exchange to importers in order to encourage the use of credit BE exchange. Imports of goods not in Categories A and B on the BE list had to be paid for with DP exchange. July 15. Importers of essential goods were required by the Department of Trade to provide monthly information on the transactions con- cluded by them and on their stocks of imported goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution July 31. Import charges levied on goods not included in the BE list were increased consid- erably. July 31. The central bank resumed the sale of general BE exchange, which had been halted on July 10. July 31. Letters of credit against foreign aid funds could be opened also by foreign exchange banks outside Djakarta, except for imports under credits extended by India and Japan. August 1. The valuation basis for the calcula- tion of import duties was raised from Rp 295 to Rp 300 per US$1. August J3. The use of BE exchange for imports from Singapore and Hong Kong was pro- hibited for a period of one week. August 28. The required prepayment of import and excise duty was abolished for imports of goods in Categories B and C of the BE list when financed with credit BE exchange. September 1. The valuation basis for the cal- culation of import duties was raised from Rp 300 to Rp 320 per US$1. September 5. Exemptions from import duties and sales tax on imports of capital equipment and new materials for foreign investment were to be granted only under certain conditions, mainly that the imports were financed from the import- er's own foreign exchange. September 20. Decree No. 73/Kp/9/68 sub- jected imports from Hong Kong and Singapore financed with BE exchange to strict controls by the customs authorities. Payments could be made only after the goods' arrival and after a surveyor's report had been submitted to the foreign exchange bank opening the letter of credit to confirm that the goods had arrived and had met the specifica- tions of the relevant letters of credit. September 20. Importers using BE exchange corresponding to U.S. aid were exempted from the payment of advance deposits if they were able to produce a guarantee by the bank issuing the related letter of credit. Payment was to be made after arrival of the goods. September 20. Announcement No. 17/BLLD/ EKS/68 reduced the exchange tax on exports of Category A commodities from 15 to 5 per cent of the net export proceeds. INDONESIA September 24. The surcharge on imports of sugar into regions other than Java was abolished, as was that on imports of salted fish. October 17. Imports of goods not included in the BE list could be effected only after the importer had submitted an import declaration (import certificate) to a foreign exchange bank. Exempted from this regulation were imports of capital equipment, imports by diplomats and for- eign experts under contract to the Government, gifts, and goods priced at less than US$300 f.o.b. brought in by travelers. October 17. The 50 per cent surcharge on DP imports was abolished. October 17. The import of certain types of tires was prohibited. October 31. Only Indonesian nationals could henceforth obtain an importer's license. However, certain long-established foreign companies were permitted to retain their importer's license. For- eign trading firms continued to be allowed to maintain sales offices in Indonesia but were not eligible for any privileges under the Foreign Investment Law. November 1. Commercial and development banks were permitted to grant credits up to three years, at an interest rate of 8 per cent per annum, for the purchase of aid BE to be used for imports of capital equipment under U.S. AID funds. November 1. The exchange rate applicable to transactions of the petroleum companies was raised from Rp 240 to Rp 300 per US$1. November 5. The export of unprocessed and low-quality rubber was prohibited. December 1. The valuation basis for the cal- culation of import duties was raised from Rp 320 to Rp 325 per US$1. December 3. The surcharge of 50 per cent on imports of paper for writing or printing was abol- ished. December 31. The bilateral payments agree- ment with the Netherlands was terminated; pre- viously, most settlements already took place in convertible currencies outside the "A" account. NOTE. —The following change took place early in 1969: January 16. Travelers could freely take out any amount of foreign banknotes. 223 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0117316 gram of fine gold per Iranian Rial or Rls 75.75 = US$1. The official rates are Rls 75.00 buying, and Rls 75.175 selling, per US$1. Exchange rates for other currencies quoted by the central b ank1 are based on these buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, taking into consideration the exchange rates of the quoted currencies in the international exchange markets; the commercial banks, however, are not permitted to quote buying rates of less than Rls 75.00 per US$1 or selling rates higher than Rls 76.50 per US$1. Exchange rates for currencies not quoted by the central bank are determined by the autho- rized banks on the basis of the rates against the U.S. dollar currently quoted in the international exchange markets. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Bank Markazi Iran (the central bank ). All foreign exchange transactions must take place through authorized banks. The import and export of goods is governed by regulations issued annually by the Ministry of Economy and approved by the Coun- cil of Ministers. Import policy is formulated within an over-all foreign exchange budget. For- eign trade relations with Albania, mainland China, Eastern Germany, and North Korea are under the control of the Foreign Transactions Corporation within the Ministry of Economy. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts are normally settled in sterling, U.S. dollars, or the currency of the coun- try concerned, provided that the currency is one which is quoted by the central bank. Transactions with the six countries with which Iran has bilateral payments agreements2 must be conducted through agreement accounts denom- inated in U.S. dollars. Payments to and from Pakistan and Turkey relating to visible trade 1 Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 2 Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Ruman ia, and U.S.S.R. 224 (excluding border trade, petroleum and petroleum products, and defense materials) are settled over clearing accounts maintained by the respective central banks in U.S. dollars. Proceeds from exports to India may be accepted in Indian rupees. Payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Foreign nationals are permitted to maintain accounts freely, in rials as well as in foreign cur- rencies, with the authorized banks; rial accounts may be freely used only for payments in Iran, their conversion into foreign currencies being subject to central bank approval. Foreign nationals may also maintain time deposits in foreign currencies in Iran. Foreign currency accounts of foreign nationals may be used for transfers abroad or for sales to authorized banks, provided that such funds originate abroad. Iranian nationals may freely maintain time deposits in foreign currencies in Iran; they also may freely retain, on current account with domes- tic banks, all foreign exchange they receive other than export proceeds. Imports and Import Payments All imports into Iran are subject to control by the Government. The import policy is re-examined annually, and a new Import List, effective for the next Iranian year, is published by the Ministry of Economy. The Import List distinguishes between "authorized," "unauthorized," and "prohibited" goods. "Authorized" imports, consisting of non- luxury goods which either are not produced in Iran or are produced in Iran but not in quantities suffi- cient to meet domestic requirements, are divided into two main categories: ( 1) imports for which orders may be placed without prior approval by government agencies,3 and (2) imports that are subject to prior approval by government agencies (generally the Ministry of Economy) before the import order is placed. "Unauthorized" imports include goods which have been shifted from the "authorized" list to the "unauthorized" list, as well 3 Imports of goods that are not included in the bilateral impo r t /expo rt list for countries with which Iran has bilateral payments agreements require special approval by the Ministry of Economy. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution as goods that may be permitted occasionally by the Ministry of Economy when the supply of the protected local product is considered insufficient. For "prohibited" goods, no authorizations are given; these comprise only a few items such as opium and firearms. Imports free of charge of "authorized" goods require prior approval by the Ministry of Economy and the central bank; however, permission is given for the following: imports destined for official charitable institutions or government organiza- tions; machinery, spare parts, and raw or inter- mediate materials for productive institutions, up to US$500 a shipment; and all other imports of "authorized" goods up to US$150 a shipment. Specified commodities, such as sugar, tobacco, and cigarette paper, are imported under state monopoly. Gold may be imported only by the central bank. Unless otherwise specifically authorized, pay- ment for all commercial imports must be made through the official exchange market. Payments may be made either against bills for collection or documentary letters of credit. Payments against bills for collection may be made without authori- zation for goods (mainly capital goods and raw materials) listed in the Schedule attached to Cir- cular No. 116 of August 3, 1965 (Iranian date 12.5.1344). Payments for imports of other goods required by domestic industries may also be made against bills for collection with special permission from the central bank. All other import payments must be made against documentary letters of credit. All orders for imports must be registered with the Bank Markazi Iran through an authorized bank; registration is effected against a pro forma invoice. The import of gifts is restricted to Rls 10,000 for each person a year. Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited and spe- cial regulations apply to certain commodities origi- nating in Hong Kong. At the time of registration of imports, an import registration fee of 4 per cent of the amount of an import order, calculated on the basis of Rls 75 per US$1, is collected by authorized banks. The fee is charged on all imports except those brought in under the Foreign Investments Encouragement Law. Importers must at the same time deposit with the Bank Markazi Iran, through an authorized bank, Rls 10, Rls 30, or Rls 75 (depending on the IRAN essentiality of the goods) per US$1 for goods for which payment normally must be made against a documentary letter of credit. This deposit is liable to forfeiture up to Rls 3 per US$1 in the event that any misrepresentation by the importer is subse- quently discovered but it is otherwise refundable upon presentation of the customs clearance cer- tificate after the respective goods have been cleared through customs, or if and when the order is canceled. The advance import deposit is not required for commodities which may be imported on a collection basis, whether they are in fact imported against a bill for collection or not. Authorized banks make payments for permitted imports against the presentation of shipping docu- ments. Approval of the shipping documents by the authorized banks represents approval of the for- eign exchange transfer. Almost all imports are subject to commercial profit taxes, in addition to tariffs, which are either specific or ad valorem. The ad valorem commer- cial profit tax ranges f rom 1 per cent to 225 per cent. Monopoly taxes are included in the commer- cial profit taxes. The authorities specify in the Import List the commercial profit taxes for each year. These taxes are paid to the customs before customs clearance. The clearance through cus- toms is authorized upon the presentation of shipping documents approved by the authorized banks, specifying that payment has been made or will be made, and, when required, that the special import authorization has been received from gov- ernment agencies prior to lading of goods in the country or origin. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to imports are made on the same basis as payments for those imports. Exchange is granted to merchants for insurance of imports against bills for collection; for imports covered by documentary letters of credit, insurance must be taken out in Iran. Exchange is not granted to merchants for insur- ance of Iranian exports sold f.o.b. Foreign nationals working in Iran as technical assistants and whose employment has been recognized as necessary by the Government may take out in foreign exchange about 50 per cent of their net salaries. The annual travel allowance for Iranian nationals —which is limited to US$500 or its equivalent in other currencies for travel to Europe, 225 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN the United States, or the Far East, and to US$100 for other countries except Rhodesia —may be sold by authorized banks upon presentation of the traveler's passport. For children under 12 years of age the allowances are 30 per cent of the above amounts. In addition, authorized banks may at any time sell foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$120, against a written request, to Iranian nationals for assistance to persons abroad or for other personal use without the submission of sup- porting documents, provided that the remittance is made in the form of a mail or telegraphic transfer; authorized banks charge a commission of Rls 130 on each such transfer. The US$120 facility may also be used for the purchase of travelers checks. Iranian nationals may also freely make remittances abroad from domestic current accounts in which they retain foreign currencies received from sources other than exports; balances in such accounts are freely transferable. Purchases of for- eign currency from the banks for payments in respect of noncommercial invisibles not mentioned above require licenses from the central bank. Iranian nationals leaving the country are required to pay a travel tax of Rls 10,000 for each single-voyage exit permit, except for pilgrimage travel for which the tax is Rls 3,000. Lower rates apply to family members traveling on the same passport (wife and children from 7-18 years of age), viz., Rls 750 a person for pilgrimages and Rls 2,500 a person for other travel. Iranians res- ident abroad and students studying abroad but visiting home temporarily are exempt from pay- ment of the tax; so are Iranian workers leaving the country when traveling in a group to a foreign assignment. Travelers leaving Iran may take with them Rls 3,000 in Iranian banknotes. Travelers of for- eign nationality may not export foreign currency in excess of the amount they imported less the amounts they have sold to authorized banks, as recorded in their passports; they may, however, convert rials up to the equivalent of US$50 into other currencies upon presentation of their visaed passports. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports of some commodities require licenses. A commercial profit tax is imposed on a few exports, mainly con- 226 sumer goods or raw materials. The commercial profit tax and customs duty charged at the time of import on raw materials contained in manufac- tured goods for export may be returned to the exporter after the export has taken place. Under a system of export subsidies ( that are announced sem iannua l ly ), the Ministry of Economy allows the exporter 20 per cent of the f.o.b. value of exports of manganese ore and 6l/2 per cent of the f.o.b. value of exports of lead ore. However, the actual rate paid to the exporter by the Ministry of Economy is 90 per cent of the percentages men- tioned; the remainder is put at the disposal of the Ministry of Economy to promote exports. Certain minor exports are granted incentive payments by the Center for the Promotion of Exports. The exporter must offer for surrender the for- eign exchange value of his exports, as appraised by the customs, within eight months after the goods have been exported. Authorized banks accept export proceeds only in specified currencies (see footnote 1) or, for exports to India, in Indian rupees. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be retained in a foreign currency account with an authorized bank, where they remain at the free disposal of the account holder. The import of Iranian currency by travelers to Iran is permitted in unlimited amounts. The repa- triation of Iranian banknotes through the mail is not permitted. Travelers, during their stay in Iran, may sell their exchange only to an authorized bank at the bank's buying rate. Capital Iranian nationals may retain on domestic for- eign currency accounts any capital receipts accru- ing in foreign exchange; transfers abroad from such accounts may be made freely, as may domes- tic transfers to other Iranian nationals. Transfers of capital abroad which would involve the pur- chase of foreign exchange from the banking system require the approval of the central bank; except as noted below, such approval is given only in excep- tional circumstances. In accordance with the law concerning the encouragement and protection of foreign capital ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution investment in Iran (1955) and regulations imple- men t ing the law, foreign capital invested in approved development or productive activities in indus try, mining, agriculture, or transport may be repatriated, together with net profits (in accor- dance with the provisions contained in the imple- men t ing regu la t ions), in the form of foreign exchange and/or goods. Transfers of exchange must be made at the selling rate prevailing at the date of t rans fe r. However, the central bank has the option of buying the exchange or accepting it as a deposit to be converted into rials at a rate mu tua l ly agreed upon in a separate agreement, and this rate is applicable to the funds when they are repatriated. Capital imported in the form of for- eign exchange must be in currencies acceptable to the central bank; the exchange is converted into rials at the buying rate prevailing at the date of application for conversion. The law does not set up any limit of participation with respect to the ratio of foreign to domestic investment, but the Supervisory Board encourages participation by Iranians in the proposed investment. Gold Residents may freely and without license pur- chase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm in Iran; Imports and exports of gold in any form, except jewelry constituting the personal effects of a trav- eler,4 require the prior approval of the central bank, unless the import or export is made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities; in practice, all impor ts are made by the central bank and exports are proh ib i ted. The central bank from time to time releases unworked gold to domestic jewelers and other authorized indus tr ial users. Commercial imports of articles containing a minor quantity of gold, such as watches, require licenses issued by the M in is try of Economy. Changes during 1968 January 24. A long-term trade and payments agreement was signed with Ruman ia to replace the ex is t ing paymen ts agreement; settlements were to be effected through accounts denominated in U.S. do l lars with the Ruman ian Bank for Foreign 4 Such j ew e l ry mu st have a cost of p roduc t ion equ iv- a l ent to at least one fou r th of the total va lue; the assess- ment is made by the customs. It must also meet the r equ i r em en ts set by the I r a n i an In s t i tu te of S tandards. IRAN Trade and with the Bank Markazi Iran. The agree- ment came into effect on March 21. February 15. The Bank Markazi's selling rate for the U.S. dollar was reduced from Rls 75.50 per US$1 to Rls 75.175 per US$1; selling rates for other currencies quoted by the Bank were corre- spondingly reduced. February 15. At the time of registration of imports, importers were required to pay a registra- tion fee of Rls 3 per US$1 of the amount of the import order; previously, this fee was Rl 1 per US$1. February 17. Authorized banks were permitted to issue letters of guarantee in foreign currency against receipt of security in foreign currency from foreign banks. March 20. The registration fee of Rls 3 per US$1 of the import value was replaced by an import registration fee of 4 per cent of the amount of the import order. March 20. The two charges levied on exchange sold for imports (% of 1 per cent for sanitary services and %0 of 1 per cent for the Export Promotion Fund) were eliminated. March 20. Advance import deposits were no longer required for commodities permitted to be imported under bills for collection whether or not they were so imported. Previously, the deposit requirements for such commodities were Rl 0.50 per US$1 for machinery and Rls 2 per US$1 for other goods. The deposit requirement of Rls 10 per US$1 was also eliminated for commodities (except certain types of spare par ts) imported under letters of credit but whose importation under bills for collection was permitted „ For other commodities imported under letters of credit, the deposit requirement remained unchanged for those subject to a rate of Rls 30 per US$1, while it was reduced to Rls 75 per US$1 for those pre- viously subject to a rate of Rls 75.50 per US$1. March 21. The Import/Export Regulations for the Iran ian year 1347 (March 21, 1968-March 20, 1969) came into effect. The established policy of protecting domestic industry and controlling non- essential imports was continued. Restrictions were intensified or commercial profit taxes raised on a wide range cf goods, including dairy products, grains, dyes and essences, finished wood and ply- 227 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN wood, earthenware and glassware, most iron and steel products, machine tools, and motorcycles. There was an increase in the list of import items requiring the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy. Restrictions were relaxed or commercial profit taxes were lowered on some other items, including certain oilseeds, glucose, radio and tele- vision transmission equipment, tires, and watches, clocks, and their movements. March 30. Under the facility permitting the sale of foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$120 against merely a written request, autho- rized banks were permitted to sell the exchange in the form of travelers checks also. Previously, remittances could only be made in the form of mail or telegraphic transfers. April 8. Exporters who did not have foreign exchange proceeds from exports at their disposal were permitted to settle their foreign exchange commitments from their own or other residents' foreign exchange holdings. May 12. Authorized banks were permitted to engage in forward exchange transactions with exporters and importers, with the banks' corre- spondents abroad, and, for a maximum period of three months, with the Bank Markazi Iran. The central bank began to quote forward rates for the U.S. dollar and quoted daily forward rates for certain other currencies on the basis of their forward rates against the U.S. dollar in interna- tional markets. June 22. Authorized banks were permitted to open confirmed documentary credits at their own discretion, provided that the customer made a deposit equivalent to the entire amount of the credit at the time of his request for confirmation. August 21. A comprehensive boycott was imposed on commercial and financial transactions with Rhodesia. October 19. The ban on the import of precious and semiprecious gems was lifted. 228 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ1 Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Iraqi Dinar or ID 1 = US$2.80. Transactions in the official market are carried out in any of the listed currencies2 or in Iraqi dinars through non- resident accounts in Iraq. The Central Bank of Iraq quotes official rates for the listed currencies for its transactions with authorized dealers. An exchange tax is levied on the Iraqi dinar equiva- lent of foreign exchange granted to a person who leaves Iraq or resides abroad, except on amounts transferred for the account of persons studying abroad, persons on official missions, and foreign- ers (other than those married to Iraqis). The tax is 8 per cent for the first ID 500 (with the excep- tion of certain exempted amounts; see section on Payments for Invisibles, below) and 12 per cent on amounts above ID 500 (with the same exemp- tions) granted during any calendar year. There is a small free market (mainly in banknotes) in Iranian rials and Saudi Arabian riyals. Administration of Control The Board of Administration of the Central Bank of Iraq is entrusted with all powers and responsibilities in connection with exchange con- trol; it has delegated this authority to the Foreign Exchange Committee, headed by the Governor of the Central Bank, to the Foreign Exchange Department of the Central Bank, and to the licensed dealers. Foreign exchange transactions must take place through a licensed dealer unless otherwise authorized by the Board of Administra- tion. The Directorate-General of Imports and Exports in the Ministry of Economy is the licens- ing authority for imports and exports. Prescription of Currency Settlements must be made in any of the listed currencies,2 or, under bilateral payments agree- ments,3 in dinars or pounds sterling through the appropriate clearing account. 1 In view of a change that took place on January 1, 1969 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position on that date. 2 The listed currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwe- gian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 3 Iraq has bilateral agreements with mainland China, United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia. Nonresident Accounts The opening of a nonresident account requires the approval of the exchange control authorities. Transactions permitted in convertible currencies may alternatively be settled in Iraqi dinars through nonresident accounts. Nonresident accounts are divided into ordinary nonresident accounts, which arise from transactions in respect of current pay- ments, and special nonresident accounts, which arise from transactions in respect of capital transfers. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa and all imports from Hong Kong other than certain essential goods are prohibited. Imports of 70 commodities are prohibited from all sources. There is also a list of about 100 items of com- modities whose imports are suspended. Imports of jute, sugar, tea, olive oil, certain medical supplies, automobiles, and some other commodities are a government monopoly. All private imports except those of the oil companies are licensed in accor- dance with an annual import program. Quotas are distributed by the Directorate-General of Imports and Exports in accordance with its own criteria; each category of importer is limited to specified types of commodities. Imports of consumer goods generally are more heavily restricted than those of raw materials and construction materials for indus- trial use. Some commodities may only be imported by government agencies or state trading compa- nies; other commodities may also be imported by registered private importers or by contractors who have entered into contracts with the Iraqi Govern- ment. New importers who meet the requirements may also be granted import privileges. Licenses for private imports are valid for 6 months from the date of issue and are automat- ically renewable for a similar period if a letter of credit has been opened. Licenses for imports by the Government or by official agencies are valid for 12 months from the date of issue. A tax is levied on the amount of the import licenses at the following rates: Y2 per mill for producer goods, 1 per mill for consumer goods, and 15 per cent on supplementary import licenses above an importer's annual quota. All imports subject to import duty are also subject to a surcharge of 10 per cent of the applicable customs duty. 229 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ Licensed dealers make exchange available upon presentation of the exchange control copy of the import license, except in some instances where reference has to be made to the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require permission. Exchange is usually granted for travel, educational and medical expenses abroad, freight on exports carried on a c. & f. basis, insurance premiums, royalties, etc. Exchange is not granted to mer- chants for the insurance abroad of their imports or exports. Licensed dealers are permitted to transfer up to ID 50 a month for family mainte- nance on behalf of foreign nationals resident in Iraq, provided that remittances do not exceed half of the resident's monthly income; it is necessary to refer to the exchange control authorities for amounts exceeding this limit. There is a basic travel allowance of ID 100 a calendar year for each person 18 years of age or over, of ID 50 for persons aged between 5 and 18, and of ID 25 for children 5 years of age or younger, subject to a limit of ID 200 for each passport covering more than one person. Tourist travel exchange additional to the basic allowances is subject to ad hoc approval of the Central Bank. Travelers may take out ID 5 in Iraqi currency notes and the equivalent of ID 15 in foreign cur- rency. Residents on a pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia are permitted to take out the equivalent of ID 150 in listed currencies or in Saudi Arabian riyals (ID 75 for persons over 5 and under 18 and ID 25 for children 5 years of age or younger). An exchange tax is levied on the Iraqi dinar equivalent of foreign exchange granted to a person who leaves Iraq or resides abroad, except on amounts transferred for the account of persons studying abroad, persons on official missions, and foreigners (other than those married to Iraq is). The tax is 8 per cent on the first ID 500 granted during any calendar year and 12 per cent on amounts above ID 500, with the following exemp- tions : ID 150 for persons 18 years of age or over, ID 75 for persons aged between 5 and 18, and ID 25 for children 5 years of age or younger. Travelers leaving Iraq must deposit with an authorized bank 10 per cent of the Iraqi dinar equivalent of the foreign exchange granted. The deposit is re funded upon the traveler's re turn to 230 Iraq, subject to the fulfillment of certain formal- ities. The following are exempt from the deposit requirement: officials of government, semigovern- ment, and public utility departments, certain per- sons traveling for study purposes, foreigners except non-Iraqi wives of Iraqi nationals, and persons leaving on a pilgrimage. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Hong Kong, Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa and exports of certain goods to all other countries are prohibited. The Ministry of Economy has authority to prohibit exports of agri- cultural products when supply falls short of domestic demand. All other exports are licensed freely. The re-export of such goods as cars and agricultural machinery is prohibited. Exporters must generally undertake to repa- triate their foreign exchange proceeds through a licensed dealer and to surrender them. Proceeds from exports of dates taken by sailing boats to countries of the Persian Gulf area (excluding I ran) and India are exempt from these require- ments, and some commodities may be exported on a compensation (bar ter) basis. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to a licensed dealer. Travelers may bring in foreign exchange, including currency notes, in unlimited amounts, provided that they are declared to the Iraqi customs; foreigners may re-export any unused amount. Travelers may bring in ID 5 in Iraqi notes. Capital The importation of capital of Israeli origin is prohibited. Nonresidents may import other capital freely, but they must deposit it with a licensed dealer; such deposits may be converted into local currency at the official rate, and repatriation to the country of origin is permitted. With minor exceptions, foreign companies starting operations in Iraq must use Iraqi capital to the extent of at least 51 per cent of their total capital. One half of the profits af ter income tax of foreign service com- panies (companies rendering services only, includ- ing bank ing and insurance firms) is transferable. The transfer of profits net of income tax from for- eign investments in other economic activities is ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution limited to 10 per cent per annum of the paid-up capital for trading companies, and to 20 per cent of the paid-up capital for industrial companies. These percentages are applicable for each year separately. They also apply to profits on capital resulting from the mandatory reinvestment of profits in excess of the transferable percentages. Arab capital invested in Iraq is exempt from these percentage limitations. Interest payments may be made freely, subject to administrative checking. Imports of capital from Israel are prohibited. All transfers of capital abroad by residents, whether Iraqis or foreigners, require exchange control approval. Under the Industrial Development Law (No. 31 of 1961) and the Industrial Promotion Law (No. 164 of 1964), specified enterprises in Iraq are granted partial or total exemption during the first five years of operation from income tax, stamp duties, and customs duties on their profits up to 10 per cent of paid-up capital, provided that (1) the principal work of the enterprise is done by machine; (2) all workers and employees other than essential technicians or experts are Iraqi citizens or Arabs; ( 3) the value of machinery and tools required, excluding power-generating plant exceeds ID 3,000; and (4) foreign non-Arab par- ticipation in the enterprise does not exceed 40 per cent. Similar exemptions for profits up to 5 per cent of paid-up capital are granted during the second five-year period of operation. The specified enterprises are those whose main purpose is to process raw materials into semimanufactured or finished products or to process semimanufactured products into finished products, including assem- bly. Under the Iraqization Law of June 1961, all branches of foreign firms and all foreign-owned firms (except b a n k s )4 must have a majority of equity capital held by Iraqi nationals; this law does not cover export agencies and operations requiring special skills. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in Iraq. Imports and exports of gold in any form require the approval of the Central Bank. Since 1959, the Rafidain Bank has held a monop- oly over the import and domestic distribution of 4 All commercial banks and insurance companies were nationalized on J u ly 14, 1964. IRAQ gold needed for industrial purposes; it sells gold to registered goldsmiths only, under a quota sys- tem based on their past turnover of gold. Travelers may freely bring gold into Iraq, provided that it is declared at the point of entry on a foreign exchange form. Changes during 1968 January 1. The import program for 1968 took effect. Imports (other than certain government imports and goods for industrial projects executed by foreign firms) would amount to US$336 mil- lion, which was also the initial size of the 1967 import program. January 1. In implementation of the fourth stage of the Arab Common Market Agreement, certain additional commodities were exempted from import and export restrictions in trade with the member states. January 27. A fu r ther exchange allocation for imports of the equivalent of US$14 million was announced. February 6. A tax was imposed on the amount of each import license granted after November 15, 1967, at a rate of % per mill for producer goods and 1 per mill for consumer goods. May 5. An additional foreign exchange alloca- tion of the equivalent of US$28 million was announced, of which US$ 11 million was for auto- mobiles. June 1. The swing credit under the payments agreement with the United Arab Republic was raised from LE 1.5 million to LE 1.75 million, June 20. The Ministry of Economy was empowered to grant importers supplementary licenses of up to 30 per cent of their annual quota and to levy a tax of up to 15 per cent of the amount of the additional license allocation. June 29. The ban on imports from the United Kingdom was lifted. July 24. An additional foreign exchange allo- cation of the equivalent of US$28 million was announced for capital and consumer goods. September. The prohibition on imports from the Federal Republic of Germany and the United States was lifted. The licensing of imports from the Netherlands was resumed; imports from that country had not been formally prohibited. 231 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ December. The prohibition on travel by res- idents other than government officials to destina- tions other than Arab or neighboring countries was lifted. NOTE. —The following change took place early in 1969: January 1. The import program for 1969 took effect. Imports (excluding some government imports and imports of goods for industrial proj- ects executed by foreign firms) would amount to US$420 million, with an additional allocation of US$20 million as a reserve. The public sector's role in import operations was enhanced. 232 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Irish Pound or £ Ir 1 = US$2.40. Transactions in sterling take place at par i ty. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on London market rates. Certain capital transactions involving invest- ment currency or property currency (see section on Capital, below) take place at d i f fe rent effective rates. On February 15, 1961, Ireland accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is operated by the Central Bank. Much of the authority for approving nor- mal paymen ts is delegated to commercial banks authorized for this purpose. Import licenses, where necessary, are issued by the Department of Indus try and Commerce if the goods are of an indus tr ial na ture, or by the Department of Agri- cu l ture and Fisheries if the goods are agricultural in character. Import licensing is not used for exchange control purposes. Import and export controls are administered by the Revenue Com- missioners. Prescription of Currency Ireland is a member of the Sterling Area, and paymen ts to and f rom other parts of the Sterling Area may be made freely in any Sterling Area currency; certain insurance paymen ts w i th in the Sterling Area, however, may be made in non- Sterling Area currencies. Authorized paymen ts to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in Irish pounds or sterling through an External Account or in any non- Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds. The proceeds of exports to countries out- side the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia must be received in Irish pounds or sterling through an External Account or in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds. The pro- ceeds of permitted exports to Rhodesia must be received in non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds; payments to Rhodesia are subject to special regulations. Nonresident Accounts Accounts of persons resident in other countries the Sterling Area are treated as resident of accounts. Accounts of persons resident in coun- tries outside the Sterling Area are treated as non- resident accounts and, with the exception of Rhodesian Accounts, are designated External Accounts. These may be credited with payments authorized for t rans fer to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia, with transfers f rom other External Accounts in Irish pounds or in sterling, and with the proceeds in Irish pounds of any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds sold by a resident of a coun- try outside the Sterling Area to an authorized bank in Ireland. Balances on these accounts may be t rans fe r red free ly to other External Accounts in Irish pounds or in sterling, used for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, or converted through an authorized bank in Ireland into any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Accounts held by or on behalf of residents of Rhodesia are designated Rhodesian Accounts. The opening of such accounts, and all debits and credits thereto, require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments All imports of commodities originating in Rho- desia require a special license. With this excep- tion, the import of goods into Ireland is subject to two types of administrative control. Under one type, which covers only a limited range of com- modities for protective and other nonbalance of payments purposes, imports of certain commodi- ties are subject to quan t i ta t ive restrictions which, in most cases, are on a world-wide basis.1 Indi- vidual import licenses are required for these goods and are used to limit the quan t i ty of goods imported. In addition, special quota restrictions apply to certain textiles and yarns originating in any of the 16 specified countries or territories.2 All other imports are free of import licensing. Under the other type of control, prior permission 1 Most of the rema in ing quotas are being gradually increased in accordance w i th an obligation in the Anglo- Irish Free Trade Area Agreement; the enlargements to date have been made on a global basis, although the obligation relates only to goods or ig ina t ing in the United K ingdom. 2 These are Bu lgar ia, ma in land China, Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hong Kong, Hungary, Ind ia, Japan, Macao, Malaysia, Pakistan, Poland, Rum an i a, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. 233 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND of the Central Bank is requ ired before orders may be placed for goods originating outside the Ster- ling Area, if they are not to be used in Ireland or are to be delivered more than nine months after the date of the order. For permitted imports, appropriate exchange or permission to credit Irish pounds or sterling to an External Account is granted automatically. Exchange control forms are required for import payments exceeding <£ 2,000 to countries outside the Sterling Area. Payments for Invisibles Payments to other territories of the Sterling Area are not subject to exchange control unless they are for transactions outside the Sterling Area. Payments to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area require approval. Approval to make payments for most invisibles is given by the autho- rized banks; for other invisibles, it is given by the Central Bank. For tourist travel outside the Sterling Area (other than to Rhodesia) there is a basic allow- ance for residents of the State of <£250 a person for each trip. For business travel, up to ,£1,500 is allowed for each journey. Limits are also estab- lished for allowances for education and other pur- poses. Applications for larger amounts are approved, provided that no unauthorized export of capital is involved. Not more than <£250 of a foreign currency allowance may be issued in the form of currency notes. Persons traveling to desti- nations outside the United Kingdom (other than to Rhodesia) may also take with them up to <£25 in Sterling Area currency notes. Travelers who are resident outside the Sterling Area (other than in Rhodesia) may take with them any foreign cur- rency notes that they brought into Ireland. There is no restriction on the amount of Irish or other banknotes that may be taken to the United Kingdom. Exports and Export Proceeds A system of export licensing is applied to a limited range of goods. There is a special restric- tion on the export of a number of items to Rho- desia. Exporters of goods to countries outside the Sterling Area must obtain payment for the goods w i th in sixo months of shipment, if the value of the goods exceeds <£100. When payment is received 234 in non-Sterling Area currencies, the exchange must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Exchange control forms are required for exports exceeding <£ 2,000 to countries outside the Ster- ling Area. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no specific requirements governing exchange receipts from invisibles, but if non- Sterling Area currencies are received they must be offered for sale to an authorized bank or per- mission for their retention must be obtained. Any non-Sterling Area currency held by a person after his re tu rn from a trip abroad may be retained for three months from the date he received the exchange, for use on a subsequent trip abroad. There are no limitations on the import of Irish or foreign banknotes. Capital Exchange control approval is required for all transfers of capital to countries outside the Ster- ling Area. Applications for transfer of capital at the official market rate of exchange by residents of the State emigrating to countries outside the Sterling Area (other than to Rhodesia) are approved up to a limit of <£5,000 a family. Where the total value of an emigrant's assets exceeds <£5,000, the transfer of the excess amount outside the Sterling Area is restricted for a period of four years from the emigrant's redesignation as a nonresident, i.e., from the date of departure, from Ireland. Thereafter, the assets would be treated in the same way as those of non-Sterling Area residents who had never been resident in Ireland. However, permission is given at any time after redesignation for the restricted funds to be transferred abroad through the investment cur- rency market (see below) or invested in Sterling Area securities. Applications for the transfer of resident-owned capital for purposes other than emigration are considered on their merits. There are no restrictions on the inflow of capi- tal, but purchases of unquoted Irish securities by nonresidents of the Sterling Area require approval, and the purchase of nonurban land by foreign na t iona ls in most cases requires approval by the Land Commission. Incoming capital received in non-Sterling Area currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. However, investment ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution currency, i.e., the foreign currency proceeds from the sale of non-Sterling Area securities 3 sold out- side the Sterling Area, may be fu l ly reinvested in non-Sterling Area securities, provided that the securities sold were held prior to April 7, 1965, or acquired by "switches" from securities so held, and that the investment is carried out w i th in six months f rom the date of sale through a bank, a stockbroker, or a solicitor. Where the securities sold were purchased with investment currency on or a f ter April 7, 1965, 25 per cent of the sale pro- ceeds must be surrendered at the official rate. Investment currency may be invested temporarily in certificates of deposit with up to six months to run to final ma tu r i ty, without incurring the need to comply with the 25 per cent requirement on resale, provided that the limit of six months for the holding of investment currency is not exceeded. In certain cases, the proceeds f rom the sale or liquidation of direct investments outside the Ster- ling Area are eligible for investment in non- Sterling Area securities, provided that 25 per cent of such proceeds is surrendered at the official rate. The foreign currency proceeds (referred to as property cu r rency) from the sale outside the Sterling Area of property owned by residents, mainly houses and apartments, may be used, sub- ject to individual permission, to purchase for personal use a house or apartment in a country outside the Sterling Area; payments for a t tendant expenses and improvements must also be made with property currency. Approval is normally limited to one property a fam i ly, and purchases of property currency are limited to reasonable amounts. Transactions in securities are controlled to ensure that capital is not transferred outside the Sterling Area. Dealings in Irish registered securi- ties are permitted freely between residents of the Sterling Area. Specific approval is required for 3 Non-Sterling Area securities are all securities expressed in the currency of a coun try outside the Sterling Area other than the Rhodesian pound. IRELAND all dealings in securities payable in Rhodesian pounds. Gold Dealings in gold coin and gold bullion are restricted. Permission is normally granted to resi- dents to acquire gold coins for num isma t ic pur- poses. There are no restrictions on the import of gold coin or bullion but the permission of the Central Bank is required for export. Such permis- sion is not normally granted except to indus tr ial users. Changes during 1968 January 1. A number of customs ta r i ff reduc- tions were made to implement ta r i ff concessions arising from Ireland's accession to the GATT. July ]. The th ird annual reduction in protec- tive duties on imports from the United Kingdom under the Anglo-Irish Free Trade Area Agree- ment was effected. August 22. The Motor Vehicles (Registration of Importers) Act, 1968 came into operation. Commercial imports of passenger automobiles, small buses, and commercial road vehicles could only be made by persons registered under the Act. November 25. The Government announced that Irish banks had prepared a scheme to assist exporters of Irish manufac tured goods to the U.K. market by providing funds to obviate the difficulty that U.K. importers might face in mak ing deposits of 50 per cent of the cost of Irish exports with the U .K. customs for a six-month period. The Gov- ernment indicated that it had arranged with the banks that Irish exporters would incur no liability for interest or principal under these special arrangements and that the banks would be com- pensated for the loss of interest involved direct from public funds. 235 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL1 Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.253906 gram of fine gold per Israel Pound or I£3.50 = US$1. All exchange transactions take place at rates based on the par value. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Depart- ment of Foreign Exchange Control of the Ministry of Finance, under the responsibility of the Con- troller of Foreign Exchange and in cooperation with other government agencies and is carried out through authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected in the currency and manner prescribed by the exchange control authorities. Settlements with countries with which payments agreements are in fo rce2 are usually made in U.S. dollars as an accounting unit. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents' funds are held either on foreign currency accounts or on local currency accounts. The principal type of nonresident foreign currency account is the PATACH account. A nonresident abroad may use his foreign currency account freely; when in Israel, he may convert funds held on the account into local currency at the official rate. Local currency accounts of nonresidents are of two types: (1) Registered Accounts—for pay- ments to and holdings of foreign aviation, ship- p ing, insurance, and film companies and for holdings of former residents —may be established only with special approval. Aviation, shipping, and insurance companies may freely convert at the official rate of exchange any amounts held on these accounts which are surplus to local requirements; film companies may do so under individual arrangements made with each company. Regis- 1 In view of the changes that took place early in 1969 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position on Janua ry 20, 1969. 2 Israel has bilateral payments agreements with Brazil, Bu lgar ia, Greece, Hungary, Portugal, Turkey, and Yugo- slavia. The agreement with Greece will be terminated with effect from June 30, 1969. 236 tered Account funds held by former residents may be used for investment in listed Israel securities, for purchase of real estate, for tourist expenses in Israel up to an amount of I£100 a day for the account holder and for each member of his family, for remittances of up to I<£5,000 in support of relatives who are residents of Israel, for the settle- ment of taxes payable in Israel by the owner of the account, and for donations to public and charitable institutions. Ownership of Registered Accounts may not be transferred. (2) Blocked Accounts may be used to hold funds derived from former investments that are not eligible for transfer at the official rate and funds left behind in Israel by tourists. Balances may not be transferred from one nonresident to another, but the accounts may be liquidated by purchasing foreign securities against Israel pounds and selling them abroad against for- eign exchange. Otherwise, Blocked Accounts may be used within Israel for the same purposes as Registered Accounts but no limit is placed on the amounts that may be withdrawn. Israeli citizens who are temporarily living and earning abroad may maintain foreign currency in PAMAZ accounts in Israel. Balances in such accounts may be freely used abroad. Resident Accounts in Foreign Currency Residents may maintain foreign currency deposits with authorized banks in Israel on either PAZAK or TAMAM accounts: PAZAK accounts may be held by all recipients of foreign exchange other than those to whom exchange has been allocated from domestic sources; the funds on TAMAM accounts originate mainly from restitu- tion payments and only certain categories of per- sons, such as recipients of restitution payments and servicemen of World War II receiving disability pensions, are eligible to hold these accounts. PAZAK accounts are time deposit accounts denominated in convertible currencies and earning interest at a maximum rate of 6 per cent if the account has been held for a period of one year. All foreign exchange receipts, except those derived from exchange allocations by the Ministry of Finance but including export proceeds, may be placed in PAZAK accounts. Account holders may retain funds in this manner or may exchange them ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution into local currency. As an inducement to exports, those exporters who are account holders may use foreign exchange balances in PAZAK accounts. Balances in PAZAK accounts are not negotiable between residents, but PAZAK accounts may be registered in the names of members of the imme- diate family of the account holder. TAMAM accounts are time deposit accounts in convertible currencies and bearing maximum inter- est at 4% per cent if held for one year. One third of convertible exchange receipts derived from per- sonal restitution payments and pensions, etc., of disabled soldiers who served during World War II may be credited to TAMAM accounts. The per- mitted uses of TAMAM accounts include the fol- lowing: (1) the purchase through the medium of the authorized bank holding the account of secu- rities denominated in convertible foreign currency that are registered on an official stock exchange in the United Kingdom, the United States, or certain other specified foreign countries; (2) payment of premiums on existing life insurance policies denominated in foreign currency; (3) payment of expenses in connection with travel and subsistence abroad in excess of the basic travel exchange allo- cation of the equivalent of US$375, provided that not more than the equivalent of US$1,200 per annum is drawn by the account holder and for each member of his family; (4) payment of expenses for study abroad, subject to approval by the Ministry of Education and Culture, provided that the studies being financed in this way were begun prior to February 11, 1962; and (5) pay- ment of legal expenses resulting from restitution claims. NATAD accounts are t rans fer accounts in for- eign exchange that are used mainly for transactions in foreign securities. Holders of TAMAM accounts may purchase abroad foreign securities denom- inated in convertible foreign currency and regis- tered on an official stock exchange in the country of issue. Foreign securities thus acquired may be traded freely among residents, provided that pay- ments for such securities are effected with NATAD or TAMAM funds. If the original buyer resells securities bought with TAMAM account funds for foreign currency he may deposit the proceeds in TAMAM accounts. Residents that are not holders of TAMAM accounts may deposit the foreign exchange proceeds from the sale of foreign secu- rities in NATAD accounts. Balances in NATAD ISRAEL accounts may be used to purchase further foreign securities. Imports and Import Payments A few imports are prohibited from all sources. Importers of goods listed in the Free Import Orders (about one half of total imports in 1968) need not be approved as importers by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. These goods are free of all licensing and restriction. All other imports are subject to licensing. For commodities on the Automatic Approval List (about 40 per cent of total imports), licenses are issued automatically upon application. All other permissible imports constitute the Restricted List. All individual import licenses must be countersigned by the Department of Foreign Exchange Control of the Ministry of Finance. The currency and method of payment are prescribed in each license; if a convertible currency is prescribed, payment may be made in any con- vertible currency. Six basic food products (frozen meat, milk powder, wheat, oilseeds, edible fats, and sugar) are imported exclusively by or for account of the Government of Israel. Exchange to pay for items listed in the Free Import Orders or to pay for licensed imports is granted automatically. If payment is to be made by documentary credit, the fu ll amount of foreign currency required must be purchased at the time of opening the credit; funds not transferred abroad immediately must be deposited in a special account with the Bank of Israel until transfer is made. Licenses are issued for imports of goods on con- signment, provided that the recipient of the license imports goods valued at US$250,000 within three months and undertakes to deposit 10 per cent of the value of the goods in local currency with the Bank of Israel through an authorized bank. Each license is valid only for a single commodity, and an importer cannot receive more than two such licenses a year. The approval of the Department of Foreign Exchange Control is required for all imports effected under foreign credits. Payments for Invisibles Most payments abroad for invisibles require individual licenses. Each resident is allowed exchange equivalent to US$3O-250, which is obtainable on demand, for certain purposes such as the purchase of books, membership dues, and 237 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL registration in a university. For tourist travel abroad, there is an exchange allowance equivalent to US$375 a traveler for each journey. The allow- ance is US$500 if not more than one journey is made during a period of two years. Not more than I .£100 in Israel banknotes may be taken out by travelers. Foreign tourists leaving Israel are per- mitted to repurchase through authorized dealers part of the same foreign currency they previously exchanged into Israel pounds, but not more than the equivalent of I<£105. Residents traveling abroad must pay a travel tax; for travel by sea, the tax is I<£255 plus 7.5 per cent of the price of the ticket, and for travel by air, I<£290 plus 7.5 per cent of the price of the ticket. Exporters doing more than US$100,000 of export business a year are exempt from travel tax on business trips. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports do not require licenses if paid for in freely convertible currencies. For some com- modities, however, export licensing is retained for the purpose of quality control. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry maintains a check on export transactions with a low value-added content which are made with bilateral partners: this is done to discourage switch transactions. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be surrendered or held on a PAZAK account. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from invisibles must, in general, be surrendered. Alternatively, they may be kept in foreign exchange on PAZAK accounts, balances on which may be exchanged into Israel currency at any time or used to make authorized payments. Any resident is free to accept specified convertible currencies from tourists in payment for services and commodities other than commercial exports and real estate. One third of the foreign exchange received by residents of Israel as restitution payments, and as pensions by disabled soldiers who served in World War II, may be retained in TAMAM accounts. For ten years af ter entering Israel, new immi- grants are exempt from surrendering their foreign exchange to the Treasury, and they may keep these currencies with authorized banks in Israel or with banks abroad. 238 Tourists visiting Israel are expected to bring with them the amounts of foreign currency that they will need during their stay. Not more than !<£ 100 in Israel banknotes may be brought in by travelers. Tourists and others visiting Israel who are holders of Registered Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above) may draw upon such accounts to the extent of I .£100 a day for themselves and the same amount for each member of their families; if they are holders of Blocked Accounts, they may draw on these without limit. Capital Foreign exchange representing incoming capital and belonging to a resident has to be surrendered at the official rate or held in a PAZAK account. Capital brought into Israel for the purpose of investment may, subject to approval, be granted preferential treatment in accordance with the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments of August 16, 1959, which, inter alia, permits a non- resident who has made an "approved" investment in foreign currency to transfer all his profits abroad in the same currency at the official rate. Repayment and amortization of capital may also be transferred on the following terms: if the investment has been kept for less than five years, the capital may be withdrawn in five equal installments; if the invest- ment has been kept for more than five years, it may be withdrawn immediately. Current policy is to grant "approved" status only to enterprises in selected fields of production that fulfill one of the following conditions: ( 1) that they are established in "priority areas"; (2) that they are export- oriented, i.e., either at least 50 per cent of output is exported or existing productive capacity is increased by at least 50 per cent while at least 50 per cent of the additional output is exported; or ( 3) that although for economic reasons the enter- prise cannot be established in a priority area, its production is of the import-substitution type. There is no longer any difference between an "approved investment" and any other investment made by a nonresident in foreign currency insofar as his rights to transfer abroad the principal or the interest or profits on his investment are concerned. The difference does still exist as regards other benefits, such as income tax concessions and grants. Every investment in real estate, debentures registered at the stock exchange, or shares that was ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution made in Israel after May 15, 1948 in foreign cur- rency that was converted into Israel pounds as the law required, or that was made in Israel pounds derived from the conversion of foreign currency, or in State of Israel bonds that may be used for investment purposes upon maturity, entitles the nonresident or immigrant concerned (providing in the latter case that the investment was implemented before his settling permanently in Israel) to transfer abroad the proceeds of the liquidation of his investment by purchasing foreign currency at the official exchange rate. (For immi- grants, this right is limited to the first ten years of their residence in Israel.) As regards income from such investments (including profits distributed in the form of bonus shares), this principle applies only to securities registered at the stock exchange or to income credited to a blocked account in the name of the beneficiary after January 1, 1968. In respect of investments made by nonresidents to which the above principle does not apply —either as regards the principal or earnings —the proceeds of liquidation and the earnings must be credited to a Blocked Account. An investment made from monies in a Registered Account, or from amounts which the owner was legally obliged from the out- set to deposit in a Registered Account, can only be liquidated by crediting the proceeds and the income to a Registered Account. Normally, the Registered Account must be credited with every right accruing in Israel to a foreign resident, sub- ject to the approval of the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Proceeds accruing from the repatriation or liquidation of foreign assets held by residents are treated in the same way as proceeds from invis- ibles. Any resident may retain property abroad, but not money, securities, or the income from property; new immigrants may retain liquid assets as well. Transfers abroad of a capital nature by residents other than new immigrants are generally not permitted. Owners of TAMAM deposits are entitled to purchase foreign securities registered at certain stock exchanges abroad. Foreign securities pur- chased to the debit of a TAMAM deposit can be sold abroad by their owners, or in Israel against foreign currency to owners of other TAMAM or NATAD deposits. The proceeds of the sale can then be credited to the TAMAM account pre- viously debited with the purchase. The owner of ISRAEL foreign securities bought through TAMAM or NATAD accounts is allowed to sell them also against Israel pounds, and the purchaser in his tu rn may sell them either against Israel pounds or against foreign currency (abroad or to holders of TAMAM or NATAD deposits); he is entitled to deposit the foreign currency proceeds in a NATAD account. This is how NATAD accounts come into being. The holder of a NATAD account may draw on it to purchase foreign securities abroad, or to pay to a holder of a TAMAM or NATAD account foreign currency for foreign securities. It is also permissible to purchase gold from monies in TAMAM and NATAD accounts, the procedure being the same. The acquisition of real estate in Israel by a nonresident requires the prior approval of the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Gold Residents, including private persons, may freely hold gold in any form either in Israel or abroad; purchases by private persons must be financed out of TAMAM or NATAD accounts, except for pur- chases of jewelry and articles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold, such as watches. It is forbidden to trade in gold, to transfer it from place to place, or to take it out of Israel. Gold can be sold only to an authorized dealer and can be bought only from an authorized dealer. Imports of gold are permissible only if an import license is obtained. Changes during 1968 On various dates during the year import restric- tions were fur ther relaxed by the addition of com- modities to the Free Import Orders or the Auto- matic Approval List and by deletion of com- modities from the list of prohibited imports. February 9. It was announced that purchases of foreign securities by Israeli residents would be restricted to those securities listed on the London, New York, or Zurich stock exchanges. February 15. Regulations were issued regu- larizing the import of goods from Jordan to the West Bank. February 19. Certain administrative changes were made in the exchange and trade controls 239 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL applicable to the West Bank, the Gaza Strip and Northern Sinai, Southern Sinai, and the Golan Heights. March 17. The system of approved importers was terminated. Intending importers were only required to apply for an identifying number. May 30. The exchange allowance for tourism abroad was increased from US$350 to US$375 a person a trip. Persons making only one trip in a period of two years could instead obtain an allow- ance of US$500. May 30. Nonresident Israeli citizens on a visit to Israel could repurchase and take out the equiv- alent in foreign currency of US$375. Previously, nonresident Israeli citizens were not allowed to take out foreign currency, and the limit was US$300 for all other visitors to Israel. May 30. Any resident could freely obtain for- eign exchange up to US$100 annually for paying dues of foreign clubs and associations, and the same amount annually for subscriptions to foreign newspapers. June 19. The amount up to which Registered Accounts could be drawn on for remittances in support of resident relatives was raised from I<£2 ,500 to l<£5 ,000. June 23. Provided that the original investment had been made at the official rate, foreign investors were permitted to repatriate capital and profits at the official rate of exchange; this permission also applied to the sales proceeds of securities (includ- ing unlisted shares) and real estate. Previously, only capital and profits of approved direct invest- ments and the sales proceeds of shares listed on the Tel Aviv stock exchange could be repatriated at the official rate, while other capital proceeds and profits were only transferable if the transfer was financed from a NATAD account. June 23. New immigrants leaving Israel per- manently could transfer abroad, at the official rate, the amount of foreign exchange they had con- verted into Israel pounds within ten years of their arrival. Previously, this right was limited to amounts converted within three years of arrival, and the foreign exchange had to be obtained from TAMAM or NATAD accounts. June 23. Nonresidents purchasing certain real estate in Israel (i.e., one apartment or a plot on 240 which a residential house for one family would be built) could obtain a local mortgage for up to 70 per cent of the purchase price and were per- mitted to service the mortgage from rents accruing in Israel. Previously, the full amount had to be settled by the sale of foreign exchange at the offi- cial rate. October 1. Import duties on some 400 com- modities were reduced by 10-16 per cent. October 18. It was announced that the purchase by Israeli residents of foreign securities listed on a stock exchange in any one of a large number of countries would henceforth be permitted. These countries were Austria, Australia, Belgium, Can- ada, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Switzerland, South Africa, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Pre- viously, these purchases had been restricted to securities listed on the stock exchanges of London, New York, and Zurich. December 9. The bilateral payments agreement with Ghana was terminated. NOTE. —The following changes took place early in 1969: January 1. Import duties on some 600 lib- eralized industrial commodities were reduced by 10-30 per cent. A large number of items were removed from the list of prohibited imports or added to the Free Import Orders or the Automatic Approval List. Import duties on most of the newly liberalized goods were raised. January 1. The special export incentive pay- ments for woolen textiles and cotton cloth were reduced by 10 per cent. The export incentives granted on plywood and dried vegetables were also reduced. January 3. The bilateral payments agreement with Poland was terminated. January 20. Any resident was permitted to accept payment in specified foreign currencies (listed as convertible currencies by the Bank of Israel) from nonresident travelers in Israel for goods and services (except commercial exports and real estate) supplied to such travelers. Foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL currency so acquired must be presented by the recipient to an authorized bank either for credit to a PAZAK account or for conversion into Israel pounds. January 20. Nonresident travelers leaving Israel could reconvert, without presentation of documents, Israel pounds up to the equivalent of US$30. Previously, they could reconvert Israel pounds equivalent to US$300, subject to presen- tation of documents. January 20. All licenses authorizing registered exchange dealers to negotiate foreign currency were revoked. Henceforth, the conversion of for- eign notes and coins into Israeli notes and coins, and vice versa, could only be effected by autho- rized banks. 241 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.00142187 gram of fine gold per Italian Lira or Lit 625.00 = US$1. Market rates for spot exchange transactions in U.S. dol- lars are maintained between official limits of Lit 620.50 buying, and Lit 629.50 selling, per US$1. Market rates for certain other currencies l vary between limits which result from combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Italy and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. The monetary authorities do not at present intervene in the for- ward exchange market; forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Authorized banks are allowed to engage in spot exchange transactions in any currencies, and in forward exchange transactions up to 360 days in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and externally convertible European currencies, when dealing with other banks, or up to 180 days when dealing with nonbanks. The permissible amount of for- ward transactions against lire is subject to a limit set individually for each bank. Forward cover is freely permitted only for commercial transactions; cover in respect of financial transactions requires authorization. Transactions in foreign banknotes take place at freely negotiated rates. Italy accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the Italian Exchange Office (Vfficio Italiano del Cambi) on the basis of instructions issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. All sales and pur- chases of exchange pass through banks authorized for this purpose. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Finance at the request of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Certain imports and exports require the prior visa of the National Foreign Trade Institute. Issues of securities by nonresidents require the 1 These currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian (Luxembou rg) francs, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs, which cur- rencies are referred to in this survey as ex terna l ly con- vertible European currencies, and Canadian dollars. 242 prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and are subject to the rules governing the issuing in Italy of Italian securities. Payments to and from the Republic of San Marino or Vatican City are not subject to exchange control. Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries must nor- mally be made in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, or externally convertible European currencies, or in lire on Foreign Accounts. Special arrangements are applicable under debt liquidation agreements with Turkey, the United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia. Nonresident Accounts The main types of accounts in Italian lire which nonresidents are allowed to maintain with author- ized banks in Italy are Foreign Accounts and Capital Accounts. The use of these accounts, and of Special Accounts for certain investments, is described below. 1. Foreign Accounts may be credited with transfers from other Foreign Accounts, from Capital Accounts, and from Special Accounts Under Law No. 43, with authorized current and capital payments, with payments for approved investments abroad by residents of Italy, and with the proceeds from sales of U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and externally convertible European cur- rencies. They may be debited for purchases of any of these currencies, for transfers to any other For- eign Account, Capital Account, or Special Account Under Law No. 43, for payments to residents of Italy for current and capital trans- actions, for payments due to residents of Italy on account of their disinvestments abroad, and for drawings in cash by the holder of the account or his delegates. 2. Capital Accounts may be credited with trans- fers from Foreign Accounts, from Special Accounts Under Law No. 43, and from other Capital Accounts, with Italian banknotes (in denomina- tions other than Lit 50,000 or Lit 100,000) sent to Italy by banks abroad, and with the proceeds from the liquidation of foreign investments in Italy not made under the provisions of Law No. 211 of March 2, 1948 or Law No. 43 of February 7, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1956 (see below). They may be debited for transfers to any other Capital Account or to Foreign Accounts, and for the purchase of invest- ments not made under Law No. 43, including purchases of personal property or real estate in Italy. 3. Special Accounts Under Law No. 43 of February 7, 1956 are accounts in the names of nonresidents who have invested in Italy converti- ble currencies or externally convertible European currencies in accordance with the above-mentioned law. These accounts may be credited with the countervalue of convertible currencies sold in Italy, with transfers from Foreign Accounts or from other Special Accounts, and with the pro- ceeds from sales of investments that have been made in accordance with Law No. 43. They may be debited for purchases of the same currency that was originally sold and for investments in Italy, and balances on them may be transferred to Foreign Accounts, Capital Accounts, or to any other Special Account Under Law No. 43. Nonresidents may also maintain Foreign Accounts in foreign currencies. Imports and Import Payments All imports of Rhodesian origin are prohibited. Practically all imports from other countries except Japan, mainland China, North Viet-Nam, and the CMEA countries are free of quan t i ta t ive restric- tion; all goods, however, require either a bank certificate for submission to the customs authori- ties or a license issued by the Ministry of Finance at the request of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Commodities that still require individual licenses when imported from these other countries are included in a negative list (Tabella A Import) 2 which includes goods listed under some 26 tariff headings or their parts. Some items in the list require an import license only when originating in Israel or Yugoslavia. The general permission to import goods not included in the Tabella A Import applies to Somalia, the United Arab Re- public, and Yugoslavia only if the goods both originate in and are shipped direct from the 2 Tabella A Import applies to all countries except A lban ia, Bu lgar ia, ma in land China, Czechoslovakia, East- ern Germany, Hungary, Japan, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Ruman ia, ILS.S.R., and Nor th Viet-Nam. ITALY country concerned; in addition, in respect of imports from the United Arab Republic, the payee must reside in that country or in one of the European OECD countries. A more extensive negative list (Tabella B Import) contains those commodities which require an individual license when originating in and imported from Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hun- gary, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Rumania, the U.S.S.R., or North Viet-Nam. The list includes some 110 tariff items or subitems related to agri- cultural products and foods tuffs, and about 840 tar iff items or subitems related to other goods. There is a special list of commodities whose importation is unilaterally and de facto liberalized when they both originate in and are shipped from Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ger- many, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, or the U.S.S.R. A similar list exists for mainland China. A separate negative list applies to Japan indi- cating the goods (listed under 104 tariff items or their parts) that are subject to restrictive import licensing when imported from that country; 80 of these 104 items are included in a special list of commodities for which import licenses are issued freely. All other goods of Japanese origin may be imported freely without an individual license, irrespective of the country from which they are shipped. Imports from non-EEC countries of most prod- ucts covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC (including cereals, rice, pork, eggs, and poultry mea t) are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EEC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EEC countries of beef, veal, dairy products, olive oil, most other oils and fats, sugar, and specified f ru i ts and vegetables. For imports not exceeding Lit 1 million in value, no exchange control form is required; for imports from Lit 1 million to Lit 2 million in value, a form completed by the importer is required; for imports over Lit 2 million in value, an import document completed by an authorized bank is required. The importer must choose an authorized bank as his bank of domicile, through which he must carry out all payments operations related to his import transactions if settlement takes place more than 360 days after importation. 243 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY For all authorized imports, the authorized banks provide exchange or permit payment in Italian lire to a nonresident account, provided that appropriate payment terms are observed (see section on Capital, be low). International postal money orders may be used to pay for imports not exceeding Lit 1 million in value, or any lower amount within the limits established for each country to which this service is provided; amounts in excess of Lit 1 million must be approved by the representative of the Italian Exchange Office at the branch of the Bank of Italy having juris- diction for the area concerned. Payments for Invisibles In principle, payments abroad for invisibles require licenses issued by the exchange control authorities. Under general authorization, however, the authorized banks may sell foreign exchange freely, provided that the necessary documents are submitted. Exchange is granted freely for remit- tances of earnings on investments. Residents may use international postal money orders for financial payments in the currency and within the limits established for each country; for payments exceed- ing Lit 1 million, however, prior authorization is required by the representative of the Italian Exchange Office at the branch of the Bank of Italy having jurisdiction for the area concerned. Certain transactions (but not the related pay- ments) in respect of services are subject to approval by the Ministry of Foreign Trade or the Ministry of Industry. These transactions can be divided into two groups: ( 1) contracts which require a permit if they involve residents of speci- fied coun t r ies3 and (2) contracts which require a permit regardless of the nationality of the non- residents involved. The first group includes trans- actions giving rise to expenditures for chartering ships (excluding charters for a single t r ip ); repairs to ships which are not urgent and not necessary for safety of operation; news agencies and news- paper correspondents ( for amounts exceeding Lit 5 million a month for the same payee ); pur- chase of publication rights, information agencies, etc. (for amounts exceeding Lit 5 million per 3 Albania, Bhutan, Bulgaria, Cambodia, mainland China (including Mongolia), Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Rumania, U.S.S.R., North Viet-Nam, and (on ly for chartering ships) Yugoslavia. 244 con trac t); copyrights (for amounts exceeding Lit 5 million a year per con trac t); services of pro- fessional workers and company managers (for amounts exceeding Lit 5 m i l l ion); and services of entertainers and athletes ( for amounts exceeding Lit 5 million). The second group includes trans- actions giving rise to expenditures for production abroad of films; utilization of films, scripts, syn- chronization, etc.; collaboration in cinematog- raphy; insurance of ships and aircraft against risks of opera t ion ;4 and other transactions not per- mitted by general authorization (provided that the amounts involved exceed Lit 1 million). Residents traveling to foreign countries may obtain from the banks exchange equivalent to Lit 1 million for each trip for tourism, business, medical treatment, and education ( the corre- sponding amount for group travel is Lit 500,000); banks are authorized to supply foreign exchange above these allowances, provided that they are satisfied that no unauthorized capital transfer is involved. To the extent that he refrains from obtaining an allocation of foreign exchange, a resident traveler may take in addition a propor- tionate amount in Italian banknotes, up to Lit 1 million. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount in foreign banknotes that they have previously declared upon entry as well as Lit 100,000 in Italian banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to any country of a few commodities in a special list (Tabella Esport) require export licenses. For exports not exceeding Lit 1 million in value, no exchange control form is required; for exports from Lit 1 million to Lit 2 million in value, a form completed by the exporter is required; for exports exceeding Lit 2 million in value, an export document completed by an author- ized bank is required. The exporter must choose an authorized bank as his bank of domicile, through which he must carry out the payments operations related to his export transactions if settlement takes place more than 360 days after exportation. Unless special approval is obtained for differ- ent terms of payment (see section on Capital, be low), exchange receipts must be collected 4 Such transactions need authorization by the Ministry of Industry. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution within one year of the arrival of the goods in the country of destination, and they must be offered for sale to an authorized bank within 30 days of receipt. Proceeds in U.S. dollars, Canadian dol- lars, and externally convertible European curren- cies may be retained by authorized banks on behalf of the recipients in foreign exchange accounts for six months, du r ing which period such balances may be used for permitted transactions or be sold to authorized banks; the banks are allowed to sell these currencies to residents for authorized transactions or to negotiate them freely with the Italian Exchange Office or among themselves. A f ter expiration of the retention period, unused balances must be sold to the I ta l ian Exchange Office at the lowest official exchange rate quoted during the retention period (these official rates are determined daily on the basis of the average closing rates in Milan and R om e ). Export proceeds may also be received by international postal money order, up to amounts w i th in the limits established for individual countries. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles are subject to the same requirements as receipts f rom exports. Shipping and insurance companies and travel and forward- ing agencies may keep operating accounts in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and externally conver- tible European currencies. Residents may retain up to the equivalent of Lit 200,000 in foreign banknotes le ft over from trips abroad and may use this exchange for other trips abroad or sell it at any time to an authorized bank. Persons may bring in any amount in Italian or foreign banknotes. Capital Inward and ou tward movements of nonresident capital are free. However, loans of any kind from nonresidents to residents and from residents to nonresidents requ ire specific authorization from the Ministry of the Treasury or the Ministry of Foreign Trade, respectively, except, with regard to OECD countries, long-term loans (o ther than loans from financial institutions to nonresidents) for the purpose of establishing or maintaining lasting economic relations and loans to relatives up to the third degree of relationship; and, with regard to EEC countries, short-term (up to one ITALY year and not exceeding Lit 250 million) and med ium- term (up to five years and not exceeding Lit 50 million) financial loans (i.e., loans not connected with commercial operations or the per- formance of se rv ices ); for none of these is any k ind of au thor iza t ion required. Repayment of such loans may be made free ly. Foreign invest- ment in Italy is, in principle, governed by Law No. 43 of February 7, 1956 and subsequent implementing regulations. Direct investment in OECD countries, by physi- cal or juridical persons (o ther than participation by a financial institution that has its main office in Italy in a foreign company not having the same corporate pu rpo se ), is permitted in any form and without any limit. Direct investment in other countries may be made only by juridical persons in firms that are in the same line of business as that of the Italian firm mak ing the investment; other types of direct investment in such countries require special authorization from the Ministry of Foreign Trade. The general license to make these investments also covers the reinvestment of earnings and the use for this purpose of the liquidation proceeds of previous investments (a f ter crediting the proceeds of the disinvestment to bank accounts similar to those established for export proceeds; see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Residents of Italy are free to buy and sell, through the Bank of Italy or the authorized banks, any foreign securities issued or payable abroad and quoted on foreign stock exchanges, and to deal in such securities among themselves against payment in lire. Such foreign securities, except securities of Lit 100,000 or less, have to be deposited with an Italian bank or with a bank abroad for account of an Italian bank. Residents are also f ree to buy and sell shares in foreign mu tual funds or investment trusts, provided that they are quoted on an official stock exchange abroad, with the exception of open-end funds whose holdings include securities that are not quoted on official stock exchanges abroad. Resi- dents do not require authorization to purchase real estate in EEC countries. All issues of securities by nonresidents on the Italian capital market require the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade, and are subject to the rules governing the issue in Italy of domestic 245 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY securities. These rules include the prior approval of the Bank of Italy, and, for issues beyond Lit 500 million, that of the Ministry of the Trea- sury, the Ministry of Industry, and the Inter- ministerial Credit Committee. Transfers in connection with donations, inher- itances, and dowries may be made freely. The transfer of property of permanent emigrants is allowed in two stages: up to the equivalent of Lit 6 million a person upon presentation of speci- fied documents at the time of leaving Italy, and the remainder when residence has been estab- lished abroad. Special regulations apply to commercial credits and credits related to the performance of services. Advance payments for imports may be made freely if importation is to take place within 360 days; in all other cases, the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade is required. When prepayments for imports exceed Lit 5 million, an advance deposit of 5 per cent is required. Deferred payments for imports are permitted freely if settle- ment is to take place, to the extent of at least 90 per cent, within 360 days after importation, and the balance within 24 months after importa- tion; such payments require the prior approval of the Italian Exchange Office if the settlement is to take place between 12 months and 24 months after importation. In all other cases, the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade is required. Advance payments for exports may be received freely if exportation is to take place within 360 days; in all other cases, such receipts require the prior approval of the Italian Exchange Office. Deferred payments for exports are permitted freely if settlement is to take place to the extent of at least 90 per cent, within 360 days after exportation, and the balance within 24 months after exportation; in all other cases, such receipts require the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Virtually identical regulations are in force for the permitted credit terms for imports and exports of services. In relations with EEC countries, the reciprocal granting of credits for commercial transactions or the performance of services, with a ma tur i ty longer than the time limits that banks are author- 246 ized to approve and up to five years, may be effected after examination of the documents by the Italian Exchange Office. Loans and credits (the latter only beyond a certain duration, generally 180-360 days) not connected with commercial transactions or with the performance of services require the approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. However, finan- cial loans may be granted to or by residents of EEC countries as indicated above. Authorized banks must maintain approximately balanced for- eign exchange positions, i.e., the amount of their foreign assets must not normally be lower than that of the deposits they have obtained from non- residents. The export is not permitted of securities, except those which are owned by nonresidents and have been purchased against U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, or externally convertible European cur- rencies, or against funds on a Foreign Account or a Capital Account. Gold Residents may freely hold and negotiate gold in any form in Italy. The monetary authorities may freely acquire unrefined gold abroad. Agent banks that have been authorized by the Ministry of Finance may acquire unrefined gold abroad upon submission of licenses issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade to Italian firms for industrial use. Imports of wrought and semimanufactured gold, including jewelry, are subject to licensing. Exports of wrought and semimanufactured gold other than jewelry also require licenses. Commer- cial imports of articles containing a minor quan- tity of gold, such as watches, are liberalized. Changes during 1968 January 3. It was announced that the recently issued Lit 50,000 and Lit 100,000 banknotes could not be credited to Capital Accounts. January 12. The limit on imports and exports that could be effected without exchange control formalities was raised from Lit 500,000 to Lit 1 million. January 12. The limit on imports and exports that could be effected without a bank certificate was raised from the equivalent of Lit 1 million to that of Lit 2 million. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution March 9. Certain China were liberalized. imports from mainland March 22. The Bank of Italy suspended the purchase of gold from private sellers. March 25. New regulations governing gold imports were announced. The Italian Exchange Office ceased to carry out such imports. Author- ized banks could be licensed by the Ministry of Foreign Trade to buy gold for industrial purposes in free markets abroad in amounts authorized by the Treasury in agreement with the Ministry of Foreign Trade; such imports could be licensed both on behalf of industrial users and private per- sons. Previously, the Exchange Office by virtue of a 1935 law had a monopoly over gold imports; it imported gold for industrial use on behalf of the national association of jewelers. April 4. The initial emigration allowance was increased from the equivalent of Lit 4 million to that of Lit 6 million. April 4. The limit for assuming obligations relating to current invisible transactions without a special license was raised to Lit 1 million. The percentage ceilings established for agency fees were abolished. The ceiling for the allocation of foreign exchange to nonresidents at the time of repatriation was raised to Lit 200,000. The amount of receipts in favor of residents for which the bank must verify only compliance with the terms for the offer of surrender was raised from the equivalent of Lit 500,000 to the equivalent of Lit 1 million. The amount up to which securi- ties are exempt from the deposit obligation was raised to Lit 100,000. Settlement of the price for real property acquired in Italy by nonresidents could be made within three years from the time the obligation is assumed. The amount that could be taken up abroad against postal savings books and post office bonds of the domestic series was raised from Lit 1 million to Lit 5 million. Domes- tic accounts in the name of physical persons residing abroad (other than "Italian agents abroad") could be opened only where the ac- counts were fed through sales of exchange re- mitted from abroad. April 4. Short-term loans granted to residents of EEC countries other than financial institutions ITALY were included in "financial loans," as were short- term loans granted by residents of EEC countries to residents of Italy and mortgage loans on real estate located in Italy and owned by nonresidents. All limits as to amount were removed for loans to relatives residing in OECD countries and for loans from residents of OECD countries to rela- tives residing in Italy. The limitation concerning the rate of interest was eliminated for loans granted by residents of EEC countries to residents of Italy. April 26. The general permission to the author- ized banks to engage in forward sales and pur- chases of foreign currencies, previously confined to transactions relating to foreign trade, was extended to include all types of transactions. April 30. An agreement was signed with India concerning imports of specified Indian cotton tex- tiles. Certain items would remain free from quan- titative restrictions. The agreement would be valid until the end of 1970. May 24. An agreement concerning trade in cotton textiles was concluded with Pakistan on the same lines as the one with India (see April 30). It would be valid until the end of 1970. July 1. The customs union provisions of the EEC went into full effect for manufactured products. August 9. A trade protocol with Japan was signed which provided for the elimination of 58 tar iff items from the list of Japanese commodities subject to restrictive import licensing in Italy. Of these, 39 would be liberalized from January 1, 1969, and 19 before the end of 1969. October 3. The partial ban on trade with Rhodesia was extended by Decree-Law No. 1007 to include all goods except supplies for medical or human i tar ian purposes. November 29. French franc banknotes were deleted from the list of foreign banknotes accepted for deposit in foreign exchange accounts. December 27. A revised and shortened Tabella A Import went into effect, contained in a minis- terial decree of September 20. 247 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST1 Exchange System No par value for the currency of Ivory Coast has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.2 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de TAfrique de TOuest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Ivory Coast's exchange control measures do not apply to ( 1) France and its Overseas Depart- ments and Territories (except the French Terri- tory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; (2) the other member countries of the West African Monetary Union (Dahomey, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta); and ( 3) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, Congo (Brazzaville), Gabon, the Malagasy Republic, and Mali). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Ivory Coast itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Direc- torate of External Finance and Credit of the Directorate of Public Accounts and the Treasury in the Ministry of Economic and Financial Affairs, which also supervises borrowing abroad, the issu- ing, advertising, or sale of foreign securities in Ivory Coast, and inward and outward direct in- vestment. The BCEAO is authorized to collect any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics, either directly or through 1 In view of changes that took place on February 10, 1969 (see note at the end of this su rv ey ), this survey presents the position on that date. 2 The CFA f ranc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de FAfrique de FOuest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mua r i- tania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 248 the intermediary of banks, other financial institu- tions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public. All exchange transactions relating to for- eign countries must be effected through author- ized banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of Foreign Trade in the Ministry of Economic and Financial Affairs. Import certificates for liber- alized commodities are made out by the importer himself. Prescription of Currency Ivory Coast is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France (and its Over- seas Departments and Territories, except that of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other coun- tries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries—provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements whh Rhodesia are pro- hibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Certain imports from mainland China, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Pakistan, and Portugal are suspended. A few imports from all sources are prohibited (a specified type of coffee-husking machine and wheat flour) or subject to import license (sugar, paint, matches, and detergents). Imports of cer- tain commodities, including rice, are linked to purchases of the domestic product. All other ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. Virtually all imports originat- ing in and shipped from EEC countries other than France also are free from quantitative restric- tions. As a rule, imports from non-EEC coun- tries outside the French Franc Area require import licenses and may be made in accordance with an import program, which is determined annually by the Directorate of Foreign Trade. Under this program, semiannual global quotas are established for imports from such countries and special quotas for imports from countries with which Ivory Coast maintains bilateral trade agreements.3 The quotas establish limits up to which import licenses may be issued, for speci- fied commodities, to licensed importers and, in exceptional cases, to industrial or agricultural producers who are considered as end-users of the imported goods. Certain products, contained in separate liberalized lists, may be imported freely from any source, from the former OEEC coun- tries, or from Canada and the United States, respectively. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the com- modities have already been imported. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Trans- fers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Opera- tions Account countries of the French Franc Area 3 Ivory Coast has b i la teral trade agreements w i th Algeria, Israel, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and Tunisia. IVORY COAST may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 50,000 a year for each per- son; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Ivory Coast must be surrendered. The transfer of the full salary of a foreigner working in Ivory Coast is permitted upon presentation of the appro- priate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 10,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on en try, or up to the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 if they have made no declaration on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Most exports are free of license and require a declara- tion only. Exports of agricultural commodities, however, require the visa of the Directorate of Foreign Trade. Export proceeds received in cur- rencies other than those of France or another Operations Account country must be surrendered. All export transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area; residents bringing in for- eign banknotes must sell them to an authorized bank within eight days. 249 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST Capital All capital movements between Ivory Coast and Rhodesia are prohibited. Capital movements between Ivory Coast and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issu- ing, offering for sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Ivory Coast; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Ivory Coast, the control measures do not apply to rela- tions with France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, the other mem- ber countries of the West African Monetary Union, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Foreign direct investments in Ivory Coast,4 and Ivory Coast direct investments abroad,5 must be declared to the Minister of Economic and Financial Affairs when they are being made, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration, during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. The liquidation of direct investments in Ivory Coast or abroad must similarly be declared in advance to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Ivory Coast investments abroad or for- eign investments in Ivory Coast, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days following each 4 Inc lud ing those made by companies in Ivory Coast that are directly or ind i rec t ly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Ivory Coast of foreign companies. 5 Inc lud ing those made th rough the in termed iary of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly con- trolled by persons in Ivory Coast and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Ivory Coast. 250 operation. Direct investments are defined as invest- ments implying control of a company or enter- prise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Ivory Coast requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economic and Financial Affairs, as do issues by Ivory Coast companies. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with ( 1) loans backed by a guarantee f rom the Ivory Coast Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, offering, or sale in Ivory Coast has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in Ivory Coast, or by branches or subsidiaries in Ivory Coast of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economic and Financial Affairs. The following are, however, exempt from this author- ization: (1) loans constituting a direct invest- ment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; ( 2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Ivory Coast and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; ( 3) loans contracted by registered banks; (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under ( 4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be notified to the Min- ister of Economic and Financial Affairs within 20 days, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 500,000 or less. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization, and is restricted. Law No. 59-134 of September 3, 1959 pro- vides tax and customs du ty benefits and other special privileges for new enterprises recognized as having priority status. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dis- pose of gold in any form in Ivory Coast. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Minister of Economic and Financial Affa irs, which is granted liberally. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold- filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1968 February 2. By virtue of Ordinance No. 68-55, import duties on goods originating in Japan were reduced to those of the minimum ta r i f f. Pre- viously, the only goods of Japanese origin that had the benefit of the minimum tariff were green tea, black tea, and straw mats. June 4. Decree No. 68-267 of June 1, by sus- pending Decree No. 67-286 of June 30, 1967, re-established temporary exchange controls in relations with foreign countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries. Nonresident accounts in Ivory Coast could not be credited with BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Repatriation and surrender requirements were introduced for proceeds from exports to foreign countries and proceeds from invisibles. June 4. Order No. 6953 listed the types of payments to foreign countries that could be made freely through an authorized bank or through the Postal Administration, subject to the submis- sion of documentary evidence. It also introduced an exchange allocation of the equivalent of up to CFAF 125,000 (foreign currency and CFA bank- notes combined) a person a trip for travel to for- eign countries. The export by travelers to foreign countries of BCEAO banknotes was limited to CFAF 125,000 a person a trip. June 5. Announcement No. 1 of the Director- ate of External Finance and Credit provided that travelers to foreign countries could not take IVORY COAST out more than a total amount of CFAF 125,000, whether in CFA banknotes, French francs, or foreign currency. The foreign currency taken out had to be recorded in the traveler's passport. June 6. Announcement No. 2 of the Director- ate of External Finance and Credit contained provisions about payments for imports. June 6. Announcement No. 3 of the Director- ate of External Finance and Credit instructed the authorized banks how to report the repatria- tion of export proceeds. July 6. Announcement No. 4 was issued con- cerning Foreign Accounts in Francs. September 14. Decree No. 68-438 revoked Decree No. 68-267 and the regulations issued for its implementation. This action abolished the tem- porary exchange controls. November 15. With minor exceptions imports of all commodities originating in and shipped from EEC countries other than France were liberalized by Order No. 8523. November 25. Decree No. 68-566 of Novem- ber 24 reimposed temporary exchange controls in relations with foreign countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries. The provisions of the decree were essentially the same as those of Decree No. 68-267. December 16. Decree No. 68-591 prohibited, except with the prior approval of the Minister of Economic and Financial Affairs, all payments and transfers by residents to foreign countries or, within Ivory Coast, in favor of a nonresident; all imports and exports of gold, means of payment, and securities; and all transactions and transfers leading to the constitution of assets abroad by a resident, or to the holding of foreign means of payment in Ivory Coast by a resident. All claims on foreign countries or nonresidents resulting from exports, earnings, or income had to be col- lected and, where appropriate, surrendered. All import and export transactions relating to foreign countries had to be domiciled with authorized banks. All foreign securities, foreign exchange, and titles embodying claims on nonresidents had to be deposited with an authorized intermediary, whether they belonged to residents or nonresi- 251 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST dents. Decree No. 68-566 was revoked and the provisions of Decree No. 67-286 of June 30, 1967 were suspended insofar as they were con- trary to the new decree. December 16. Decree No. 68-592 submitted to control by the Minister of Economic and Financial Affairs all claims and liabilities in CFA francs and in any foreign currency that banks in Ivory Coast had vis-a-vis foreign countries. This control could be delegated to the BCEAO (see also February 10, 1969, below). December 23. Order No. 8813 provided that resident and nonresident travelers could not take out more than CFAF 10,000 in BCEAO bank- notes, or the equivalent in French banknotes or banknotes of an institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Imports by resident or nonresident travelers of BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and bank- notes of any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury would be free, as would be imports of any means of payment denominated in a foreign currency; the latter had to be surrendered w i th in eight days when brought in by residents. Nonresident travel- ers could take out any foreign banknotes they had declared upon entry; if they had made no such declaration, they could freely export foreign bank- notes up to the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. An exchange allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 a person a year was established for travel by residents to foreign countries. December 23. Order No. 8814 appointed five commercial banks and the Postal Administration as authorized intermediaries, the latter only for payments that had received the prior approval of the Directorate of External Finance and Credit. December 23. Order No. 8815 required prior approval to send means of payment, titles to claims or property, and domestic or foreign secu- rities to a foreign country through the mail or by parcel post. The BCEAO and the authorized banks were exempt from this prior approval. December 23. Order No. 8816 listed the types of payment that could be made freely, through an authorized bank or the Postal Administration, to foreign countries, subject to the submission of documentary evidence. Nonresident accounts in Ivory Coast could no longer be credited with 252 BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, or bank- notes issued by any other institute of issue main- taining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. All amounts subject to surrender had to be collected and, where appropriate, sold on the exchange market, within two months of the due date. Such payments could not be collected in banknotes or to the debit of a postal checking account in Ivory Coast. The due date for export receipts had in principle to be within 180 days after arrival of the commodities. The order also contained definitions of "foreign countries," "resi- dents," and "nonresidents." Foreign countries were defined as all countries other than France, Monaco, the countries of the West African Mone- tary Union, and the other Operations Account countries. December 27. Notice No. 1 of the Ministry of Economic and Financial Affairs established approval procedures for payments to foreign countries. December 31. The Ministry of Economic and Financial A f fa i rs issued Notice No. 2 to the authorized banks, concerning Foreign Accounts in Francs and foreign dossiers for securities. The former were defined as comprising accounts in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. With minor exceptions, all overdrafts on such accounts and all advances to nonresidents required the approval of the Directorate of External Finance and Credit. December 31. Notice No. 3 established pro- cedures for the domiciliation of import trans- actions and for payments for imports. December 31. Notice No. 4 established pro- cedures for the domiciliation of export trans- actions and for controls over the repatriation of export proceeds. December 31. Notice No. 5 established the terms on which foreign exchange could be pur- chased forward. This was only allowed for import payments; the facility was limited to specified commodities and to a period of two months. NOTE. —The following changes took place early in 1969: ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution February 4. The BCEAO issued Instruction No. 1 to the authorized banks, concerning their foreign assets and liabilities. 6 February 10. The control over the banks' posi- tion vis-a-vis foreign countries in CFA francs and foreign currencies was delegated to the BCEAO. February 10. Another financial institution was appointed as an authorized intermediary. _ , f /1 _, _. c _ . . February 10. The Directorate of External Finance and Credit became the Sub-Directorate of External Finance and Credit in the Directorate of Public Accounts and the Treasury. A IVORY COAST 253 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Jamaican Pound or £J 1 = US$2.40. The cur- rency is freely convertible into sterling at parity, subject to banking commissions. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the buying and selling rates in the London market. The Bank of Jamaica is authorized by law to levy a commission charge of up to % of 1 per cent on inward and outward transfers; on December 31, 1968 these charges were YIQ of 1 per cent on inward trans- fers and y2 °f 1 Per cent on outward transfers. Jamaica accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 22, 1963. Administration of Control The Bank of Jamaica administers exchange con- trol on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, subject to certain limitations in respect of which the ap- proval of the Ministry is required. The commercial banks are designated as authorized dealers and have authority to release foreign exchange for im- ports, basic travel allowances, and certain other payments. Most imports are regulated by the Trade Administrator, who is responsible to the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Prescription of Currency Jamaica is a member of the Sterling Area and has prescription of currency requirements similar to those of other Sterling Area countries. Settle- ments with other parts of the Sterling Area may be made freely in any Sterling Area currency. Pay- ments to countries outside the Sterling Area may be made by crediting Jamaican pounds to an Ex- ternal Account or in any foreign currency.1 Re- ceipts from countries outside the Sterling Area must be received to the debit of an External Account or in any non-Sterling Area currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rho- 1 Foreign currencies are all non-Sterling Area cur- rencies. 254 desia, and all payments to Rhodesia require spe- cific authorization. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between the accounts of residents of Jamaica and those of residents of other parts of the Sterling Area. The commercial banks are empowered to open External Accounts in Jamaican pounds for resi- dents of countries outside the Sterling Area, except Rhodesia. The funds on these accounts are treated as equivalent to External Account sterling and may be transferred freely between residents of countries outside the Sterling Area. External Accounts may be credited with payments by residents of the Sterling Area approved by the exchange control authorities, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from the sale to an authorized dealer of gold or foreign currencies. They may be debited for pay- ments to residents of the Sterling Area, for trans- fers to other External Accounts, and for the pur- chase of foreign currencies. Accounts which are credited with funds that may not be placed at the free disposal of nonresi- dents (e.g., proceeds from the sale of sterling and Jamaican pound securities or other capital pro- ceeds) are designated Blocked Accounts. Blocked funds may be reinvested in Sterling Area securi- ties which are not redeemable either optionally or contractually within five years from the date of acquisition; the income from such securities, and the proceeds at maturity of any that are redeem- able, are normally available for credit to an External Account. Applications for the release of funds in Blocked Accounts for use in Jamaica by the nonresident owner must be referred to the Bank of Jamaica. Following the United Kingdom's decision to dispense with Blocked Accounts, Jamaica decided to continue blocking procedures but on a less rigid basis. The assets of residents emigrating to coun- tries outside the Sterling Area after Ju ly 1966, however, are restricted for a period of four years, as before. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be imported freely under an open general license.2 All imports originating in mainland China, Japan, the CMEA countries, Rhodesia, South Africa, or Cuba require indi- vidual import licenses. Licenses for imports from Japan are issued according to criteria of essential- ity. Some 150 tariff items or groups of tariff items included in a special schedule of exceptions to the open general license are subject to individual licensing irrespective of country of origin unless the goods originate in and are consigned from Antigua, Barbados, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, or Trinidad and Tobago. The spe- cial schedule comprises (1) goods for which specific quotas are assigned to importers according to their past performance, e.g., certain types of foot- wear ( for these items import licenses are granted by the Trade Administrator against allotted quo tas ); (2) goods which are prohibited, e.g., automobiles with a wheel base over 116 inches, canned milk, cement, cigars, citrus products, cheap clothing, household detergents, sugar, and coffee; and ( 3) goods the licensing of which depends upon local supply, e.g., poultry, eggs, and vegetables. Payments for imports from the Sterling Area may be made freely in any Sterling Area currency. Payments for imports from other countries may be made by crediting an External Account or by purchasing non-Sterling Area currency from an authorized dealer, provided that the licensing requirements, if any, have been met, and that the importer presents a copy of the settlement invoice or other evidence of purchase and value, together with documentary evidence that the goods either have been shipped or are about to be shipped, or that the importer is under contract to make pre- payment up to six months prior to shipment; spe- cific exchange control approval is required for advance payments preceding shipment by more than six months. Certain goods are subject to a 5 per cent con- 2 The open general license applies to all countries except A lban ia, Bulgaria, ma in land China, Cuba, Czecho- slovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Japan, North Korea, Poland, Rhodesia, Ruman ia, South Africa, U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. Goods imported under the license must be consigned from one of the permitted countries and must also originate in a permitted country. JAMAICA sumption tax (2% per cent on coloring materials), whether they are imported or manufac tured domestically. Where such goods are imported, the tax is collected at the port of entry and is calcu- lated on the sum of the value accepted for cus- toms, plus the customs duty plus the tonnage tax. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles originating in the Sterl- ing Area may be made freely in any Sterling Area currency. Payments for invisibles originating out- side the Sterling Area require the approval of the authorities. Except for transactions involving resi- dents of Rhodesia, the following applies. Approval is granted freely for payments for all commercial transactions, when the application is supported by the appropriate documentary evidence. For pay- ments for certain other purposes, e.g., insurance premiums, approval is granted upon request. A basic exchange allocation of £J 250 for each journey for travel other than for business and pro- fessional reasons outside the Sterling Area is made available automatically to residents by the autho- rized dealers; the central bank may authorize the release of additional amounts for bona fide tourist travel. Facilities for travel for business and profes- sional reasons outside the Sterling Area may be provided by authorized banks at the rate of £J 20 a day for a period of one month. Expenses for hotel accommodations, meals en route, etc., that are settled in Jamaica in sterling must be deducted from the travel allocations. Resi- dents must obtain prior approval from the Bank of Jamaica to make cash gifts, which cannot exceed £J 250 in a calendar year from each donor, to residents of countries outside the Ster- ling Area. Authorized dealers may, subject to the presentation of supporting evidence, sell non- Sterling Area currency for the following: refunds of income tax due to nonresidents; consu- lar fees without limit, as well as transfers from the Ministry of External Affairs to accounts in the names of embassies and their established staffs, High Commissioners, and diplomats; up to a limit of £J 1,000 for ( 1) advertising and promotional expenses, ( 2) renewal and refund of premiums due to nonresident insurers, and (3) subscrip- tions to trade organizations; up to a limit of £J 2,000 for commissions and expenses due by Jamaican firms to their agents and representatives and for serial rights in Jamaica of newspaper and 255 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA magazine articles, photographs, strip cartoons, etc.; specified payments, up to a limit of <£ J 2,500, that are due by Jamaican insurers to nonresident insured parties under life or endowment insur- ance policies; agents' expenses and fees, up to £J 2,500, due by Jamaican insurers to nonresi- dents in respect of direct insurance policies. With the exception of tourist travel, requests for addi- tional amounts or for purposes for which there are no standard limits (e.g., remittances by chari- table institutions) are approved if the authorities are satisfied that no capital flight is involved. Travelers going abroad may take with them Jamaican banknotes not exceeding £J 10 and other notes, with the exception of U.K. notes, not exceeding £J 100 in value. Nonresidents may take out the foreign currency notes they brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds All goods valued at not more than £J 10 may be freely exported by post or air express to any country not on the prohibited list. Where the value exceeds £J 10, the goods may be exported to all countries except those on the prohibited list, but a specific license is required for the export of certain agricultural products, ammunition, explo- sives, firearms, antique fu rn i tu re, ready-made gar- ments, gold bullion, mineral and metal ores, and antique paintings. The prohibited list of countries comprises Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hun- gary, North Korea, Poland, Rhodesia, Rumania, South Africa, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam; exports to these countries are prohibited. Export- ers to countries in the Sterling Area are not required to repatriate their export proceeds; exporters to other countries are required to sur- render their exchange proceeds, which must be obtained in a non-Sterling Area currency, to authorized dealers w i th in six months from the date of shipment. However, certain exporters may retain, with the approval of the exchange control authorities, an agreed portion of their proceeds to facilitate the import of items necessary for their operations. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in non-Sterling Area currencies must be sold to an authorized dealer. Receipts in Sterling Area currencies may be retained. Travelers to Jamaica may bring in 256 Jamaican banknotes up to <£ J 10 (i.e., <£ stg. 10) a traveler, notes of other Sterling Area terri- tories up to an aggregate value of £ J 10 a traveler, and any amount of non-Sterling Area banknotes; resident travelers are required to sell their hold- ings of non-Sterling Area currencies to a local authorized dealer. Capital There are no restrictions on investments in the Sterling Area by residents. Investments in non- Sterling Area securities require the approval of the exchange control authorities, and such securi- ties must be purchased with investment currency, which may be obtained only in the United King- dom. The sale of securities, whether sterling securi- ties or foreign currency securities, by residents of Jamaica to nonresidents of the Sterling Area may be allowed, provided that the fu ll proceeds are received in External Account sterling or in non- Sterling Area currency; the latter must be sur- rendered to an authorized dealer in Jamaica. Pur- chases of property for personal use outside the Sterling Area require the approval of the exchange control authorities, and such property may be purchased only through the United Kingdom and only with property currency. Direct investments in the Sterling Area may be made freely by residents. Direct investments in other countries are only permitted through the investment currency market in the United King- dom. Direct investments in Jamaica by nonresidents for which "approved status" is sought require the approval of the exchange control authorities (which is usually gran ted) and must be made in the cur- rency appropriate to the country of permanent residence of the investor, in External Account sterling, or in goods and services in lieu of cash. To qualify for "approved status," an enterprise must have adequate capital and the nonresident investor must take an active part in management. For foreign investments granted "approved status," repatriation of the capital (including any appre- ciation in va lue) is permitted at any time; remit- tances of profits and dividends are permitted when the application is supported by the appropriate set of accounts. Remittances of profits resulting from foreign investment in respect of which "approved status" was not sought or granted are not restric- ted, but the realization of the invested capital (if ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the enterprise is bought by a resident) may have to be effective through the mechanism of Blocked Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Payments for amortization of, and interest on, foreign loans (i.e., loans made by nonresidents of the Sterling Area) are permitted upon application to the exchange control authorities. However, non- residents are not normally permitted to take security in respect of loans made to Jamaican companies owned or controlled by them. Author- ized dealers may, without reference to the exchange control authorities, make loans or overdrafts to nonresident individuals and nonresident-owned or nonresident-controlled Jamaican companies, up to £J 1,000 and £J 10,000, respectively. Other requests are referred to the Bank of Jamaica. Transfers to nonresident beneficiaries under wills and intestacies are approved, provided that all local indebtedness has been met. Repatriates taking up residence in the country of their nationality outside the Sterling Area may transfer all their sterling assets at the official market rate of exchange. Jamaican nationals emigrating to countries outside the Sterling Area are granted a settling-in allowance of the equiva- lent of £J 5,000 at the official market rate of exchange; any sterling assets in excess of the allowance are restricted for four years but may at any time be transferred outside the Sterling Area through the investment currency market in the United Kingdom. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Jamaica for numismatic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authori- ties and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewlery, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for JAMAICA imports and exports by or an behalf of the mone- tary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1968 During the year, many imports were added to the list of exceptions to the open general license; only selected instances are mentioned below. February 21. The Export Industry Encour- agement Law of 1956 was amended to extend the period for which export manufacturers could be granted certain tax incentives. April 9. Imports of all types of machine tools and dies from all sources required a specific license. May 1. The agreement establishing the Carib- bean Free Trade Association went into effect. Jamaica became a member of the Association on June 27, with effect from August 1, 1968. August 1. Imports of many industrial raw mate- rials from all sources were admitted free of duty. August 8. Government Notice No. 2529 was published containing an open general license for imports to replace that of July 8, 1966 and all amendments thereto. The list of commodities exempted from the open general license remained virtually unchanged. However, the requirement of a specific import license for goods listed as sub- ject to specific licensing was waived for certain of these items when originating in and consigned from Antigua, Barbados, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, or Trinidad and Tobago. August 8. All exports to the following countries were prohibited: Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Rhodesia, Rumania, South Africa, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. September 22. The Bank of Jamaica's commis- sion charge on outward transfers was reduced from % of 1 per cent to l/2 per cent. 257 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.00246853 gram of fine gold per Japanese Yen or ¥ 360.00 = US$1. The official limits of buying and selling rates for U.S. dollars (spo t), which are set by the Ministry of Finance, are ¥ 362.70 (upper limit) and ¥ 357.30 (lower l im i t ), per US$1; the exchange authorities will buy or sell exchange at rates within this range. Authorized banks may freely carry out spot and forward exchange transactions. Japan accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from April 1, 1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (M IT I ), and the Bank of Japan as the Government's agent. However, much of the authority for approving normal payments is delegated to authorized banks. Import and export licensing is handled by MITI. Inward cap- ital investments of a long-term character require the approval of the Minister of Finance and the competent minister (in some cases that of the Minister of Finance only) after deliberation by the Foreign Investment Council. Outward capital investments require the approval of the Minister of Finance. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries may be made in any currency, and receipts may be obtained in any of the designated receivable currencies;1 receipts in other currencies require an individual license. Settlements in yen with foreign countries must be made through a Nonresident Free Yen Account. All payments to Rhodesia require prior approval by the Minister of Finance or the Minister of International Trade and Industry; in many cases such payments are prohibited or restricted for security reasons. 1 In addition to yen, the designated receivable cur- rencies are Aus t ra l ian dollars, Aus tr ian schillings, Bel- gian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche m a rk, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 258 Nonresident Accounts There are two main nonresident accounts, as described below. 1. Nonresident Free Yen Accounts. These accounts may in principle be opened by any non- resident with any authorized bank in Japan and may be credited with the yen proceeds from exports of goods to Japan and from other autho- rized transactions incidental thereto, with yen pro- ceeds from sales of designated receivable foreign currencies, with transfers from other Free Yen Accounts, and with the countervalue in yen of authorized outward payments. There are no restrictions on payments from these accounts. The yen balances on these accounts may be converted into any foreign currency. 2. Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts. These accounts may be held by any nonresident with any authorized bank in Japan. They may be credited with yen proceeds from transactions other than those which are authorized to be credited to Non- resident Free Yen Accounts. Permitted credits to Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts include pro- ceeds from the sales of debentures and beneficiary certificates sold within six months from the date of validated acquisition, proceeds from sales of fixed assets which a nonresident acquired when he was a resident, and yen in excess of the amount of US$10,000 which emigrants of foreign nation- ality leaving Japan permanently are allowed to take out of Japan. Balances on these accounts are not convertible into foreign currencies, although remittances are permitted each year up to one fifth of the balance at the end of the previous year or the equivalent of US$2,000, whichever is the higher. Withdrawals from these accounts are authorized for certain purposes, such as meeting the outlays involved in managing investments in Japan and the expenses of nonresi- dents staying in Japan. Transfers to other Non- resident Yen Deposit Accounts are authorized freely, thus enabling the individual account holder to repatriate his funds by selling them to another nonresident in return for foreign currency. In addition, there are Foreign Investors' Deposit Accounts in which certain proceeds from invest- ments liquidated by foreigners may be placed. Bal- ances on these accounts may be used for remit- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tances abroad or for making other investments under certain conditions. However, these accounts are of limited importance, because proceeds from foreigners' liquidated investments may be remitted through Nonresident Free Yen Accounts without having been placed in Foreign Investors' Deposit Accounts. Imports and Import Payments With the exception of books and periodicals, imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Other imports are subject to individual licensing by the authorized banks, but most private imports are liberalized from all sources. There are different licensing procedures for imports requiring pay- ment in foreign currencies: ( 1) Under the Import Quota System (covering imports of goods on the "negative list," which comprises 121 i tems), the importer must first obtain from MITI an import quota, which is based on the quantitative principle. If the quota is granted, the importer receives an import quota certificate which entitles him to receive an import license from an authorized bank automatically upon application. Practically all import quota certificates are issued on a global basis, without regard to the country of origin or the currency of settlement. ( 2) Under the Auto- matic Import Quota System, import quotas for specified categories of imports are granted auto- matically on a global basis and without any restriction. (3) Under the Automatic Approval System, imports are free of quantitative restric- tion; since licenses to import the commod- ities specified under this system are issued freely and without limitation by the authorized banks, on application. All items subject to the Automatic Approval System may be imported from any coun- try except Rhodesia. Payment for imported goods must be made under one of the standard methods of settlement for imports (generally within a period from the date of receipt of the shipping documents or the goods to four months a f ter customs clearance). When the settlement proposal is not in accordance with one of the standard methods, prior approval of MITI must be obtained. In general, importers must make a deposit with an authorized bank when applying for an import license; currently the amount of this deposit is 1 per cent or 5 per cent of the value of the JAPAN intended imports, depending on the goods to be imported ( for imports from the Ryukyu Islands, the deposit is ^o of 1 per cent). The deposit is returned after 80 per cent of the goods has been imported or if the import transaction is canceled for a reason acceptable to the control authorities. The percentage of deposit can be increased or decreased. The 1 per cent deposit may be made in cash, securities, or other collateral; the 5 per cent deposit must be made in cash. Payments for Invisibles All payments to Rhodesia are subject to the approval of the Minister of Finance or the Min- ister of International Trade and Industry. Pay- ments to other countries for invisibles also require approval, but most such payments are approved freely by authorized banks without any limitation or within certain established limits. Payments for certain invisibles, including payments that exceed the established limits, are referred to the Bank of Japan for the purpose of capital control; except for certain travel expenditures, they are automatically approved without undue delay, upon verification of the authenticity of the current transaction. For tourism and other travel for personal reasons, an allowance equivalent to US$500 a person a trip is automatically made available (US$2,000 for business t rave l ); for additional amounts, spe- cial authorization is required.2 A traveler is per- mitted to pay in yen, before departure, the cost of transportation to and from his destination. Cer- tain contracts require approval; but when a license for a contract has been granted, any pay- ment resulting from the contract may be made freely. Settlements which are not made under a "standard" method require, in principle, individ- ual approval; under this method, payments for services, etc., may not be made more than three months before, or later than six months after, receipt of the services, etc. Both residents and nonresidents may take out freely ¥ 20,000 in Japanese currency. A nonres- ident may take out freely foreign currencies up to the amount which he brought into Japan. 2 On April 1, 1969 the automatic allowance for tourism and other travel for personal reasons was increased to US$700 a person a t r ip; additional amounts were ap- proved by the Bank of Japan, subject to verification. 259 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN Exports and Export Proceeds With minor exceptions exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. All exports (except exports without exchange) must be registered with an authorized bank ("bank certification"), in order that the requirements concerning prescription of currency and surrender of proceeds may be enforced. Licenses are not generally required, except for goods subject to the following restrictions: restric- tions on certain goods to control their export to communist countries; restrictions on goods in short supply in the domestic market (e.g., minerals, fertilizers, and staple foods); and restrictions designed to forestall the imposition of import restrictions by other countries (e.g., on such commodities as pottery and porcelain, sewing machines, and certain textiles). Exports under processing and consignment sale contracts and exports for which settlement is not under the standard method also require individual licenses. Under the standard method of settlement for exports, the value of the exported goods must, in general, be settled by drawing a bill of exchange payable within five months after sight or within six months after shipment in a designated receivable currency. Export proceeds must be surrendered within 10 days from the date of acquisition. However, trading concerns resident in Japan may be per- mitted to hold foreign currency deposit accounts with authorized banks, in which they may keep their proceeds in U.S. dollars and/or sterling from exports and invisibles for a maximum of 20 days; during this period, they may use the exchange to make approved payments for their imports or for current invisibles, or sell it to the authorized banks for yen. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts under the standard method of settle- ment may be accepted without a license. Under this method, receipts for the value of services, etc., must be obtained within one year before, or within six months after, rendering the service, etc. But contracts for services performed for nonresidents when payment is to be received by a nonstandard method are subject to individual licensing. Receipts from invisibles must, as a rule, be sur- rendered. However, in order to facilitate payments 260 for current invisibles, specified residents (shipping companies, etc.) are authorized to keep foreign currency deposit accounts with banks in the desig- nated receivable foreign currencies. Both residents and nonresidents may bring in freely any amount in foreign or Japanese currency. Capital Foreign investments in Japan are generally sub- ject to approval, mainly in accordance with the Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 163 of May 10, 1950) or the Foreign Exchange Control Law (Law No. 228 of December 1, 1949). All acqui- sitions of stocks, bonds, debentures, beneficiary certificates, and claims in the form of loans by foreign investors are in principle subject to valida- tion or license. However, acquisitions of stocks in the securities market are automatically approved by the Bank of Japan as follows: up to 20 per cent total foreign participation in the stock of a corpo- ration not classified as a restricted industry, up to 15 per cent total foreign participation in the stock of a corporation classified as a restricted industry,3 and up to 7 per cent of the total capital of any cor- poration if acquired by a single holder. Acquisition of stock for participation in management is sub- ject, except in the case of newly established com- panies in the liberalized industries, to individual screening, but it is approved in principle if there is no adverse effect on the Japanese economy. All these acquisitions must be made against yen pro- ceeds from the sale of foreign exchange or its equivalent if the investor wishes to obtain remit- tance rights upon validation. Stocks in the form of stock dividends on earned surplus or revaluation of assets may be acquired freely, but application for remittance rights must be made within three months from the date of acquisition. The following are deemed to be the same as yen proceeds from the sale of foreign exchange, if they are reinvested in Japan and if approval had been obtained for their acquisition: proceeds from the redemption after maturity of debentures, beneficiary certifi- cates, or claims in the form of loans; dividends on stocks; interest on debentures or on claims in the form of loans; distributed profits of beneficiary 3 Restricted industries include waterworks, railways and other transportation, electric and gas utilities, banks, mining, fishery, and broadcasting. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution certificates; receipts from technological assistance contracts; and proceeds from sales of stocks, debentures, and beneficiary certificates. In the event of expropriation or compulsory sale of a foreign investment, the amount paid on account of expropriation may be repatriated freely. Remittance of the proceeds from the sale of validated stock, as well as transfer abroad of earn- ings on foreign investments acquired with foreign currency, is permitted. Proceeds from the sale of validated debentures and beneficiary certificates may be deposited in Nonresident Free Yen Accounts, if the securities have been held for six months from the date of acquisition. Proceeds from the sale of stocks, bonds, deben- tures, beneficiary certificates, etc., acquired with yen withdrawn from Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts may be deposited in Nonresident Free Yen Accounts, provided that the securities have been held for at least three years from the date of acquisition. Repayments of loans extended to residents from Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts become remittable, subject to licensing by the Bank of Japan, beginning three years from the date of the loan. When foreign companies desire to establish a branch or a plant in Japan, they are required to inform the Ministry of Finance and MITI through the Bank of Japan. When branches or plants established by foreign companies wish to bring in funds from their main offices abroad, they are required to obtain licenses. The branches estab- lished in accordance with approved procedures are permitted to remit their profits and principal abroad. Foreign investment in Japan generally requires approval by the Minister of Finance and the com- petent minister (in some cases the approval of the Minister of Finance only) after deliberation by the Foreign Investment Council. However, foreign investment aimed at setting up new joint ventures in those industries listed in Categories A and B of the Liberalization List are automatically approved by the competent ministers. For foreign investment in the industries listed in Category A (33 indus tr ies), however, the automatic approval will be given only if the foreign capital ratio does not exceed 50 per cent, while investments in Cate- JAPAN gory B (17 industries) will be automatically approved without restriction on the extent of for- eign participation. Even where investments for establishing new enterprises in the 50 liberalized industries are concerned, however, individual screening is required in the following instances: ( 1) when the setting up of new companies is only nominal and when these companies may be actu- ally scheduled for eventual merger with compa- nies already in existence; (2) when foreign capi- tal may have the controlling power over manage- ment in the industries listed in Category A; or ( 3) when foreign participation is considered excep- tionally detrimental to Japan's interests.4 Purchases by nonresidents of real estate in Japan for residential or other nonprofit purposes and of offices require approval by the Bank of Japan; purchases of real estate for other purposes require approval by the Ministry of Finance. The transfer abroad of capital by residents and the making of investments abroad are subject to approval. Japanese emigrants may remit up to US$5,000 or its equivalent in other foreign cur- rencies from their assets to their new country of domicile subject only to verification by an autho- rized bank; additional amounts may be remitted subject to licensing by the Bank of Japan. Emi- grants of foreign nationality leaving Japan may remit to their new country of domicile up to US$10,000 or its equivalent in other foreign cur- rencies; additional amounts may be granted according to the merits of each case. The remain- ing liquid assets in Japan of such foreigners may be credited to Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts. Securities acquired with approval under the Foreign Investment Law may be imported and exported freely. Gold Domestic producers sell their production, sub- ject to government guidance, to gold ingot dealers at ¥ 660 a gram for domestic industrial and dental use. The government from time to time purchases gold in the London market for resale at ¥ 660 a gram to mining companies, which must resell in turn, at the same price, to processors. Exports and other imports of gold are not permitted. Residents 4 On March 1, 1969 the number of liberalized indus- tries was increased to 204, viz., 160 in Category A and 44 in Category B. 261 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN other than gold producers and industrial users are free to purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Japan. Changes during 1968 April 1. Imports of perfumed water, toilet powder, cream and rouges, toilet water, and spe- cified categories of tulle and other net fabrics were freed from quantitative restrictions. April 30. The requirement for the obligatory sale to the Government by domestic gold pro- ducers of 5 per cent of their production at ¥ 405 a gram (US$35 a troy ounce) was suspended retroactively to January 1968. June 1. Restrictions on technology imports were relaxed. License agreements with overseas licensors involving not more than the equivalent of US$50,000 (either as a single payment or in an- nual payments) would be automatically approved; agreements involving more than US$50,000 with all but seven industries would be liberalized "in principle" but would be subject to screening; the seven industries concerned with a ircraf t, weapons, explosives, nuclear energy, space development, electronic computers, and petrochemicals. (Pre- viously, automatic approval was only extended to contracts of not more than one year involving pay- ment of not more than US$30,000.) June 15. A virtual embargo on trade with Rhodesia went into effect. June 25. All payments to Rhodesia were made subject to the approval of the Minister of Finance or the Minister of International Trade and Indus- try. Many types of payment were prohibited or restricted. October 1. Imports of hollow mining drill steel, free-cutting steel, alloy tool steel, and limes were freed from quantitative restrictions. 262 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Jordan Dinar or JD 1 = US$2.80. The official limits for the U.S. dollar are US$2.82 buying, and US $2.78 selling, per JD 1. The rate of the Cen- tral Bank of Jordan for the pound sterling is JD 1 = <£ 1 3s. 4d., buy ing and selling. Author- ized banks deal in U.S. dollars and other foreign currencies at rates usually based on the rates in the New York market. A fee of 4 per cent is levied on the issue of import licenses. A fee of %0 of 1 per cent is levied on exchange permits approved by the Central Bank for sales of exchange for imports, except imports of govern- ment departments and certain other approved institutions. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the For- eign Exchange Department of the Central Bank of Jordan, which also issues exchange licenses; the Central Bank has, however, delegated to authorized banks the issuance of exchange licenses up to a permitted annual limit for payments for educational expenses of Jordanians studying abroad. Import policy is formulated by an Import Committee, which is composed of the Director of Supply, Imports, and Exports, the Deputy Gover- nor of the Central Bank of Jordan, the Under- secretary for National Economy, the Undersecre- tary for Finance, the Director of Customs, the Director-General of the Port of Aqaba, the Chair- man of the Chamber of Industry, and the Chair- man of the United Chambers of Commerce. The decisions of the Import Committee are carried out by the Controller of Imports of the Ministry of National Economy. Prescription of Currency Jordan is a member of the Sterling Area, and most of its trade is financed in sterling. Payments to residents of the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency. In practice, such pay- ments are made in sterling to a Resident Account in the United Kingdom, or in Jordan dinars to a nonresident Sterling Area Account with an autho- rized bank in Jordan. Payments to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area must be made in sterling to an External Account in the United Kingdom, or in Jordan dinars to a nonresident External Account with an authorized bank in Jordan, or in any convertible currency. Proceeds from exports and invisibles must be collected, and surrendered where required, as fol- lows: from residents of the Sterling Area, in resi- dent sterling or in Jordan dinars from a nonresi- dent Sterling Area Account with an authorized bank in Jordan; from residents of countries out- side the Sterling Area, in sterling from an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Jordan dinars from a nonresident External Account with an authorized bank in Jordan, or in any convertible currency. Nonresident Accounts Subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank of Jordan, authorized banks may open non- resident accounts designated either Sterling Area Accounts or External Accounts, according to the permanent residence of the account holder. These accounts must be fed with appropriate funds. The approval of the Central Bank of Jordan is neces- sary for redesignation of residence, for transfers from resident to nonresident accounts, and for transfers from Sterling Area Accounts to External Accounts. Transfers betv/een similarly designated nonresident accounts, transfers from External Accounts to Sterling Area Accounts, and trans- fers from nonresident to resident accounts are permitted freely. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain items 1 from any source and all imports f rom Israel and Rhodesia are prohib- ited. All other imports, unless covered by an agreement between Jordan and the exporting country (i.e., agricultural products from neighbor- ing countries and imports covered by the Arab Common Market Agreement), require import licenses if their c. & f. value is JD 50 or more. These are granted freely by the Ministry of 1 These include carbonic acid; arak; alcohol; nonalco- holic beverages; cigarettes; diesel-engined cars, lorries, and buses; macaron i, spaghetti, and similar products; m i l i ta ry un i fo rms; and liquid batteries. Imports of barley, len t i ls, olives, olive oil, and some other ag r icu l tu ral commod i t ies are proh ib i ted in good crop years. 263 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN National Economy, except for certain i t em s2 which are subject to scru t iny by the Minister of National Economy (whose prior approval is also required for imports of indus t r ial machinery and of all materials needed for the es tab l ishment or expansion of an indus tr ial firm) or sc ru t iny by the competent ministry. Importers of tea and iron bars must obtain 75 per cent and 50 per cent, respectively, of the ir annual requ iremen ts from India. Imports require an exchange license f rom the Central Bank. Exchange licenses are granted automatically when an import license has been obtained. Import licenses are valid for 12 months. The importer must complete the process of importation within the period of validity of the license. He may either open a letter of credit or pay against docu- ments. In either case an exchange license from the Central Bank is required. Imports should, in principle, enter the country through the port of Aqaba; goods that do not meet th is requirement are subject to a penalty of 5 per cent of the c .i .f. va lue; the pena l ty is 1 per cent, however, for raw materials deemed essential by the Ministry of National Economy for certain machinery and equ ipmen t, and government imports are exempt. Bank guarantees in favor of the Ministry of Finance are required on most imports shipped through ports other than Aqaba. Impor ts that require an impo rt license also require an exchange license, which is granted automatically. A fee of 1/10 °f 1 Per cent *s levied on exchange licenses for imports, except those made by government depar tmen ts and certain approved institutions. Most imported commodities are subject to an import tax of 4 per cent of the c. & f. value. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to exchange control approval. Payments for the fol- lowing types of invisibles are generally permitted 2 These items on the "restricted list" include ghee, ma rga r ine, and other vegetable fa ts; tomato juice; sac- cha r in; Du lc in; pectin; pe tro leum products (except av ia- tion f u e l ); detergents; superphosphates; cemen t; t a n n ed leather; amu sement machines; b lanke ts; woolen rugs; paper n apk ins and s im i lar products; dry ba t ter ies; shav ing lotion; and toothpaste. 264 up to certain l im i ts: income of nonresidents; sav- ings of foreign nationals who intend to re turn to the ir own countries; remittances to refugee depen- den ts; reasonable l iv ing expenses of Jordanian nationals abroad; expenses of Jordanian residents traveling abroad; expenditures for education; expenses of medical t rea tmen t; business expenses abroad; and insurance payments in accordance w i th special regulations. Remittances for family maintenance may be made by postal order at a rate not exceeding JD 10 a month to any one person resident abroad. The policy in respect of paymen ts for invisibles is, in general, liberal and nondiscriminatory. Residents traveling to any of the other Arab countries may take out up to JD 100 in Jordanian notes and coins or its equivalent in foreign cur- rency. All travelers to other destinations may take out up to JD 25 in domestic notes and coins or the equivalent in foreign currency. Tourists and other nonresidents may also take out foreign cur- rency notes and coins and any other foreign means of payment that they had previously brought in and declared upon en try. All travelers may take out checks, travelers checks, or letters of credit issued by authorized banks in Jordan in accor- dance w i th exchange permits authorized by the Central Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Export proceeds exceeding JD 50 must be col- lected and the fore ign exchange, including sterling,, su r rende red. Proceeds from exports to Arab League coun t r ies of agr icu l tural products and locally manu fac tu red goods are exempt f rom the surrender requ iremen t, except for the products of tobacco and cigarette factories, the phosphate company, the dyeing and tanning company, the cement p lan t, and the petroleum ref inery; also exempt are proceeds from exports to Iran of agri- cu l tural products. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange (including sterling) receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered to an author- ized bank. Travelers entering Jordan may bring in a max imum of JD 100 in Jordanian currency notes and any amount in foreign currencies. Any person regarded for exchange control purposes as resident in Jordan may be required by the Central ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Bank to surrender to an authorized bank any for- eign currency (including sterling) at his disposal. Capital Capital may be imported freely, but exports of capital require approval and normally are not allowed. Current income resulting from nonresi- dent investments in Jordan may be transferred abroad. Under the Law for the Encouragement of Investment, effective January 16, 1967 (Law No. 1 of 1967), profits from approved foreign investments may be remitted, without limitation, in the currency of the original investment. After two years repatriation of the capital is permitted in three equal annual installments in the same foreign currency in which the original investment was made. The Investment Committee may approve more liberal provisions. All transactions under the investment law require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Jordan for numismatic or investment pur- poses. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1968 January 1. The penalty on goods imported through ports other than that of Aqaba was raised from 2 per cent to 5 per cent. Goods shipped through Black Sea or Mediterranean ports became exempt, provided that the goods originated in the country in which the port was located. However, such goods became subject to a 2 per cent penalty on March 7, and to the fu ll 5 per cent penalty on June 16. May 11. Bank guarantees in favor of the Minis- JORDAN try of Finance were required for all imports through ports other than Aqaba. The require- ments were relaxed slightly on July 11. May 18. Imports of 18 Pharmaceuticals were banned. June 16. The right to import was restricted to resident Jordanian nationals, Jordanian companies with at least 51 per cent Jordanian ownership, and foreign nationals previously engaged in the import trade. June 16. An import tax of 4 per cent was levied on the c. & f. value of virtually all com- modities. For goods subject to import license, it was payable upon issuance of the license, and for other goods upon customs clearance. Previously, a 4 per cent fee was levied only on licenses for imports that were to be paid for in any currency other than Jordan dinars. June 16. Lists of prohibited and restricted imports were published. July 4. The penalty on goods imported through ports other than that of Aqaba was reduced from 5 to 1 per cent for raw materials, irrespective of origin, that are deemed essential by the Ministry of National Economy. November 25. The Aqaba surcharge was reduced to 1 per cent on machinery and equip- ment destined for firms covered by the Law for the Encouragement of Investment. December 11. The agreement with the Yugo- slav Bank for Foreign Trade was terminated under which the proceeds of exports of phosphates to Yugoslavia could be used only in payment for imports of Yugoslav goods and approved invis- ibles. December 31. Payments to residents of coun- tries outside the Sterling Area, when made in a non-Sterling Area currency, could be made in any convertible currency. Previously, such payments could only be made in a currency appropriate to the country of residence of the recipient and/or the country of origin of the goods. 265 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA1 Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.124414 gram of fine gold per Kenya Shilling or K Sh 7.14286 = US$1. The Central Bank of Kenya deals with the Govern- ment and with authorized banks in Tanzania shillings and Uganda shillings against Kenya shil- lings at par; the authorized banks also deal with the public in these currencies at par. In transac- tions with authorized banks, the Central Bank of Kenya stands ready to issue Kenya shillings in exchange for sterling and to supply sterling in exchange for Kenya shillings; its buying and sell- ing rates for sterling in such transactions, which d iffer f rom the parity rate of ,£1.00 = K Sh 17.14291 by y32 and V16 per cent, are K Sh 17.1376 and K Sh 17.1536, respectively. The Central Bank deals with the Government in pounds sterling at the parity rate of £1.00 = K Sh 17.1429. The Central Bank does not deal in foreign currencies 2 other than sterling and U.S. dollars. Banks in Kenya base their rates for such foreign currencies on the current market rates in London. The Kenya shilling circulates concurrently with the East African shilling previ- ously issued by the East African Currency Board, which has ceased to be legal tender and is being withdrawn from circulation. East African shillings continue to be exchanged at the rate of K Sh 20 for EA Sh 20, but East African shillings imported with specific exchange control approval by banks are redeemed at a rate of K Sh 17.1429 for EA Sh 20. Administration of Control The Minister for Finance has delegated the administration of exchange control to the Central Bank of Kenya. Authority for approving normal import payments, many payments in respect of current invisibles, and some capital payments to countries other than Tanzania and Uganda is dele- gated to the authorized banks. Import and export controls are administered 1 In view of certain changes that took place on Jan- u a ry 23, ]969 (see note at the end of th is s u r v e y ), th is survey presents the position on th at date. 2 Foreign currencies are all currencies other than the Kenya shilling, the Tanzania shilling, the Uganda sh i l l ing, and the East A f r i c an sh i l l ing. 266 by the Director of Trade and Supplies in the Min- istry of Commerce and Industry. The responsi- bility for issuing import and export licenses rests with the Director, to whom applications should be submitted by the importer or exporter in Kenya before orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. The government-owned Kenya National Trading Corporation, Ltd., has a monopoly over the import of rice and certain textiles, and the Ministry of Commerce and Industry is the sole importer of sugar for consumption. Certain agri- cultural imports and exports are effected by State Marketing Boards. Together with Tanzania and Uganda, Kenya is part of the East Afr ican currency area. Payments from Kenya to Tanzania and Uganda are free of restrictions. Prescription of Currency Kenya is a member of the Sterling Area and maintains prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom; settle- ments with Tanzania and Uganda, however, nor- mally are effected in East African currency.3 Payments to residents of countries in the Sterling Area other than Tanzania and Uganda may be made in Kenya shillings to the credit of a Non- resident Sterling Area Account in Kenya or in any other Sterling Area currency; receipts from such countries must be obtained in Kenya shil- lings from a Nonresident Sterling Area Account in Kenya or in any other Sterling Area currency. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Kenya to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling to an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Kenya shil- lings to the credit of an External Account in Kenya, or in any other non-Sterling Area cur- rency except Rhodesian pounds that is appro- priate to the country of residence of the payee. Receipts from countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be obtained in sterling from an External Account in the United King- dom, in Kenya shillings from an External Account 3 East A f r i c an currency comprises Kenya shillings, Tanzan ia shillings, and Uganda shillings. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution in Kenya, or in any other specified currency 4 that is not a Sterling Area currency. Special regula- tions apply to setlements with Rhodesia. Remit- tances to South Africa are prohibited, with the exception of those of pensions payable by the Government of Kenya or by the East African Commun i ty organizations. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts are held by residents of other Sterling Area countries except Tanzania and Uganda. They may be credited freely with all authorized payments to such Sterling Area countries by Kenya residents, with transfers from other Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts, with transfers from External Accounts, and w i th the proceeds from sales to an authorized dealer in Kenya of any non-Sterling Area currency (other than Rhodesian pounds) or gold by residents of any country outside the Ster- ling Area. They may be debited freely for pay- ments for exports to other countries in the Sterling Area except Tanzania and Uganda and other pay- ments due by residents of other countries in the Sterling Area except Tanzania and Uganda to Kenya residents, for payments to residents of other countries in the Sterling Area except Tan- zania and Uganda for any purpose, for transfers to other Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts in Kenya, for purchases of any Sterling Area cur- rency, and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in Kenya; pro- vided that permission of the appropriate exchange control authorities in a Sterling Area country other than Tanzania or Uganda has been obtained, Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts may excep- tionally be debited for transfers to External Accounts in Kenya or elsewhere in the Sterling Area and for purchases in Kenya of any non- Sterling Area currency or gold from authorized dealers. Accounts in Kenya shillings held by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than 4 The specified currencies are listed as follows: Aus- t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish and Faroese kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwe- gian k rone r, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas; Swedish kronor, Swiss f rancs, U.S. dollars, and all Sterling Area currenc ies other than the Kenya shilling, the Tanzania sh i l l ing, the Uganda shilling, and the East A f r ican sh i l l ing. KENYA Rhodesia with authorized banks in Kenya are. with exchange control approval, designated Exter- nal Accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments to such countries by resi- dents of Kenya, with transfers f rom other Exter- nal Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any non-Sterling Area currency (other than Rhodesian pounds) and gold by nonresidents of the Sterling Area to authorized dealers; provided that permission of the appropriate exchange con- trol authorities in a Sterling Area country other than Tanzania or Uganda has been obtained, External Accounts may also be credited with transfers from Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts. External Accounts may be debited freely for pay- ments to residents of the Sterling Area, for trans- fers to other External Accounts in Kenya or in any other Sterling Area country, and for pur- chases of non-Sterling Area currencies from authorized dealers. Nontransferable funds of residents of countries other than Tanzania and Uganda are credited to Blocked Accounts. Subject to prescribed proce- dures, balances on Blocked Accounts may be used for the purchase in Kenya of specified bonds issued by the Kenyan Government or by local authorities and officially quoted in Kenya;5 the redemption proceeds of these securities, which must have a life of five years at the time of acquisition, are transferable, and interest is freely transferable to nonresidents as and when it accrues. Transfers between Blocked Accounts in Kenya, and to Blocked Accounts in Tanzania and Uganda, require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Some imports from all sources are prohibited for reasons of public policy; for protective rea- sons, certain other imports are not being licensed. All imports from metropolitan Portugal, Rho- desia, and South Africa are prohibited. With cer- tain exceptions, imports from Tanzania and Uganda are unrestricted, but many goods imported from these countries require a specific license unless they are of Tanzanian or Ugandan origin. Specific import licenses are required for a number of goods from all other sources and for all goods 5 Such securities must be payable in East African currency and they must not be redeemable earlier than five years from the date of acquisition. 267 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA of Japanese origin. Other goods may be imported without licenses. When the importer has obtained a license from the Director of Trade and Supplies, or if the transaction is covered by an open general license, exchange is provided automatically by an author- ized bank upon application and submission of the necessary documentary evidence. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Tanzania and Uganda are controlled. Author- ized banks are empowered to approve specified categories of current payments up to established limits; amounts above these limits may be approved administratively, and most current payments are in fact unrestricted. The basic allowance for travel outside the Scheduled Territories 6 by adults hold- ing round-trip tickets is K Sh 4,000 a person (K Sh 2,000 for children between 3 and 12 years of age) every two years, which may be taken out in foreign banknotes.7 Travelers to destinations outside Tanzania and Uganda may take out up to K Sh 250 in domestic currency notes; travelers proceeding direct to Tanzania or Uganda may export any amount in Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, or East African shilling notes. Nonresident trav- elers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount they brought in upon entry. Fees for education up to the equivalent of K Sh 14,000 a person for a fu ll scholastic year and fees for other specified purposes may be approved by an authorized bank upon production of evidence of debt. A resident of Kenya may not send as a cash gift to a country other than Tan- zania or Uganda more than K Sh 200 a year with- out specific exchange control approval. Facilities exist whereby nationals of countries other than Tanzania and Uganda who come to work in Kenya as employed persons (not self-employed) for not more than four years may remit abroad as savings up to 33% per cent of their monthly salaries but not more than K Sh 3,000 a month; in addition they may remit funds to cover family maintenance, education expenses, etc., provided 6 Kenya's exchange control regulations define the Scheduled Territories as Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda. 7 Banks are not permitted, without specific approval, to sell exchange for travel to Aden, Burundi, Democratic Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, Malawi, Mozambique, Rhodesia, Rwanda, Somalia, Sudan, and Zambia. 268 that their total remittances including savings do not exceed 50 per cent of their monthly salaries. Expatriates who have stayed for over four years in the Scheduled Territories may continue to effect remittances from salaries as above but those who avail themselves of the facilities for remittance of savings from salaries are not entitled to exchange facilities upon emigration. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain foodstuffs and agricultural products require licenses and may be subject to restriction in order to ensure sufficient supplies for consumption in Kenya. Exports of certain minerals, precious stones, and strategic materials are also subject to licensing. Export licenses for some commodities are required only for destina- tions other than Tanzania or Uganda. Other goods may be exported without licenses. All exports to metropolitan Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be collected within six months of exportation and offered to an authorized bank in Kenya for con- version into Kenya shillings. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 4) must be sold to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in freely foreign cur- rency notes; the import of Kenya, Tanzania, or Uganda shilling notes must not exceed K Sh 250 in value for each traveler unless arriving direct from Tanzania or Uganda, in which case any amount may be brought in. The import by trav- elers of East African shilling notes from countries other than Tanzania or Uganda is prohibited. Capital Capital transfers to all countries other than Tanzania and Uganda are restricted. Specified capital transfers up to established amounts to all countries other than Tanzania and Uganda are approved by authorized banks; all other capital transfers to destinations other than Tanzania and Uganda require individual exchange control approval. Provided that they have not remitted savings from salaries, persons leaving Kenya permanently may transfer their assets up ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution to the equivalent of K Sh 50,000 per fam i ly un it if they take up residence in a country outside the Scheduled Territories; they may additionally every 12 months thereafter, du r ing a period of five years, apply for the release of K Sh 20,000 from their Blocked Accounts. All remaining funds must be credited to a Blocked Account; they may then be invested in approved Scheduled Territory securities, and redemption proceeds become trans- ferable, provided that redemption does not take place earlier than five years from the date of pur- chase. There is no restriction on the investment of for- eign funds in Kenya, but to ensure eventual repa- triation it is necessary to obtain a "certificate of approved enterprise'' for the investment. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production requ ire approval under the East Afri- can Licensing Ordinance. Except in respect of Tanzania and Uganda, all imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase by nonresidents of Kenyan securities on a recognized stock exchange, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remittable, but the proceeds on resale must normally be credited to Blocked Accounts. Purchases of securities outside Tanzania and Uganda by residents are not normally permitted. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Kenya for num isma t ic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the mone tary authorities and au thor ized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require exchange control approval. The import of the following f rom all sources other than Tan- zania and Uganda, and f rom Tanzania and Uganda when originating f rom other countries is subject to individual licensing: jewelry of gold, silver, or p la t inum; goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares, including set gems; bullion in the ingot, bar, or sheet; and gold coins. Import licenses for gold jewelry are issued free ly; those for gold bullion (ingots, bars, or sheets) are issued to goldsmiths only and are issued restrictively, while imports of gold coins are not being licensed. KENYA Changes during 1968 Du r ing the year, a number of commodities were added to the list of those subject to licensing when originating f rom countries other than Tan- zania and Uganda. January 8. The Trade Licensing Act came into force. It reserved the retail, wholesale, import, and export trade in certain goods to Kenyan citizens. January 13. The import from and export to countries outside the Scheduled Territories of East Afr ican Currency Board notes was prohibited. January 26. The ban on trade with Somalia was revoked. February 24. The basic travel allowance for residents of Kenya in possession of one-way tickets was reduced f rom K Sh 5,000 to K Sh 2,000 for adults and from K Sh 2,500 to K Sh 1,000 for children aged between 3 years and 12 years. June 27. The travel allowance for s tuden ts receiving their education outside Kenya was reduced from K Sh 5,000 on departure and K Sh 5,000 on visits to Kenya in subsequent travel years to K Sh 1,000 on first departure and K Sh 500 on visits to Kenya in subsequent travel years. July 20. All dealings in Ethiopian dollars and Somali shillings were exempted from surrender requirements w i th in the area comprising the North Eastern Province and the Marsabit, Tu rkana, Sambu ra, Isiolo, and Lamu Districts, in respect of persons resident in that area. September 12. It was announced that East A f r ican Curency Board coins of any issue or denomination would cease to be legal tender in Kenya on April 10, 1969. September 16. Remittances to the Republic of South Afr ica were prohibited, with the excep- tion of transfers of pensions payable by the Gov- e rnment of Kenya and the East Afr ican Commu- nity organizations to persons resident in the Republic of South Africa. September 16. The Central Bank of Kenya announced t h at it would stand ready to deal with the commercial banks in U.S. dollars. 269 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA September 16. Authorized banks were per- mitted to enter into forward contracts with their customers for purchases and sales of U.S. dollars, on an outright basis, for exports and imports; contracts for over three months required prior exchange control approval. November 15. A revised import licensing list was published as "The Imports, Exports and Essential Supplies ( Impo r ts) Order, 1968." NOTE. —The following changes took place early in 1969: January 23. Revisions of Exchange Control Circulars Nos. 4, 5, 15, and 28 went into effect. The main changes were as follows: ( 1) The basic travel allowance for travel out- side the Scheduled Territories was reduced from K Sh 5,000 for each adult person a year (K Sh 2,500 for children between 3 and 12 years of age) to K Sh 4,000 (K Sh 2,000 for children between 3 and 12 years of age) once every two years. However, noncitizens (including their fami- lies) employed on a contract basis and entitled by virtue of their contracts to home leave more fre- quently than once every two years could be granted the basic travel allowance each time they proceeded on leave in accordance with the terms of their contracts, provided that they did not have their leave salaries transferred outside East Africa. The special travel allowance hitherto available to students and children in receipt of an education allowance was canceled. ( 2) The exchange facilities available to nation- als of Sterling Area countries other than the Scheduled Territories in respect of transfer of their leave salary to the country where their leave was to be spent were extended to non-Sterling Area nationals; they remained limited to K Sh 4,000 a month for a max imum period of six months and continued to entail loss of entitle- ment to the basic travel allowance. The allowance of up to K Sh 5,000 for use outside the Sterling Area available to nationals of Sterling Area coun- tries (other than the Scheduled Territories) whose leave pay was transferred to a Sterling Area country was reduced from K Sh 5,000 to K Sh 4,000 within their total entitlement. ( 3) Nationals of countries other than Kenya, 270 Tanzania, or Uganda who were employed in Kenya for not more than four years by a com- pany, firm, or institution registered in Kenya were permitted to remit up to 33% per cent and not, as previously, 50 per cent of their mon th ly salary, provided that the applicant is the head of the household; the monthly limit for this k ind of remittance remained K Sh 3,000. If the applicant also effected transfers in respect of fam i ly main- tenance or education, the total transfers outside the Scheduled Territories on account of savings, maintenance, and education were, as previously, limited to 50 per cent of the monthly salary. (4) The right to make remittances from sala- ries to which Sterling Area nationals other than Scheduled Territory nationals were entitled when resident in Kenya for a period of over four years was extended to non-Sterling Area nationals. While previously they could be permitted to trans- fer up to 20 per cent of their salaries drawn in Kenya, but not more than K Sh 1,200 a month, or up to 50 per cent of their salaries on account of uncommitted and committed remittances com- bined, they were henceforth given a choice of making such transfers on the terms set out under ( 3 ), above, or under the revised regulations con- cerning emigration treatment set out under ( 5 ), below. ( 5) A person wishing to emigrate to a country outside the Scheduled Territories was normally allowed to transfer up to K Sh 50,000 per fam i ly unit (instead of K Sh 100,000, as previously), from his declared assets as a settling-in allowance to his new country of residence. In addition, the new regulation extended to non-Sterling Area nationals the right previously reserved to Sterling Area nationals returning to the country of their origin, to transfer funds out of their assets every year after their departure. At the same time the max imum yearly amount to be transferred on the anniversary of the date of emigration was reduced from K Sh 40,000 to K Sh 20,000 (limited to five annual ins ta l lmen ts ), and the remittance of these anniversary releases became subject to prior exchange control approval; any balance in excess of these amounts was to be blocked. Nationals of countries outside the Scheduled Territories could not avail themselves of these emigration facilities if they had previously made remittances of savings as indicated under ( 3 ), above. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA1 Exchange Rate System No par value for the Korean Won has been established with the Fund. Since March 22, 1965 there has been a fluctuating exchange rate deter- mined in an exchange certificate market, where the rate is not permitted to appreciate beyond W 255 per US$1. On December 31, 1968 the buying and selling rates of the Bank of Korea for the U.S. dollar were W 281.20 and W 281.70, respectively, and the telegraphic transfer buying and selling rates of the foreign exchange banks were W 281.10 and W 281.90, respectively. Exchange certificates valid for 45 days are issued by the Korea Exchange Bank and other exchange banks against all foreign exchange earn- ings in prescribed currencies surrendered by res- idents. All foreign exchange proceeds, however, may alternatively be exchanged for won at the buying rate posted by the foreign exchange banks. Exchange certificates are in principle required for all foreign exchange expenditures except for pay- ments for imports financed under U.S. aid pro- grams, and payments by commercial banks in con- nection with their banking transactions, etc. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance is in charge of exchange control, subject to the approval of the Cabinet. It carries out policy with respect to pre- scription of currency and method of settlement, foreign exchange operations, payments for non- merchandise transactions, and capital transactions and transfers. The Bank of Korea, as the Govern- ment's agent, executes the above functions in part; it regulates operations in the certificate market and is authorized to intervene in it. The Bank has also been delegated authority to control receipts and payments related to invisibles. The Korea Exchange Bank, whose capital is wholly sub- scribed by the Bank of Korea, has taken over from the latter all its international banking and foreign exchange business. The Korea Exchange Bank and the exchange banks, as well as the branch offices in Korea of foreign banks, are authorized to deal in foreign exchange. 1 In view of changes that took place on J anu a ry 1, 1969 (see note at the end of this su rvey ), this survey presents the situation on that date. Some imports and exports are subject to approval by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry or the ministries concerned. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry has delegated its licensing authority to the exchange banks, except for those commodities that are not explicitly shown in the SITC code. Prescription of Currency All settlements between Korea and other coun- tries are made in convertible currencies. Korea has a bilateral payments agreement with Viet-Nam, but no clearing account has yet been established. An arrangement with Indonesia provides for cer- tain settlements to be effected through escrow accounts, but the account has not been established and no transactions have taken place under this arrangement. The proceeds of exports must be obtained in prescribed currencies (Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, Swedish kronor, or U.S. dollars). The methods of payment on account of other settlements require the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents and Korean workers abroad may maintain foreign currency deposit accounts with foreign exchange banks. Remittances from such accounts and withdrawals in the form of currency notes upon departure from Korea may, in general, be made freely. The approval of the bank where the account is held is required for remittances from balances that have accrued from remuner- ation for services in Korea, air or ship passage fares, or insurance premiums received in Korea, or from exchange deposited in accordance with a decision of the Ministry of Finance (except exchange registered at the customs on entry or remitted from abroad). The deposits may be dis- posed of by sale to a foreign exchange bank at the prevailing exchange rate, and they may be debited for salary payments to foreign employees. Certain residents of Korean nationality, such as the airline and some insurance companies, may maintain current deposit accounts in foreign cur- rencies with the foreign exchange banks. 271 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. All imports require licenses; for certain imports (see below) licenses are issued upon application. No licenses are issued for any goods originating from communist countries and for certain imports f rom all other countries. Imports are divided into three categories: those paid for with Korean foreign exchange (so-called KFX impo r ts ), those paid for with foreign aid funds, and those financed by Japanese reparations (PAC impor ts). KFX imports are classified as automatic approval, restricted, or prohibited items. All commodities may be imported freely (i.e., applications for import licenses are automatically approved) unless they are in a list of restricted or prohibited com- modities. Automatic approval items (728 out of 1,312 basic items in the SITC classification) con- sist mainly of essential consumer goods not domestically produced and certain raw materials and capital goods. Restricted items (508) in a negative list are subject to individual licenses. Prohibited items (76) are mainly luxury goods, items prohibited for reasons of public health or morals, and some domestically produced goods. Imports of raw materials for the production of exports are approved automatically, irrespective of their classification. Foreign aid imports are classified as either automatic approval items or restricted items. In principle, no commodities imported with foreign aid funds are included among the KFX imports, but in exceptional cases payment for imports usually financed with aid funds may be made with KFX exchange. For pur- poses of licensing imports from specified countries, the position of Korea's balance of trade with the country concerned is taken into account. Import licenses are granted only to registered traders; to maintain the status of a registered trader, a m in imum value of US$100,000 of exports is required each year. The commercial terms of payment on which imports may be contracted are regulated, and advance import deposits are required for most categories of imports by the private sector; these are met, for KFX imports, by deposit of exchange certificates at the time of applying for import licenses. The exchange certificate deposits are, in effect, advance payments offset against the import settlement; the won equivalent of any amount of 272 KOREA deposit in excess of the import settlement is repaid to the importer at the time of the release of the relative bill of lading. Imports by the private sector under U.S. aid programs are subject to prior won cash payments of part of the import settlement, and imports with Japanese Property and Claims Funds (PAC imports) are subject to prior pay- ments of part of the import settlement in exchange certificates. Advance deposits for KFX imports, other than raw materials for the production of exports, range between zero and 200 per cent according to the nature of the import, the commercial terms of pay- ment, and the source of procurement (certain clas- sifications of imports incur higher advance deposits if procured from countries within ten days' ship- ping distance from Korea). Advance deposits for KFX imports of raw materials for exports range between zero and 30 per cent according to the commodity and the status of the export produc- tion, i.e., whether the latter is covered by an export contract or an export letter of credit; in some cases, bank guarantees covering the balance of the import value in excess of the advance deposit are also required. Advance deposits for imports of equipment and facilities financed with domestic loans in foreign exchange are, for imports for export industries, 30 per cent for imports from countries within ten days' shipping distance and 10 per cent for imports from other countries; fur- ther payments of 40 per cent and 20 per cent, respectively, are required upon the release of bills of lading, with the balance of the payment settled in accordance with the terms of the loan. For other imports financed by such loans, the advance deposit requirement is 30 per cent, with the bal- ance of the payment settled in accordance with the terms of the loan. Imports of the Government and of government- operated enterprises are not subject to advance deposit requirements. The Ministry of Finance has authority to apply to any import commodity that it deems nonessen- tial a special customs tar iff, which provides for an additional tax of 70 per cent or 90 per cent of the differential between estimated wholesale value of the commodity and import price plus normal profit. The authority has been invoked in respect of a number of commodities. Furthermore, the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Government may alter administratively import duty rates by up to 50 percentage points. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require individual licenses. Payments for invisibles connected with foreign trade transactions and for certain other items, such as banking charges, insurance pre- miums, communication fees, and periodicals, are licensed automatically. There are certain standard allocations for business travel. Moreover, exporters whose foreign exchange earnings exceed, the equiv- alent of US$100,000 a year may use part of such earnings for business travel or other trade promo- tion purposes, such as maintaining overseas branches. In addition, exporters are authorized to use exchange earnings up to an amount of US$5,000 a month for the expenses of their over- seas branches. All residents departing for travel abroad may purchase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$900 a month; they may purchase an additional US$200 for each trip for extra expenses. Students studying abroad may receive a monthly living allowance of up to US$300. For- eign and Korean currency notes may not be exported without special permission. Nonresident foreigners need not register foreign exchange in specified currencies that they bring into Korea and, when departing, they may reconvert unused won notes into U.S. dollars up to US$100, subject to confirmation of the original sale of exchange (up to US$50 without such conf irma t ion); nonres- ident foreigners bringing in nonspecified currencies may be requested to register the amounts involved. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia or communist countries, and exports of certain goods (such as raw cotton, platinum ores, wood charcoal, pulp, and waste paper) to all other countries, are prohibited. Certain exports require individual licenses. All other exports may be made freely under an auto- matic approval procedure. The export proceeds in foreign exchange must either be surrendered to the Korea Exchange Bank or other exchange banks at the market rate or be exchanged into equivalent foreign exchange cer- tificates. KOREA Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds derived from invisibles must either be sold to the Korea Exchange Bank or other exchange banks or be exchanged for equivalent exchange certificates. The import of Korean cur- rency notes requires special authorization. Trav- elers may bring with them any amount of foreign exchange. Capital All capital remittances require approval. For- eign capital investment, loans from abroad, and imports of capital goods on a long-term basis can secure a guarantee of repayment and repatriation under the Foreign Capital Inducement Law. No limits are placed on conversion and remittance of legitimate profits and dividends, and up to 20 per cent of the original capital invested plus any rein- vestment may be repatriated each year, two years from the commencement of operations in Korea. Gold Residents may freely buy, hold, and sell gold coins, gold bullion, and gold leaf in Korea; how- ever, holdings of gold coins currently circulating as legal tender are not permitted, except for numismatic purposes. With this exception, resi- dents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, in Korea or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary author- ities and authorized industrial users. Changes during 1968 January 1. The amended customs law and the trade program for the first half of 1968 came into effect. The prohibited import list was reduced by 31 items, 21 items being transferred to the restricted list and 10 items to the automatic approval list; silver was moved from the prohibited export item list to the automatic approval list. January 1. The name of the Foreign Exchange Bank of Korea was changed to Korea Exchange Bank. 273 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA January 5. Ceilings were introduced on imports with delayed payment. For 1968 these were US$120 million for imports on documents against acceptance terms, and US$141 million for imports on usance terms. January 11. The quota system was adopted for 134 items on the restricted list, licensing of the remaining 327 restricted items being subject to recommendation by relevant ministries; the equiv- alent of US$2.88 million was allocated to cover imports of quota items. Exporters were given entitlements to import some prohibited goods in relation to their export earnings. January 17. The conditions governing foreign currency loan funds for export industry facilities were announced: 22 types of industries were eligible to apply for loans; the minimum amount available to any one borrower was US$10,000, subject to a letter of credit being opened within 30 days of the issuance of the license. January 18. The Regulations on Export Finance were revised to extend export finance to include suppliers of finished products for export. January 31. The number of industries exempt from customs duties on imported raw materials was reduced from 31 to 17 and the items on which duties were reduced were limited to 12 for 11 industries. February 1. Foreign currency loans for imports to be used for export, foreign exchange earning, import substitution, and economic development industries were reduced from 80 per cent to 70 per cent of the import bill. Loans for imports of power equipment were extended up to seven years, per- mitting a grace period of two years. February 5. The licensing of imports on docu- ments against acceptance terms was suspended; it was resumed on February 22. February 27. As an export promotion measure the Government partially revised the Rules for Enforcement of the Trade Transaction Law, in order to strengthen the qualifications of traders and to encourage specialization of trade enter- prises. Under the revised rules, traders intending to start new trade enterprises would be licensed only on the condition that they received letters of credit in the sum of at least US$300,000 and that the trading corporations be capitalized at a m in imum of W 100 million. 274 Overseas earnings of service suppliers and con- structors became eligible for treatment as export proceeds in determining the eligibility to qua l i fy as an importer or exporter. License requirements were lifted for dispatch by mail of commodities valued at under US$500. March 16. Licenses for imports on documents against acceptance terms were to be issued direct to end-users, subject to a limitation of 60 per cent of declared production for imports of raw mate- rials (except for machinery and metal industries and enterprises exporting 20 per cent or more of their declared production, whose fu ll requirements would be licensed). March 18. The Korean Reconstruction Bank, in addition to the Bank of Korea and the Korea Exchange Bank, was permitted to open deposit accounts in foreign currencies on behalf of foreign exchange banks; loans from these deposits were exempted from control by the Monetary Board. May 1. Procedures covering imports for export industries with foreign currency loan funds were announced: 33 industries were made eligible for loans, loans being for 30 per cent of the value of the relative import bill where ocean shipment took less than ten days and 70 per cent where ocean shipment took more than ten days. June 14. The Ministry of Commerce and Indus- try delegated to the Korea Exchange Bank the power of granting permission for exports on a documents against payment basis, on documents against acceptance terms not exceeding 180 days, and on usance terms not exceeding 210 days (previously 120 day s ). At the same time the power of collecting arrears of export proceeds was also delegated to this bank. Exporters were required to export US$500,000 or more a year to be eligible for exporting on documents against acceptance or usance terms; to be eligible for exports on a documents against payment basis, exporters were required to export US$200,000 or more a year. June 15. Procedures regulating the use of machinery imported with allocations from the for- eign currency fund were announced; the end-users of such machinery were required to export up to 900 per cent of the imported value of the machin- ery within five years on the basis of 300 per cent w i th in two years from the date of customs clear- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ance and 200 per cent each year for the following three years. June 17. All local industries manufac tur ing machinery items became eligible for loans from the Machinery Industry Development Fund (pre- viously restricted to industries established with foreign credits). June 29. Under the Export/Import Notice for the second half of 1968, in the export sector, (1) eight items were removed from the automatic approval list to the restricted list, and (2) four items were moved from the restricted list to the automatic approval list. On the import side 35 items were moved from the automatic approval list to the restricted list. An allocation of US$2.2 million was announced for 62 import quota items for the half year. July 3. The Foreign Exchange Control Regu- lations were amended. ( 1) The advance import deposit system was extended to all imports (pre- viously limited to imports under letter of cred i t), and deposits could be fixed at up to 100 per cent for transactions on a documents against acceptance basis or a documents against payment basis, and up to 200 per cent for other transactions; whereas previously the advance deposit requirements were met by the banks, in fu tu re they would be an obligation of the importer. (2) Exporters were allowed to engage in forward transactions in all designated foreign currencies. (3) The right to open nonresident foreign currency accounts was extended to Korean technicians and workers abroad. (4) Foreigners entering the country were no longer required to register undesignated cur- rencies and were permitted to change local cur- rency into U.S. dollars up to US$100 on departure without obtaining confirmation of the original sale of foreign exchange. (5) Remittances of profits to home offices by foreign banks in Korea and trans- fers of business funds from the main offices of for- eign exchange banks to their overseas branches or agencies were made subject to the approval of the Minister of Finance. (6) Applications for exchange for extra expenses for travel abroad exceeding US$100 had to be referred to the Bank of Korea. July 7. Payments for imports with U.S. AID supporting assistance and Special Letter of Credit funds for Viet-Nam were excluded from the for- eign exchange certificate market. KOREA July 8. Articles of platinum were permitted to be exported or imported without the approval of the Finance Minister. Regulations governing export and domestic marketing by enterprises situated in the export processing area were announced. They were per- mitted to market domestically up to 40 per cent of their output when products were processed with locally produced raw materials, while goods produced with imported raw materials were required to be wholly exported. July 9. Advance deposit rates were raised from 100 per cent to 150 per cent for imports under sight letters of credit for 250 SITC basic items. A 10 per cent deposit was imposed for imports on a documents against acceptance basis of about 130 SITC subitems and a 5 per cent deposit was applied to imports on a documents against pay- ment or bonded warehouse transaction basis; these categories were previously exempt from deposits. July 12. Regulations covering the new advance import deposit requirements were amplified, with special reference to the new deposit rate of 150 per cent. August 22. Licensing of imports on a docu- ments against acceptance basis was suspended. September 2. The import of machinery and parts through the Office of Supply for use by the Government and government enterprises was restricted to encourage the use of domestically manufac tured machinery and parts. September 17. The list of "major import items" subject to the levy of special ta r i f fs was expanded by 134 items; 7 items were deleted, with the result that the list amounted to 3,425 items. The changes resulted from the addition of commodities accounting for annual imports of over US$10,000 each and the deletion of items subject to current import embargoes and items with no current import record; revisions were also made to speci- fications of some items. September 26. The import of specified machin- ery parts on the restricted and prohibited import lists was permitted for necessary imports for the domestic manu fac tu re of machinery. If domestic requirements necessitated, the import of items on the U.S. AID import list against payment from 275 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA Korea's own foreign exchange resources would be permitted. November 20. The import of 16 items in the categories of goods of fibers, construction supplies, and machinery, previously only financed with Japanese Property and Claims Funds, was per- mitted from Korea's own foreign exchange resources. November 30. Special restrictions were imposed on the issuance of import licenses for machinery from countries whose exports to Korea were more than double their imports from Korea, provided that the resulting annual bilateral trade deficit was more than US$25 million. December 2. The export and import regulations for the first half of 1969 were published. They become effective immed ia te ly for the items on the restricted import list. December 9. The advance deposit requirements for imports on a documents against payment basis (o ther than raw materials for export production) were raised from 5 per cent to 30 per cent for imports from countries within ten days' shipping distance from Korea. December 31. An Export Insurance Law was promulgated. NOTE. —The following changes took place on Janua ry 1, 1969: January 1. The advance deposit requirements for imports from countries within ten days' ship- ping distance f rom Korea were raised for imports —other than raw materials for exports (a) on a documents against payment basis, from 30 per cent to 50 per cent, (b) on a documents against acceptance basis, from 10 per cent to 30 per cent, or (c) on a sight letter of credit basis, from 100 per cent to 150 per cent for imports subject to customs du ty at rates ranging from 30 per cent to 49 per cent and from 150 per cent to 200 per cent for imports subject to customs du ty in excess of 49 per cent. January 1. The export and import regulations for the first half of 1969 went into effect. All trade with Rhodesia was prohibited. 276 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Kuwa i ti Dinar or KD 1 = US$2.80. The commercial banks' rates for telegraphic transfers on London are KD 0.8550 buying, and KD 0.8593 selling, per <£ stg. 1. Rates for other currencies in the official ma rket are based on London ma rket rates. There is a free market in which exchange other than Israel pounds, Portu- guese escudoes, Rhodesian pounds, or South Afr ican rand may be dealt in w i thout restrictions as to its origin or use, and in which rates, in prac- tice, d i f fer from official ma rket rates by less than 1 per cent. On December 31, 1968, the average selling rate for the U.S. dollar in the official mar- ket was KD 0.361 per US$1, and in the free market it was w i th in a range of KD 0.3605 to KD 0.3610 per US$1. On April 5, 1963, Kuwait notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control legislation in Kuwa i t. Control is exercised only over the pro- vision of exchange in the official market for pay- ments to territories outside the Sterling Area and over the manner of payment to other Sterling Area territories. It is administered by the Kuwait Currency Board. Au thor i ty to provide exchange for imports and related payments and, within limits, for travel is delegated to the banks operat- ing in Kuwa i t. Individual Letters of Recommen- dation, required for other payments through the official market in currencies other than those of the Sterling Area, are issued by the Currency Board. General and individual import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. The limited control over exports is adminis- tered by the Customs and Ports Administration of the Ministry of Finance and Oil. Prescription of Currency Kuwa it is a member of the Sterling Area, and the banks opera t ing in Kuwa it observe prescrip- tion of currency requirements broadly similar to those of other parts of the Sterling Area. Pay- ments to other countries in the Sterling Area except South A f r ica may be made in sterling or another Sterling Area currency. Paymen ts through the official ma rket to countries outside the Ster- ling Area other than Israel, Portugal, or Rhode- sia may be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account or in a non-sterling currency appropriate to the area to which the payment is made. Payments from other countries in the Ster- ling Area may be received in any Sterling Area currency. Apart from payments to the Govern- ment, payments from countries outside the Ster- ling Area are not, in practice, received through the official ma rke t. All settlements with Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are pro- hibited. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all private imports other than foodstuffs; licenses are issued freely, except for wheat, flour, and asbestos pipe. Registered importers handling a variety of com- modities may obtain a general license valid for one year. Other importers must obtain specific licenses for individual commodities, which are also valid for one year. All imports from Israel, including imports of Israeli manu fac tu re and those that contain Israeli materials or are manu- factured by companies financed by Israeli capital, and all imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of oxygen, certain steel pipes, alcoholic beverages, and used trucks and buses are prohibited from all sources. To be registered, the importer must be either a Kuwaiti citizen or a firm in which all partners are Kuwaitis or a shareholding or limited liability company in which Kuwaitis own at least 51 per cent of all stock. Commercial imports normally are limited to registered importers. Sterling Area currencies other than South Afri- can rand are provided freely for payments to residents of the Sterling Area for imports or for other purposes. Imports f rom any permitted 277 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT source may be paid for with exchange acquired in the free market. The banks operating in Kuwait are authorized to provide External Account sterling or a non- sterling currency other than Israel pounds, Por- tuguese escudos, or Rhodesian pounds for pay- ments for imports f rom outside the Sterling Area, provided that they receive a fu ll set of documents covering the import and, when payment is to be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account, that they provide confirmation they are satisfied that the goods will be landed in Kuwait. When payment is made in a non-sterling cur- rency, the banks operate on the basis of blanket or nonspecific Letters of Recommendation which authorize them to obtain non-sterling currencies other than Israel pounds, Portuguese escudos, or Rhodesian pounds in London up to certain limits and to t rans fer them to accounts in the country of the currency involved. When the limits are reached, the banks obtain fu r th er authorizations under new Letters of Recommendation on accounting for the use of the previous allocations. For payments for goods purchased in countries outside the Sterling Area for resale without ship- ment to Kuwait, exchange is provided through the official market only if a bank guarantees that the proceeds of the resale will be returned to Kuwait; however, the proceeds of re-exportation of imports financed through the official market need not be surrendered. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely to residents of other Sterling Area countries except South Afr ica, or to residents of any country other than Israel, Portugal, or Rhodesia in exchange acquired in the free marke t. Payments through the official market to resi- dents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Israel, Portugal, or Rhodesia may be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account or in a non-sterling currency other than Israel pounds, Portuguese escudos, or Rhodesian pounds for expenses related to imports (such as freight and insurance), as part of the arrange- ments on payments for imports and thus subject to the same conditions (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above). The banks oper- ating in Kuwait have been granted general author- 278 ity to sell to Kuwaiti nationals non-sterling cur- rencies other than Israel pounds, Portuguese escudos, or Rhodesian pounds up to the equiva- lent of KD 500 a person for each trip for travel and other sundry expenses outside the Sterling Area, without specific reference to the Currency Board. For business travel, the amount may be increased up to KD 20 a day for a max imum period of three months; this allowance is appli- cable to all members of the fam i ly who accom- pany a business traveler. Travelers may take with them any amount in Kuwa i ti or other banknotes except Israel, Portuguese, Rhodesian, or South African currency. For all other payments for invisibles to coun- tries outside the Sterling Area other than Israel, Portugal, or Rhodesia which are made through the official ma rke t, a separate Letter of Recom- mendation must be obtained from the Currency Board for each paymen t. Such authorization will be granted to provide exchange for medical or educational expenses abroad, if approval is obtained from the competent ministry. Foreign nationals working in Kuwait may remit abroad up to 75 per cent of their basic wages or salaries and, on departure, may transfer their savings. The transfer of income on foreign capital invested in Kuwa it will be authorized up to the amount of net profits, including past earnings, on presen- tation of an audited statement. Similarly, a Letter of Recommendation will be issued to cover pay- ments for business services, if the application is accompanied by an audited certificate. The Currency Board will also issue to Kuwaiti nationals Letters of Recommendation providing an annual allowance in any currency except Israel pounds, Portuguese escudos, Rhodesian pounds, or South African rand of the equivalent of up to KD 3,000 for each family, This may be used for additional travel funds, for personal remittances, or for any other purpose, including the transfer of capital. This exchange is automati- cally available; larger amounts require special authorization by the Currency Board. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of live sheep and poultry are prohib- ited, and those of certain other items, such as sugar and fa t s, may be either licensed or pro- hibited in time of emergency or shortage in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Kuwait. Exports of arms, ammunition, and scrap metal require licenses. Licenses are not required for other exports or re-exports. All exports to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports, except that these must not accrue in Israel pounds, Portuguese escudos, Rhodesian pounds, or South A f r ican rand; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Proceeds from Invisibles No requirements are attached to the use or disposal of receipts in any currency other than Israel pounds, Portuguese escudos, Rhodesian pounds, or South African rand. Travelers enter- ing Kuwait may bring with them any amount in Kuwaiti or other banknotes except Israel, Portu- guese, Rhodesian, or South Afr ican currency. Capital There are no exchange control obligations on the transfer to Kuwait of resident or nonresident capital in any currency. Government agreement is necessary for the participation of nonresident capital in corporations in Kuwait, and a license is required for the establishment and operation of industries in Kuwait; except for petroleum com- panies, 51 per cent of ownership of new Kuwaiti companies must be held by Kuwaiti nationals. Although the Currency Board supervises out- ward capital movements to all destinations, no restrictions are imposed on outward capital pay- ments by residents or nonresidents to other coun- tries in the Sterling Area except South Africa, or to any country other than Israel, Portugal, or Rhodesia if the payment is made through the free market. A Letter of Recommendation from the Currency Board is required if a currency other than a Sterling Area currency is to be transferred through the official market. When a firm in which nonresident capital is involved is liquidated, permission is given automatically for the repatriation through the official market of the KUWAIT nonresident capital involved, in a currency appro- priate to the residence of the investor. Under a resolution of September 1963 of the Ministry of Finance and Oil, Kuwaiti nationals may be granted permission to transfer capital, within limits approved by the exchange control authorities, to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Israel, Portugal, or Rhodesia for investment purposes, provided that the applica- tion is supported by sufficient information regard- ing the purpose of the investment and the country to which the remittance is made. Local banks are granted permission without restriction to invest their deposits outside the Sterling Area except in Israel, Portugal, and Rhodesia. Transfers of capital for other purposes by resi- dents through the official market to countries out- side the Sterling Area are generally not permitted beyond an amount equivalent to KD 3,000 a family per annum (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). Additional amounts are sub- ject to the approval of the Currency Board, which is granted only in exceptional cases. Gold The monetary authorities and merchants regis- tered with the Ministry of Trade and Industry may import and export gold in any form, pro- vided that such gold is not less than 18-carat fine; gold jewelry, however, cannot be imported or sold unless it is properly hallmarked. Kuwaiti nationals may freely and without license pur- chase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Other residents may, on arrival or departure, bring in and take out their holdings of gold in any form, without restriction or license. Imports of gold in any form are exempt from all customs duties and taxes. Changes during 1968 February 1. Imports of industrial and medical oxygen were prohibited. July 16. Decree No. 6/1968 of the Minister of Trade and Industry prohibited the import or sale of gold jewelry not bearing a ha l lmark. 279 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAOS Exchange Rate System No par value for the Laotian Kip has been established with the Fund. The official rate is K 240 = US$1. This rate applies to imports of aid goods; government requirements; 20 per cent or 40 per cent of the proceeds from exports of tin ore and concentrates (depending on grade and o r ig in ); 20 per cent of the proceeds from exports of lumber; 10 per cent of other export proceeds; and specified invisibles. All other transactions take place in an official free market.1 The National Bank of Laos conducts exchange transactions with authorized banks only in U.S. dollars, French francs, and pounds sterling, at rates equivalent to K 240.00 buying, and K 242.40 selling, per US$1. Banks are authorized to charge commissions not exceeding 1 per cent on purchases and sales of these currencies. A Foreign Exchange Operations Fund (FEOF) intervenes in the official free mar- ket to ma in ta in orderly conditions and to counter- act the expansionary effect of the budget deficit. Residents and nonresidents are permitted to maintain accounts in foreign currencies with authorized banks. These accounts may be credited with unlimited amounts in foreign exchange and may be debited for any payments by the account holder. Transfers between these accounts may be made freely. Balances on them may be sold against kips either at the free market rate or, for specified purposes, at the official rate. Administration of Control The National Exchange Office of the Ministry of Finance authorizes imports under the foreign assistance import programs, authorizes payments for invisibles, and records exports. The Foreign Trade Department of the Ministry of National Economy issues export licenses. The four com- mercial banks are authorized to deal, on account of customers only, in foreign exchange at the official and free market rates. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are imposed on receipts or payments, but the National 1 The off ic ial free ma rket rate has tended to settle around K 505 per US$1. 280 Bank provides exchange for authorized payments and accepts export proceeds only in U.S. dollars, French francs, and pounds sterling. There is a bilateral payments agreement with the U.S.S.R. providing for payments to be made through a clearing account maintained in French francs as the unit of account. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are permitted to maintain accounts in foreign currencies with authorized banks (see section on Exchange Rate System, above). Imports and Import Payments All importers must pay an annual registration fee to the Government. Imports of charcoal, bricks, roof tiles, matches, rubber sandals, coffee, ice cream, and soft drinks are prohibited, although import licenses are granted when shortages arise. Imports are divided into two categories: ( 1) those made in accordance with the import programs financed by assistance from Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States; (2) all other imports, for which the importer has to supply his own foreign exchange and which are not subject to licensing. There is a list of commodities which may be imported under the import program financed by the United States (rice, specified petroleum prod- ucts, agricultural and industrial machinery, and trucks and buses2); certain of these commodities may not be imported from specified countries.3 However, those petroleum products for which specific U.S. aid is made available may be imported from some of the countries on the list of excluded countries. Under the various import pro- grams financed with foreign aid, importers apply to the Exchange Office for licenses. After clear- ance in respect of valuation, the exchange licenses automatically become import licenses; for imports 2 In practice, no rice has been imported under the U.S. import program in the past few years. 3 The countries from which goods may not be im- ported under the U.S. import program are Aus tra l ia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Cuba, Denmark, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, South A f r ica, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom, and commun ist countries (de f ined as not including Yugo- s lav ia ). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution under the U.S. import program, the valuation is checked by the U.S. Agency for International Development. Under the U.S. import program, suppliers are paid direct from the Special Letter of Credit opened by the U.S. Government at the Chase Manhattan Bank of New York in favor of the Royal Lao Government, after the goods involved have been certified as conforming to the list of commodities qualified for foreign financing. Under the U.K. import program, foreign exchange is made available by the United Kingdom direct to the commercial banks upon the opening of letters of credit.4 Under the Australian import program, the Laotian Government requests the Australian Government to purchase and deliver to Laos spec- ified goods. The Australian Government makes payment to the suppliers and covers all costs up to the Laotian port of entry, when the goods become the property of the Laotian Government. The National Bank does not make foreign exchange available to pay for imports outside the import programs, with the exception of imports to meet government requirements. However, importers are free to obtain exchange through the official free market for any amount of imports; imports financed in this manner may be obtained from any noncommunist country (see footnote 3 ). Under the import programs financed with for- eign aid, all importers are required to make a covering payment of 100 per cent for letters of credit opened, except for tractors imported under the U.S. program, for which the covering payment is 50 per cent with the balance to be paid within three years after the sale. For customs valuation purposes, the exchange rate for most imports not financed with foreign aid is K 500 per US$1; for all other goods it is K 240 per US$1. Payments for Invisibles Payments for certain specified invisibles that are granted foreign exchange at the official rate of K 240 per US$1 require licenses, which are issued by the Exchange Office. Freight and insurance in connection with imports under the foreign aid import programs are regarded as a part of the 4 Beg inn ing in the early part of 1968, the foreign exchange contributions of the United Kingdom have ma in ly been channeled through FEDF. LAOS import payment. There is a special foreign exchange budget for payments for invisibles at the official rate. The categories of payments for invis- ibles for which the National Bank sells foreign exchange are as follows: official transfers, cover- ing official expenditures by the Government; pri- vate transfers, covering installation allowances of civil servants abroad, study abroad (initial instal- lation, monthly allowances up to specified limits, transport, and other miscellaneous expenses), and family maintenance; and other transfers, covering mostly unforeseen expenses. All other payments for invisibles are unrestricted, but must be con- ducted through the official free market. Travelers may take out any amount of domestic or foreign banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters must pay an annual registration fee to the Government. Exports of gold and silver are prohibited, except when made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. All other exports are subject to authorization, but licenses are automat- ically issued. Twenty or 40 per cent of proceeds from exports of tin ore and concentrates, depend- ing on grade and source, 20 per cent of the pro- ceeds from exports of lumber, and 10 per cent of all other export proceeds must be surrendered in U.S. dollars, French francs, or pounds sterling at the official rate to the National Bank; the remain- der may be kept abroad or with domestic banks or sold in the free market. However, small exporters are required to deposit with the National Bank, prior to domiciling the export license with this Bank, the portion of their anticipated export proceeds that is subject to surrender; the National Exchange Office gives its visa only on export licenses that have been annotated by the National Bank to show that this requirement has been com- plied with. Should an exporter be paid in a cur- rency other than U.S. dollars, French francs, or pounds sterling, he must exchange the part that is subject to surrender into one of the acceptable currencies. Proceeds from Invisibles The following must be surrendered at the offi- cial rate: ( 1) foreign exchange converted by foreign embassies, missions, representatives, and institutions to cover their official expenses in Laos (other than salaries of foreign employees); 281 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAOS (2) settlements received by any Laotian resident from foreign insurance companies; and ( 3) resi- dent companies' foreign exchange earnings from services and other invisibles. Companies surren- dering their earnings from invisibles are entitled to repurchase at the official rate 50 per cent of the exchange sold. Certain public enterprises, such as Royal Air Lao, are exempt from the surrender requirement. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital Capital may flow in and out free from any exchange control requirements, through the offi- cial free market. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form within the country. Banks and residents who are recognized as industrial users or as importers of gold also may freely import gold in any form, subject to payment of an 8.5 per cent customs duty. Exports of gold by or on behalf of physical or juridical persons other than the monetary authorities are prohibited. Commercial imports and exports of articles containing a minor quantity of gold are freely permitted. Changes during 1968 February 1. The surrender requirement for pro- ceeds from exports of low-grade tin concentrates was reduced from 40 per cent to 20 per cent, and that for higher-grade concentrates was reduced from 60 per cent to 40 per cent. November 9. Motor gasoline was removed from the list of commodities eligible for financing under the U.S. import program. 282 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON Exchange Rate System On July 29, 1947 a par value for the Lebanese Pound was established by Lebanon with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. All trans- actions take place at free market rates, which for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1968 were LL 3.1800 buying, and LL 3.1830 selling, per US$1. Pending the establishment of a new par value with the Fund, a "provisional legal parity" of LL 3.08 = US$1 is applied for the valuation of official assets and government transactions in foreign exchange and for customs valuation pur- poses. There are no restrictions on foreign pay- ments. Prescription of Currency In general, no requirements are imposed on exchange payments abroad or receipts in Leba- non. In some cases, transactions with certain countries with which Lebanon has payments agreements specifying the method or channel of payment may be made through specific accounts.1 Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few goods from any source and all imports from Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. All imports of arms and imports valued at over LL 500 of certain other commodities (including wheat, barley, beet and cane sugar, menthol, leather bags, ladies' dresses, industrial machinery, olive oil, molasses, brushes, poultry, gasoline, kerosene, and liquid gas) that are for the most part produced locally are subject to prior licens- ing. Import licenses are also required for all machinery for the installation or expansion of manufacturing plants. Licenses are granted for six months and may be renewed for an additional six months (or longer, for imports of industrial machinery). All other commodities may be imported freely without license. Exchange to pay for imports may be obtained freely through the free market. A municipalities tax of 3.5 per cent 1 These countries are Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ger- many, Poland, Ruman ia, U.S.S.R., and United A rab Republic. There is also an inoperative payments agree- ment w i th Guinea. is levied on the value of all goods imported by sea or air. A surcharge of 10 per cent of the applica- ble import duty is levied on specified textiles and garments. Payments for Invisibles No restrictions are placed on payments for invisibles. Exchange may be obtained freely through the free market. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of a few goods (scraps of iron, cast iron, lead, and t in) to any country, re-exports of certain goods to any destination, and all exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports valued at over LL 200 of a few items —such as livestock, wheat and wheat products, barley, Egyptian cotton, newsprint, petroleum, petroleum products, industrial and agricultural machines and equipment, and certain metals—to any country and all products intended for export to North Korea require export licenses. Re-exports to North Korea are subject to prior clearance by the Ministry of National Economy. Exchange receipts from exports may be retained, used, or sold freely in the free market. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be retained, used, or sold freely in the free market. Capital There are no limitations on capital payments or receipts. Exchange may be obtained or sold freely through the free market. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home or abroad and may freely negotiate gold in any form with residents and nonresidents at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are freely permitted and do not require a license. However, the import, export, and domestic sale of foreign gold coins that no longer are legal tender must be covered by a certificate 283 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON indicating the gold content and weight and issued by the Service for the Protection of the Consumer. textiles and garments was revoked. The sur- charge was reinstated on December 10, 1968. Changes during 1968 August 6. All imports from the Syrian Arab Republic required a special license. August 14. The surcharge of 10 per cent of the applicable import du ty that was levied on specified October 8. An agreement with the Syrian Arab Republic was signed which provided for the amendment of the economic agreement of 1953 and for settlement of various pending matters. The licensing requirement of August 6 was revoked. 284 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO1 Exchange System Lesotho's currency is the South African Rand, the par value of which is 1.24414 grams of fine gold per rand or R 1 = US$1.40. Exchange rates are based on South Africa's fixed rates for sterling against rand and the London market rates for sterling against other currencies. Lesotho is regarded as forming part of the South African exchange control territory2 and of the Sterling Area. By virtue of the Customs Union Agreement of 1910, Lesotho also is part of the South African Customs Area. Payments for 1 Lesotho became a member of the International Mone- tary Fund on Ju ly 25, 1968. 2 For purposes of control over transactions in securi- ties, residents of Lesotho are not regarded as residents of South Africa. transactions that are considered current transac- tions, while subject to control, are not restricted. Inward capital transfers require exchange control approval, but certain types of such transfers are freely permitted by open general licenses. Imports are usually licensed in conformity with South Africa's import regulations, since few Lesotho firms import direct from countries other than South Africa; direct imports from such countries, however, are not subject to South Africa's import regulations. Changes during 1968 December 20. The Fund noted that the South African rand is the currency of Lesotho, and that the par value of the South African rand, as estab- lished on February 14, 1961, is 1.24414 grams of fine gold per rand. 285 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.888671 gram of fine gold per Liberian Dollar or $1 = US$1. U.S. currency is in circulation along with Liberian coinage. Official accounts are kept in dollars and cents. There are no restrictions on foreign exchange transactions. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments There is no general system of import control. A few items (e.g., arms and ammunition, explosives, used clothing, and Pharmaceuticals) require prior licenses. Also, imports of certain goods (e.g., obscene literature and narcotics other than for medicinal purposes) and all imports from Por- tugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Export licenses are required for precious metals, precious stones, ivory, agri- cultural products other than rubber, and certain other items, such as arms, ammunition, and explo- sives. Licenses are issued freely; they serve mainly to enforce taxation or, for agricultural products, to assure certification of quality and origin and to safeguard the monopoly of the Liberian Produce Marketing Corporation. The surrender of the pro- ceeds of exports is not required, and exchange receipts are freely disposable. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for or receipts from invisibles. There are, however, restrictions on the circulation of U.S. banknotes in denominations over $20. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Under an Investment Incentive Code, enterprises undertaking new investment projects may be granted five-year to ten-year tax exemptions and tariff exemptions on construction materials, raw materials, and capital goods to be used in manufac tur ing operations. Other possible benefits include tariff protection, subject to approval of the legislature. Gold Residents may freely and without license pur- chase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are subject to licenses issued by the Secretary of the Treasury; import licenses are issued freely but export licenses are granted restrictively. Changes during 1968 No significant changes took place. 286 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBYA Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Libyan Pound or £L 1 = US$2.80. The Bank of Libya publishes daily buying and selling rates for 12 currencies.1 It deals with commercial banks only in pounds sterling and U.S. dollars, at rates fixed daily. The Bank of Libya's rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1968 were «£L 0.35696 buying, and «£L 0.35772 selling, per US$1; for the pound sterling the buying and selling rates were <£L 0.84857 and «£L 0.85557, respectively, per £ stg. 1. The commercial banks are per- mitted to buy or sell other currencies against pounds sterling and U.S. dollars through their for- eign correspondents or branches. The commercial banks' buying and selling rates for currencies other than sterling and U.S. dollars are based on quotations in London, New York, and other cen- ters abroad. They may not deal among themselves in foreign currencies. Neither authorized banks nor importers or exporters are allowed to enter into forward commitments in foreign currencies. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Libya, which has delegated some of its powers to the authorized banks. Policy relating to import and export licensing is determined by an Import and Export Advisory Council, under the chair- manship of the Under-Secretary of National Economy. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of National Economy; imports of sugar, salt, tobacco, cigars, cigarettes, and ciga- rette paper are a government monopoly. Imports of unprocessed gold are confined to the Bank of Libya. Prescription of Currency The Kingdom of Libya is a member of the Ster- ling Area. Settlements with other parts of the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency or by debiting or crediting Libyan pounds or sterling to a Scheduled Territories Account. Settlements with countries outside the 1 Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Lebanese pounds, Ne ther lands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Tunisian dinars, and U.S. dollars. Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in Libyan pounds or sterling through an External Account or in any convertible foreign currency. All settlements with Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident, as defined by the Bank of Libya, who is gainfully employed in Libya and has been staying in the country for less than six years, is permitted under the existing exchange control regulations to open and maintain a non- resident account in Libyan pounds with any autho- rized bank in Libya. The Bank of Libya permits, in appropriate cases, a nonresident who has stayed in Libya for more than six years to con- tinue to maintain a nonresident account. Legiti- mate earnings from employers of such nonresi- dents can be credited to their nonresident accounts. Similarly, authorized banks have author- ity to credit interest earned on balances in these nonresident accounts. All other credits to nonresi- dent accounts require the prior approval of the Bank of Libya. Funds held in nonresident accounts can be converted into any foreign cur- rency and remitted from Libya, by the authorized banks, without prior reference to the Bank of Libya. Credit balances in nonresident accounts can also be used for the purchase of travelers checks or foreign currency for use by the account holder or members of his family. Funds brought into Libya by nonresident con- tractors undertaking contracts in their own names are required to be kept in "special resident accounts" with a bank in Libya. Payments received in Libya by such contractors in respect of their contracts may also be credited to these accounts. Remittances from Libya to the debit of these accounts are subject to the prior approval of the Bank of Libya. With the approval of the exchange control authorities, funds on blocked accounts may be used for expenditures in Libya up to <£L 500 a year to cover the cost of current visits to Libya by the owner of the funds or a close relative; for payments in Libya of legal fees, taxes, etc.; for remittances to the owner of the funds in his coun- try of permanent residence, up to <£L 1,000 in a calendar year; and for remittances in cases of 287 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBYA hardship. When the funds have been on a blocked Libyan pound account for five years, they qualify for remittance in full to the owner in his country of permanent residence. The blocked accounts of persons who have left Libya permanently are being released in installments; balances credited prior to March 31, 1966 have already been released. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are under open general license and do not require an individual import license. There are two lists of imports subject to indi- vidual licensing. One list comprises some 27 items or groups of items which require no authorization other than an import license; these goods include various foodstuffs and certain local manufactures. Goods on the other list, which contains 7 groups of items, require the approval of the competent ministry prior to the granting of an import license; the goods include drugs and medicines, live ani- mals, and edible vegetable oils. Imports of sugar, salt, tobacco, cigars, cigarettes, and cigarette paper are subject to government monopoly. The Bank of Libya has a monopoly over the import of fine gold. Imports of a few goods from all countries and all imports from Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Exchange permits required for authorized imports are readily granted by the authorized banks, provided that there is a firm contract and any necessary import license has been obtained. However, no letter of credit in respect of the import of consumer durable goods may be opened by an authorized bank without obtaining a cash margin of 25 per cent of the import price. Imports are subject to customs surcharges and additional customs surcharges (see section on Changes during 1968, below). Payments for Invisibles The authorized banks are empowered to approve applications by residents to remit foreign exchange up to <£L 100 in a calendar year for the meeting of genuine personal commitments abroad of a noncommercial nature. They may also approve allocations of travel exchange as indi- cated below. All other payments for invisibles, as well as payments in excess of the approval author- ity delegated to the banks, require licenses from 288 the Bank of Libya. Applications are considered on their merits and are granted liberally. Persons leaving the country may take with them Libyan currency notes not exceeding a total of <£L 20 ( < £L 10 for children under 12); these may not be spent outside Libya. Residents leaving for personal travel abroad, including tourist travel, may, in addition, take out foreign exchange in the form of foreign currency notes, travelers checks, and letters of credit not exceeding a total value of <£L 300 in a calendar year as a basic travel allowance; the exchange may be obtained from any authorized bank in Libya. Children under 12 years of age are allowed one half of this amount. Amounts in excess of the above may be granted in special circumstances. Pilgrims are entitled to a special quota of <£L 300 in addition to the basic travel allowance. For business travel, residents may take out the equivalent of <£L 250 a trip or, subject to a maximum of <£L 2,500 in any period of six months, the equivalent of <£L 20 a day. All fares may be settled in Libyan pounds in Libya. Temporary visitors may take out any travelers checks, letters of credit, or foreign currency notes which they had previously brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are only required for precious metals, jewels, and a few other commodities. Export proceeds must be received through an authorized bank within six months of shipment. Exports of nonmonetary gold (other than for pro- cessing abroad) and vegetable oils are prohibited. All exports to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers checks or foreign cur- rency notes may be cashed only at an authorized bank or at an exchange office licensed by the Bank of Libya. Travelers entering Libya may bring with them Libyan currency notes, not exceeding a total of <£L 20, and other currency notes, travelers checks, letters of credit, bonds, coupons, securi- ties, and other negotiable instruments in unlimited amounts. Libyan currency notes may be repa- triated through banking channels, provided that ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution details are given to establish that the notes were obtained, within the authorized amount, from bona fide travelers from Libya. Capital Many aspects of the activities of oil companies operating in Libya are governed by Petroleum Law No. 25 of 1955, as amended. Under the pro- visions of the Foreign Capital Investment Law of July 31, 1968, foreign capital invested in projects deemed to contribute to the economic develop- ment of the country, as well as profits thereon, and salaries of foreign staff employed on such projects may be transferred freely to the country of origin. Real estate in Libya may be sold only to Libyans, save in exceptional circumstances specified in a law of May 24, 1960 governing this subject. The net sales proceeds after tax of real estate belonging to foreign nationals are freely transferable. Nonresident capital that is not per- mitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Residents require the prior approval of the Bank of Libya to borrow funds abroad. As a rule, residents require prior permis- sion to purchase real estate situated outside Libya or invest abroad in securities. Residents of Libya taking up permanent residence abroad are per- mitted to transfer up to <£L 5,000 for a family; applications for the release of the balance of their assets over a number of years are approved liber- ally. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form other than bars in Libya. The Bank of Libya has a monopoly over the import of unworked gold. It sells bars to domestic gold- smiths in limited quantities, to meet genuine com- mercial needs, at prices announced from time to time; at the end of 1968 this price was <£L 568 per kilogram. Provided that a license is obtained from the Ministry of National Economy, gold- smiths may have such gold processed abroad, after which it must be reimported. Bars purchased from the Bank of Libya must be melted and pro- cessed before they can be sold to the public. Exports of gold not for processing are not per- mitted unless made by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities. Unworked gold is subject to an import duty of 15 per cent. LIBYA Changes during 1968 January 6. The authorized banks were empow- ered to approve applications by residents to remit foreign exchange up to <£L 100 during a cal- endar year for various genuine personal payments abroad of a noncommercial nature. February 18. The list of commodities requiring an individual import license but no additional authorization was reduced from 55 to 26 items or groups of items. The other import list was modi- fied slightly. February 18. Most commodities could be exported on a simple customs declaration. Pre- viously, all goods required an export license. April 20. Automobiles, industrial and agricul- tural machinery, and their spare parts, required an individual import license. May 1. A customs surcharge of 5 per cent of the applicable customs duty went into effect by virtue of Customs Decree No. 6 of 1968. May 26. The Bank of Libya delegated to the authorized banks the authority to approve appli- cations for remittances in respect of goods imported on consignment or on a deferred pay- ment basis when involving a period of over 90 days. Previously, the delegated authority was lim- ited to credit periods of up to 90 days. May 26. Travelers were no longer required to complete a currency declaration form. June 1. The Bank of Libya raised its price for gold sold to local goldsmiths from <£L 479 to <£L 568 a kilogram. June 4. Scheduled Territories Nonresident Accounts and External Nonresident Accounts were abolished. Henceforth, all nonresident accounts were designated only as Nonresident Accounts. The effect was that remittances from accounts held by residents of Sterling Area coun- tries and from accounts held by non-Sterling Area residents were treated on the same basis. June 17. An additional customs surcharge of 5 per cent of the applicable customs duty went into effect by virtue of Customs Order No. 3 of 1968. July 31. A Royal Decree replaced the Import and Export Regulation Law No. 59 of 1957; certain 289 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBYA orders and regulations issued under the latter remained in force. The decree provided for the establishment of an Import and Export Council at the Ministry of National Economy. eligible for the benefits of the law. Investment in petroleum extraction and refining was specifically excluded from the provisions of the new legis- lation. July 31. A new foreign investment law went into effect, replacing the Foreign Capital Invest- ment Law of 1958. A Foreign Capital Investment Committee was established to review applications for foreign investment in Libya. Only firms with a capital investment of at least <£L 200,000 and at least 51 per cent non-Libyan ownership would be August 25. By virtue of a Royal Decree, a fur- ther additional customs surcharge of 5 per cent of the applicable customs duty went into effect. September 1. The bilateral payments agree- ment with the United Arab Republic was termi- nated. 290 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAGASY REPUBLIC Exchange System No par value for the currency of the Malagasy Republic has been established with the Fund. The official unit of currency is the Malagasy Franc, which is equivalent to 0.02 French franc, giving the relationship FMG 246.853 = US$1. The Malagasy Institute of Issue stands ready, in transactions with commercial banks, to buy and sell Malagasy francs against French francs at the fixed rate of FMG 1 = F 0.02. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rates for the other currency concerned, plus or minus a commission. The Malagasy Republic's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and ( 2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, the Cen- tral African Republic, Chad, Congo (Brazzaville), Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except the Malagasy Republic itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only with for- eign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Office of External Finance of the Directorate of the Treasury in the Ministry of Finance and Com- merce, which also supervises borrowing abroad by residents, the issue, sale, or introduction of foreign securities in the Malagasy Republic, and inward and outward direct investment. Most of the exchange control approval authority has been delegated to the authorized banks and the Postal Administration. All payments and receipts be- tween the Malagasy Republic and foreign coun- tries are registered, for statistical purposes only, by the Malagasy Institute of Issue, through the intermediary of the institution executing the trans- fer. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Administration. Import licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Bureau of the Directorate of Commerce in the Ministry of Finance and Commerce, except those for gold, which are issued by the Malagasy Institute of Issue. Export authorizations are issued either by the Foreign Trade Bureau (and its provincial offices) or by other specified public agencies, mainly stabilization funds or marketing offices for agricultural products. Prescription of Currency The Malagasy Republic is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area; since the Malagasy Institute of Issue maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury, settlements with France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in Malagasy francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other coun- tries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries—provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs through Foreign Accounts Francs. in Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of Malagasy banknotes, French banknotes, or bank- notes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments All imports from non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to import licens- ing. For protective reasons, a few imports (mainly edible oils, batteries, certain types of footwear and blankets, used jute bags, used empty barrels, and secondhand clothing) are subject to licensing, irrespective of origin or port of ship- ment; the import of certain other items from all sources is prohibited (including certain types of beer, new ju te bags, and new barrels) or sus- pended un t il fu r ther notice (for example, certain types of pape r ). All other goods that both origi- nate in and are shipped from the French Franc 291 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAGASY REPUBLIC Area, or that originate in and are shipped from EEC countries other than France, may be imported freely. Imports of certain wines and electric batteries are conditional on purchases of domestic wine and batteries.1 Imports of cement and household soap are conditional on purchases of Senegalese cement and Senegalese and Ivory Coast house- hold soap, respectively. For restricted imports from non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area an annual import program is established. The import program is based on the establishment of global quotas that fix the limits up to which specified commodities may be imported. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import licenses (or import certificates for liberalized commodities) entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Office of External Finance or the Institute of Issue. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Resident tourists traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area could between December 18 and December 31, 1968 obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to FMG 25,000 for each person; any foreign exchange remaining after return to the Malagasy Republic must be surrendered. There also was until the end of 1968 an exchange allo- cation for business travel up to the equivalent of FMG 10,000 a person a day, subject to a maxi- 1 For wines, this requ i rement was term ina ted by Notice to Importers No. 962 of Janua ry 4, 1969 but reinstated by Notice No. 966 of May 14, 1969. 292 mum of FMG 100,000 a person a trip.2 The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in the Malagasy Republic is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of FMG 10,000 in Malagasy banknotes. Travelers to France and Operations Account countries may take out any amount in Malagasy banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out any remain- ing foreign banknotes and coins declared by them on entry, as well as foreign currency obtained by reconversion of Malagasy banknotes purchased after entry, but not more than FMG 25,000 may be so reconverted. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports to all destinations of products under quota and of so-called controlled products require an exit permit (autorisation de sortie); these products include coffee, vanilla, cloves, pepper, sugar, and rice. An exit permit is also required for all commodities valued at more than FMG 250,000 and originally imported from a country outside the French Franc Area. Exit permits for roasted coffee are only issued for shipment to France. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Operations Account country must be surrendered. All export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank and a commit- ment to repatriate the proceeds must be under- taken. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account 2 On Janua ry 11, 1969, new exchange allocations for tourist travel and business travel were announced. These allocations were as follows: for tourism, the equivalent of FMG 50,000 a person a year; and for business travel, the equ iva lent of FMG 10,000 a person a day for speci- fied foreign countries and the equivalent of FMG 15,000 a person a day for all other foreign countries. The autho- rized banks were empowered to grant exchange for busi- ness travel up to FMG 100,000 or FMG 150,000 a per- son a trip, depending on the country to be visited, and requests for additional amounts could be submitted to the Malagasy Institute of Issue. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income or proceeds accruing in those countries or from nonresidents must be collected and surrendered w i th in one month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of Malagasy banknotes and coins and banknotes and coins issued by the Bank of France or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of means of payment denominated in a foreign cur- rency. Capital Capital movements between the Malagasy Republic and France, Monaco, and other Opera- tions Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issu- ing, advertising, offering for sale, or introduction of foreign securities in the Malagasy Republic; these controls relate to the transactions them- selves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in the Malagasy Republic, the control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Terri- tories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Foreign direct investments in the Malagasy Republic,3 and Malagasy direct investments abroad,4 must be declared to the Minister of Finance (i.e., to the Directorate of the Treasury in the Ministry of Finance and Commerce) when 3 Inc lud ing those made by companies in the Malagasy Republic that are directly or ind irec t ly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in the Malagasy Republic of foreign companies. 4 Inc lud ing those made through the in termed iary of foreign companies th at are directly or ind irec t ly con- trolled by persons in the Malagasy Republic and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in the Malagasy Repub l ic. MALAGASY REPUBLIC they are being made, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits. The Minister has a period of two mon ths from receipt of the declaration, dur ing which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. The total or partial liquidation of such investments must also be declared. Both the mak ing and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Malagasy investments abroad or foreign investments in the Malagasy Republic, must be reported to the Minister of Finance within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments involving the purchase, creation, or expansion of a company or enterprise or involving control over it. Mere participation is not consid- ered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a com- pany. The issue, sale, offering for sale, or introduc- tion of foreign securities in the Malagasy Repub- lic requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Malagasy Gov- ernment and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, offering, or sale in the Malagasy Republic has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in the Malagasy Republic, or by branches or subsid- iaries in the Malagasy Republic of juridical per- sons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declara- tion, as indicated above; ( 2) loans directly con- nected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between the Malagasy Republic and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; ( 3) loans con- tracted by registered banks; (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed FMG 50 million for any one borrower. The amount of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization must be notified to the 293 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAGASY REPUBLIC Minister of Finance when it is more than FMG 500,000 but less than FMG 50 million. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization, and is restricted. In accordance with the Investment Code of September 1962, as amended by Law No. 65-022 of December 16, 1965, foreign or domestic enter- prises of special interest for the economy may be granted preferential treatment in accordance with an "order of approval" (arrete d'agrement). Such enterprises may benefit from specified advantages relating to import and export duties, income taxes, supplementary allocations above those allotted in the annual import program, the intro- duction of quotas for competing imports, etc. Exceptional treatment beyond the benefits pro- vided for by the Investment Code and other exist- ing legislation may be granted in a founding agreement (convention Nonresident accounts in Madagascar could not be credited with Malagasy banknotes, French bank- notes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. July 2. The import of fully assembled televi- sion sets was freed from quantitative restrictions by virtue of Decree No. 68-325. July 8. Order No. 2781 amended Article 9 of Order No. 2324 by prescribing the sale on the exchange market of any foreign currency received in accordance with the repatriation requirements. September 17. Decree No. 68-417 revoked Decree No. 68-250 and the regulations issued for its implementation. This action abolished the temporary exchange controls. November 25. Decree No. 68-535 revoked Decree No. 68-417 and put into force again the provisions of Decree No. 68-250 and all regula- tions issued for its implementation. This action re-established exchange control in relations with foreign countries. December 17. Decree No. 68-566 prohibited, except with the prior approval of the Minister of Finance and Commerce, all payments and trans- fers by residents to foreign countries or, within the Malagasy Republic, in favor of a nonresident; all imports and exports of gold, means of pay- ment, and securities; and all transactions and transfers leading to the constitution of assets abroad by a resident or to the holding of foreign means of payment in the Malagasy Republic by a resident. All claims on foreign countries or non- residents resulting from exports, earnings, or income had to be collected and, where appropri- ate, surrendered. All import and export transac- tions had to be domiciled with authorized banks. Decree No. 68-250 and its implementing regula- tions were revoked. December 17. Decree No. 68-567 submitted to control by the Minister of Finance and Com- merce all claims and liabilities in Malagasy francs and in any foreign currency that banks in the Malagasy Republic had vis-a-vis foreign coun- tries. This control could be delegated to the Malagasy Institute of Issue. December 18. Order No. 5077 listed the types MALAGASY REPUBLIC of payments that could be made freely, through an authorized bank or the Postal Administration, to foreign countries. Nonresident accounts in the Malagasy Republic could no longer be credited with any banknotes other than those issued by a foreign country. All amounts subject to surrender had to be collected and, where appropriate, sold to the authorized intermediary, within one month of the due date. Such payments could not be col- lected in banknotes or to the debit of a postal checking account in the Malagasy Republic. The due date for export receipts had, in principle, to be within 180 days after arrival of the com- modities. The order also contained definitions of "foreign countries," "residents," and "nonresi- dents," and appointed the four registered banks as authorized banks. Foreign countries were defined as on June 5, above. December 18. Order No. 5078 provided that resident and nonresident travelers could not take out more than FMG 10,000 in Malagasy bank- notes (FMG 2,500 for those going abroad for less than 24 hours). Nonresident travelers could take out any foreign banknotes they had previously brought in, up to the equivalent of FMG 25,000. Imports by resident or nonresident travelers of Malagasy banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes of other Operations Account countries could be made freely, as could imports of any means of payment denominated in a foreign cur- rency. An exchange allocation of the equivalent of FMG 25,000 a person for the period until the end of 1968 was established for tourist travel; for business travel, a special allocation of the equivalent of FMG 10,000 a day was set, subject to a maximum of FMG 100,000 a trip. December 18. Circular No. 7753/FIN/DT established approval procedures for payments to foreign countries. For payments and receipts in respect of imports and exports of gold, the approval authority was delegated to the Malagasy Institute of Issue; otherwise, applicants generally were to address themselves to the authorized banks and the Postal Administration. Payments for any purpose could be made freely up to FMG 12,500. Exchange could not be bought for- ward except for imports covered by a documen- tary credit. Foreign workers could transfer their entire net salary. Emigrants could remit up to FMG 250,000 a person without the approval of the Malagasy Ins t i tu te of Issue. 295 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAGASY REPUBLIC December 18. The Ministry of Finance and Commerce issued Circular No. 7752/FIN/DT to the authorized banks, concerning Foreign Accounts in Malagasy francs and foreign dossiers for securities. The former were defined as com- prising accounts in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any institute of issue main- ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury. With minor exceptions, all overdrafts on Foreign Accounts and all advances to non- residents required the approval of the Minister of Finance and Commerce or, by delegation, that of the Institute of Issue. They could not without prior approval be credited with banknotes issued by the Bank of France or by an Institute of Issue that maintained an Operations Account with the French Treasury. December 18. By virtue of Order No. 5088 an inventory was made of existing claims on foreign countries. December 19. Order No. 5089 required prior approval by the Ministry of Finance and Com- merce (Directorate of the Treasury) to send means of payment, titles to claims or property, and domestic or foreign securities to a foreign country through the mail or by parcel post. The authorized intermediaries were exempt from this prior approval. December 19. Circular No. 8114 established procedures for the domiciliation of export trans- actions and for controls over the repatriation of export proceeds. December 19. Circular No. 8115 established procedures for the domiciliation of import trans- actions and for payments for imports. 296 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Malawi Pound or «£M 1 = US$2.40. The Malawi pound is at par with the pound sterling. The commercial banks base their rates for other currencies on the current London market rates. On December 31, 1968, the rate for the U.S. dol- lar was US$2.39875 buying, and US$2.373125 selling, per «£M 1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Re- serve Bank of Malawi under powers delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. Much of the author- ity for approving normal current payments is in turn delegated to the commercial banks. Import policy is formulated by the Minister of Trade and Industry, subject to the approval of the Cabinet. The Minister is also responsible for the issue of import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Malawi is a member of the Sterling Area and maintains prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom.1 For pre- scription of currency purposes, a distinction is made between the rest of the Sterling Area (the Nonresident Scheduled Area) and all other coun- tries except Rhodesia (the External Account A rea ). Settlements with residents of other coun- tries in the Sterling Area may be made in Malawi pounds through a Nonresident Scheduled Area Account, in sterling, or in any other Sterling Area currency. Payments to residents of countries out- side the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling or in Malawi pounds to the credit of an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Pay- ments from residents of countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia may be received in sterling or in Malawi pounds from an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency freely exchangeable for sterling. Special regula- tions apply to settlements with Rhodesia. 1 Under Malawi's exchange control regulations, all currencies other than the Malawi pound (or any other currency that may be legal tender in Ma law i) are con- sidered foreign currencies. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Malawi pounds held by residents of other parts of the Sterling Area are designated Nonresident Scheduled Area Accounts. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds from sales of any Sterling Area currency, with autho- rized payments to Sterling Area countries by resi- dents, and with transfers from other Nonresident Scheduled Area Accounts. Balances on these accounts may be converted freely into other Ster- ling Area currencies, may be used to make pay- ments to residents of Malawi for any purpose, and may be transferred freely to other Nonresident Scheduled Area Accounts; these accounts may also be debited for payments to the account holder while temporarily in Malawi. Transfers to External Accounts require specific approval. Accounts in Malawi pounds held with author- ized banks by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia are designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited with authorized payments by residents to coun- tries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia, with transfers from other External Accounts held in Malawi or any other Sterling Area Territory, with individually approved transfers from Non- resident Scheduled Area Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any non-Sterling Area cur- rency except Rhodesian pounds by nonresidents to authorized banks. They may be debited for payments for any purpose to residents of Malawi and of any other country of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts held in Malawi or any other Sterling Area territory, or to Nonresident Scheduled Area Accounts in Malawi, and for purchases of any Sterling Area or non- Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds from authorized banks; they may also be debited for withdrawals by the account holder while temporarily staying in Malawi. External Accounts —Rhodesia are accounts in Malawi pounds that are held by persons regarded as residents of Rhodesia. They may only be cred- ited with ( 1) the proceeds from the sale of Rho- desian currency to an authorized dealer in Malawi, and (2) transfers from another Rhodesian Exter- nal Account. The accounts may be debited with ( 1) payments to residents of Malawi for any pur- 297 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI pose; ( 2) payments to the account holder while temporarily staying in Malawi; ( 3) transfer to another Rhodesian External Account; and (4) transfers to the account holders in Rhodesia. Blocked Accounts in Malawi pounds held with authorized banks by residents of any country other than Malawi are credited with nontransfer- able capital sums in Malawi currency which have accrued to nonresidents. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Normally, approval is given for the investment of balances of Blocked Accounts in Malawi securities, provided that these are held in Malawi to the order of an authorized dealer. The interest on Blocked Account balances is freely transferable to the account holder's coun- try of residence. Imports and Import Payments The statutory basis of the principal import restrictions is the Control of Goods Ordinance, which authorizes the Minister of Trade and Indus- try to regulate and control the distribution, dis- posal, purchase, sale, import, and export of any manufactured or unmanufactured commodity. For a number of items,2 import licenses are required regardless of the country of origin. All other goods may be imported free of license when originating in the Sterling Area or, if originating in certain other countries,3 may be imported un- der an open general license. With respect to other countries,4 an import license is required for all commodities except certain items, such as petro- 2 Certain agricultural and food products, new (military type) and used clothing, gold, sugar, wheat flour, cement, flick knives, explosives, arms and ammunition, game traps, mist nets, wild animals, live fish, and copyright articles. Licenses are also required for certain commodi- ties originating in Rhodesia. 3 Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Burma, Burund i, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, Chile, Congo (Brazzaville), Democratic Republic of Congo, Cuba, Dahomey, Denmark, Domini- can Republic, Finland, France, Gabon, Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Guinea, Haiti, Indonesia, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Republic of Korea, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malagasy Republic, Mali, Maur i tan ia, Monaco, Morocco, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Niger, Nor- way, Peru, Portugal, Rwanda, San Marino, Senegal, Somalia, Spain, Sudan, Sv/eden, Switzerland, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, United Arab Republic, United States, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Vatican City, and Yugoslavia. 4 These other countries are Czechoslovakia, Japan, Rhodesia, and all countries that are not contracting parties to the GATT. 298 leum products, exposed cinematographic films, bona fide unsolicited gifts not exceeding <£M 25 in value, samples, advertising materials, etc.; how- ever, licenses are required for, and quantitative restrictions are applied to, only a small number of commodities originating in Czechoslokavia, Japan, or Rhodesia. Payments for imports from all countries must be made within six months after the date of import. Foreign exchange for these payments is auto- matically granted by the authorized dealers, sub- ject only to the presentation of relevant documents and compliance with import licensing require- ments. Individual exchange control approval is required, however, for payments in respect of com- modities originating in a Sterling Area country but shipped from a non-Sterling Area country. Any transfer of funds in anticipation of imports is prohibited, except with the permission of the exchange control authorities. Advance payments may, however, be made for imports valued at up to <£M 50 on production of an invoice or other evidence indicating that the seller requires pay- ment in advance. Imports from any Sterling Area country may be paid for in Malawi currency to a local Nonresi- dent Scheduled Area Account, in sterling, or in any other Sterling Area currency. Imports from other areas may be paid for in Malawi currency to a local External Account, in sterling to an External Account held elsewhere in the Sterling Area, or in any non-Sterling Area currency. Imports from all sources are subject to a cus- toms surcharge of Sl/3 per cent of the applicable import duty. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to im- ports, and also, up to certain limits, for other pur- poses, such as travel, is provided by the commer- cial banks without prior reference to the exchange control. The basic exchange allowance for travel is <£M 10 a day for an adult, with a maximum of <£M 300 a calendar year, and <£M 5 a day for each child under 18 years of age, with a max imum of <£M 150 a calendar year for chil- dren between 10 and 18, and of <£M 100 a year for children under 10. The allowance is not cumu- lative but may be increased by up to 50 per cent if the traveler has not applied for a travel allow- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ance during the preceding three years. These allo- cations are subject to a combined max imum of <£M 1,000 a year for a family traveling together. Exchange is provided, subject to certain limits, for other purposes, such as education, medical treat- ment, fam i ly remittances, and business travel. Applications for amounts exceeding the standard allocations may be submitted to the exchange control authorities. Foreign nationals employed in Malawi on contracts or holding a temporary employment permit are allowed to remit up to two thirds of their current net earnings to their country of normal residence. Travelers may take out up to <£M 20 in Malawi currency and the equivalent of <£M 10 in foreign currency in addition to their basic travel allowance. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of goods of any description that exceed £M 50 in value are prohibited, unless the Con- troller of Customs and Excise is satisfied that pay- ment has been made or will be made in an appro- priate manner to a resident of Malawi not later than six months af ter the date of exportation. Certain commodities5 are subject to export licens- ing, mainly to ensure the adequacy of their domes- tic supplies. Export proceeds in non-Sterling Area currency must be sold to* an authorized dealer. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any foreign currency must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes and coins that may be imported by travelers, but not more than <£M 20 in Malawi currency notes and coins may be imported. The import of currency notes and coins of the former Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland is pro- hibited. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted, with the exception that the tak ing up of loans f rom abroad by residents requires prior exchange con- trol approval. This is normally granted, provided 5 Imp lemen ts of wa r, petroleum products, nickel atomic energy materials, ana certain agricultural and an imal products. MALAWI that the terms of repayment are realistic. Outward transfers of capital, including those to other parts of the Sterling Area, are controlled, but nonresi- dents are permitted to repatriate their investments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original investment was made with funds brought into the country from sources outside Malawi; there are no restrictions on the transfer abroad of dividends and profits of foreign-owned companies. In general, residents are not permitted to trans- fer capital abroad and, with certain exceptions, are required to offer for sale to an authorized bank any foreign exchange which accrues to them. How- ever, residents may purchase foreign securities (except bearer securities) quoted on recognized stock exchanges in the Sterling Area, provided that the securities so acquired are registered in the names of specified nominees and held to the order of an authorized dealer, and that in the event of subsequent disposal of these securities the sales proceeds are permitted to be repatriated by the exchange control authorities of the country con- cerned. All income earned from these investments must be repatriated, and the corresponding foreign exchange must be sold to an authorized dealer. Emigrants are granted exchange as follows: (1) Persons 50 years of age and over who are self- employed and are leaving the country on retire- ment, or those qualifying for a pension in terms of their contract employment, are allowed exchange up to £M 7,500 whether single or married. (2) Married persons who have not reached the age of retirement are allowed <£M 3,000 on departure, together with <£M 250 for each child, up to a max imum of <£M 4,000 for a family. (3) Unmar- ried persons who have not reached retirement age are allowed <£M 1,500 on departure. (4) The balance of the emigrant's funds is blocked, but he is permitted to transfer to his new country of residence a sum equal to the original emigration allowance on each anniversary of his departure from Malawi, up to a maximum of <£M 4,000. Applications for emigrant's allowances, whether initial or subsequent, must be submitted to the exchange control authorities for approval. Residents require prior approval to lend tc nonresidents or to resident firms controlled directly or indirectly from outside Malawi. Approval tc lend to nonresident-controlled firms may be with held if it is felt that excessive recourse is being 299 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI had to local borrowing, and that the firms have brought in insufficient working capital from abroad. Gold Residents of Malawi may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Malawi for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the mone- tary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Minister of Trade and Industry in consultation with the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1968 April 25. For exchange control purposes, the term "currency of Malawi" was redefined to mean any coins or currency notes that are for the time being legal tender in Malawi. April 25. The export in amounts exceeding a total value of 2s. 6d. was prohibited of coins of the former Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland in the denominations of 3d., Id., and %d. December 18. A customs surcharge of 8% per cent was imposed on existing import duties on imports from all sources. 300 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.290299 gram of fine gold per Malaysian Dollar or M$3.06122 = US$1. The Central Bank of Malaysia (Bank Negara Malaysia) stands ready to buy Malaysian cur- rency against sterling at M$7.4040 per <£ stg. 1 and to sell Malaysian currency for sterling at M$7.2900 per £, stg. 1. Malaysian, Singapore, and Brunei currency notes and coins are freely interchangeable, at par and without charges, at the Central Bank and the commercial banks. (The old Malayan dollar, which will cease to be legal tender with effect from Janua ry 16, 1969, is valued at M$0.8571.) The Central Bank has not established official buying and selling rates for other currencies. The commercial banks quote mutually agreed rates for customers for most Sterling Area currencies and for specified cur- rencies.1 The rates are calculated on the basis of quotations for Malaysian dollars against sterling in the Kuala Lumpur exchange market and the quotations for other currencies against sterling in the London exchange market. On December 31, 1968, the market rate for the U.S. dollar was M$3.06 per US$1. Authorized banks are per- mitted to deal forward in all currencies. Malaysia accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment as from November 11, 1968. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Malaysia administers exchange control on behalf of the Malaysian Gov- ernment throughout Malaysia. Much of the autho- rity for approving normal current payments is del- egated to commercial banks authorized for this purpose. The authority for import control rests with the Central Government. The day-to-day administration of import control throughout Malaysia is carried out jointly by the Ministry of 1 These specified currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche m a rk, French francs, Italian lire, Jap- anese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por- tuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Commerce and Industry and the Royal Customs and Excise.2 Prescription of Currency Malaysia is a member of the Sterling Area and generally follows the prescription of currency arrangements and the sterling payments system of the United Kingdom. All payments to and from Sterling Area countries must be made in a Sterling Area currency. Payments to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made either in Malaysian dollars or another currency of the Sterling Area through an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Receipts from exports to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia must be obtained either in Malaysian dollars or another currency of the Sterling Area through an External Account, or in any specified currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of residents of other countries in the Sterling Area are treated as resident accounts. The accounts of residents of countries outside the Sterling Area are treated as nonresident accounts and, unless specially restricted, are designated External Accounts. External Accounts may be credited with the proceeds of any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds sold to a bank in Malaysia, with transfers of Malaysian dollars or sterling from other External Accounts, and with funds eligible for transfer to countries outside the Sterling Area. Balances on External Accounts may be transferred to any other account, whether resident or nonresident, and may be con- verted into any foreign currency except Rho- desian pounds. Accounts of residents of Rhodesia are designated Rhodesian Accounts. All debits and credits to such accounts require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Tariffs and import controls of the various parts of Malaysia have not as yet been unified, although 2 There are at present five separate customs areas: West Malaysia, excluding Penang; Sabah, excluding Labuan; Sarawak; Penang; and Labuan. Labuan and Penang are free ports. 301 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA steps toward fu ll unification are being taken. Some internal tariffs and other trade restrictions still exist between parts of Malaysia. Most imports are permitted freely under open general licenses. Depending on the nature and origin of the goods, specific licenses are required for certain imports for health, security, or moral reasons; certain con- ditions must be satisfied before licenses for such goods are issued. Certain other imports are sub- ject to quantitative restriction pending the intro- duction of protective customs duties to protect local industries. Imports into all parts of Malaysia of all com- modities from South Africa, Rhodesia, or any ter- ritory administered by Rhodesia, and of certain categories of textiles, household articles, steel goods, quicklime, and bicycles from mainland China, are prohibited. In respect of West Malaysia, imports of rice from any country are conditional on the importer purchasing one ton of rice from the government reserve stockpile for every one and a half tons impor ted ;3 imports of wheat flour and rice bran from all sources and imports of suga r4 are subject to quantitative restriction for protective reasons; those of wheat flour are pro- hibited in principle, and since August 1, 1966 no import licenses have been issued. Where necessary, permission is given freely for payments in foreign currency for all permitted imports. Payments in foreign currency are per- mitted freely for goods on open general license; for imports that require a special license, exchange control approval is forthcoming when the license has been granted. Virtually all imports into Malaysia (excluding Penang and Labuan) are subject to a surtax of 2 per cent of the c.i.f. value, unless they are intended for re-export or for export after process- ing. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of the Ster- ling Area may be made freely. Payments related to commercial transactions and personal payments to other countries, except Rhodesia, are, in gen- 3 This ratio is varied from t ime to time depend ing on the turnover of official stocks. 4 Inc lud ing jaggery, rock sugar, and molasses under tar iff codes 061 101, 061 109, and 061 500. 302 eral, authorized. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange made available for travel abroad. Special arrangements permit family remittances to mainland China to be made through licensed remittance shops up to M$45 from a family in any one month, but additional amounts may be transferred through the banking system. Remittances to nonresidents of dividends, interest, and agreed profits on all bona fide investments are subject to exchange control approval, which normally is given freely. Unless special permission is obtained, not more than M$500 in Malaysian notes and the equivalent of M$ 1,000 in foreign notes may be taken out of Malaysia by travelers; there is, however, no restriction on the amount of Malaysian notes that may be taken out of Malaysia by travelers going direct to Brunei or Singapore. Exports and Export Proceeds The three territories of Malaysia at present maintain separate export control systems, although the Federal Government retains the right to legis- late in respect of exports from any Malaysian territory. All exports from Malaysia to countries outside the Sterling Area have to be authorized by a bank in Malaysia and the foreign exchange proceeds sold to a bank in Malaysia. Malaysian exchange control forms have to be completed and authorized by banks in Malaysia for all such exports valued at M$5,000 or more. This require- ment serves to ensure that the proceeds are obtained in accordance with the prescription of currency regulations and are sold to an authorized bank in Malaysia. Exports of rubber from West Malaysia require a certificate issued by the Malay- sian Rubber Exchange. Exports of rubber and tin to South Africa and any territory administered by South Africa are prohibited. Exports of tin to other destinations are subject to a quota. All exports to Rhodesia and any territory adminis- tered by Rhodesia are also prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles The exchange control requirements governing exchange receipts f rom invisibles are, in general, the same as those for export proceeds. Travelers coming direct from Brunei or Singapore may bring in any amount in Malaysian notes, and other travelers may bring in M$500; otherwise, per- mission is required for the import of Malaysian ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution notes. Permission is also required for the import of currency notes of India, Indonesia, and Rho- desia. No limitations are imposed on the import of currency notes of other countries. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers to and from other countries in the Sterling Area. Inward and outward capital transfers between Malaysia and countries outside the Sterling Area require exchange control approval; such approval is freely granted for inward transfers, but the sub- sequent utilization of nonresident-owned funds in Malaysia in most cases is subject to individual exchange control approval. Investment by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia in quoted stocks and bonds is freely permitted if made through a recognized stock exchange with funds from an External Account or transferred in a specified currency; investment in stocks and bonds is subject to individual approval if it is to be made otherwise. Investments in new industrial and development projects that have been approved by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry are not restricted. The transfer to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area of capital held or accru- ing in Malaysia is generally permitted but requires prior exchange control approval. Investments by Malaysian nationals in countries outside the Ster- ling Area may be made upon approval of the exchange control authorities; this is given only when such investments are considered to serve the economic interest of the country. Gold Residents other than authorized dealers in gold are not permitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than gold that has been manu- factured into jewelry or ornaments. The manu- facture of gold coins is prohibited, as is domestic trading in gold coins (unless these are part of ornaments, dealing in which is unrestricted). Goldsmiths are, however, permitted by the exchange control authorities to purchase certain quantities of gold from an authorized dealer at free market prices for the manufacture of bona fide jewelry and ornaments. Furthermore, pro- ducers of gold are permitted to sell their output at free market prices to authorized dealers in gold. MALAYSIA Imports of gold are restricted under the Customs Act, 1967, and require licenses from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, which may consult the exchange control authorities. Permission for imports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler is not normally given except for imports by authorized dealers to meet the genuine requirements of gold- smiths for manufacturing jewelry and ornaments and for industrial uses. The importation of gold into West Malaysia is only allowed to authorized dealers in gold, subject to an over-all quota of 30,000 ounces a quarter; a certain amount of gold is permitted to be imported into East Malay- sia solely for manufacture of ornaments. Imports are subject to a 2 per cent import duty and a 2 per cent surtax. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler are prohibited. Changes during 1968 January 1. The Investment Incentives Act 1968 came into effect throughout Malaysia. It was intended to be read and construed as one with the Income Tax Act 1967 and superseded the Pioneer Industries (Relief from Income Tax) Ordinance, 1958. The Act embodies in a single law all the fiscal incentives, including pioneer status, designed to encourage the establishment and development of commercial and industrial enterprise in Malaysia. January 1. The Customs Act 1967 came into effect. It consolidated most of the provisions of the Customs Ordinances of the States of Malaya, Sabah, and Sarawak; these Ordinances were repealed by the new Act. January 4. Imports of fertilizers were freed from specific licensing. January 4. Imports of ceiling fans were made subject to quantitative restriction. January 18. The Government announced vari- ous changes in import duties, including a reduc- tion of the import duty on gold from 10 per cent to 2 per cent. February 29. The Banking (Amendmen t) Bill 1967 amended the Banking Ordinance 1958. Among the new provisions was a requirement that foreign banks operating in Malaysia must hold net assets of not less than M$2 million in Malaysia. 303 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA March 18. To facilitate transactions involving Malaysia and Singapore currencies, the Central Bank opened an account in Singapore currency for its use in Singapore with the Accountant- General of Singapore, and the Accountant- General of Singapore opened a similar account in Malaysian currency with the Central Bank of Malaysia for his use in Malaysia. The interchangeability of the two currencies, previously limited to notes and coins, was extended to banking balances. March 21. The 2 per cent customs surcharge was suspended for imports to Penang. April 9. Imports of iron and steel angles for piling and iron and steel bars and rods were made subject to quantitative restriction. April 25. Imports of tea and tubular fluores- cent lamps were made subject to quantitative restriction. May 9. Imports of fishing nets were made sub- ject to quantitative restriction. May 20. A trade agreement with Bulgaria was signed, which provided for most-favored-nation treatment in matters of trade (including customs duties and the issuance of import and export licenses) and shipping and for nondiscriminatory application of import restrictions. Payments in respect of current transactions were to be made in convertible currencies. The agreement entered into force immediately. June 1. All exports from Malaysia to countries outside the Sterling Area would henceforth have to be authorized by a bank in Malaysia and the foreign exchange proceeds sold to a bank in Malaysia. Malaysian exchange control forms had to be completed and authorized by banks in Malaysia for all such exports valued at M$5,000 (previously M$20,000) or more. Prior to June 1, the foreign exchange proceeds of goods sold to non-Sterling Area countries through intermediaries in the United Kingdom or Singapore and shipped direct from Malaysia were exempt from the requirement that foreign exchange proceeds be sold to a bank in Malaysia. June 4. Malaysia, Singapore, and Brunei agreed that the old Malayan currency would cease to be legal tender from January 16, 1969. 304 July 4. Imports of fish meal, bicycles and parts, cotton towels, terry towels, and cotton terry fab- rics were made subject to quantitative restriction. July 11. Imports of rolled oats were made sub- ject to quantitative restriction. July 25. Imports of ceiling fans were freed from quantitative restriction. July 25. Imports of refrigerator parts were made subject to specific licensing. August 1. Imports of iron and steel angles for piling and iron and steel bars and rods were freed from quantitative restriction. However, many cate- gories of iron and steel products, including pig iron, iron or steel shot, and steel ingots and coils, were made subject to quantitative restriction. August 7. It was announced that Malaysia would adopt the Brussels tariff nomenclature from January 1, 1969. September 5. The import quotas for the period from September 1, 1968 to February 28, 1969 were announced for passenger automobiles (1 per cent of 1966 sales), commercial vehicles (1 per cent of 1966 sales or nil, depending on weight), motorcycles (50 per cent of 1966 imports) and motor scooters (n i l ). September 5. Imports of quicklime from main- land China were prohibited. September 7. It was announced that authorized dealers in gold in West Malaysia would be per-, mitted to import gold, provided that they sold it direct to goldsmiths and jewelers. Such imports would be limited to 30,000 ounces per quarter. Previously, no imports of gold into West Malaysia were allowed, although a certain amount was (and continued to be) permitted to be imported into East Malaysia solely for the manufacture of orna- ments. September 12. Imports of razor blades were made subject to specific licensing. September 19. Imports of iron and steel bars and rods were made subject to quantitative restriction. Imports of casting machines for use in metallurgy and in metal foundries, ovens, and fur- naces were made subject to specific licensing. September 19. Exports of tin became subject to a quota. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA October 1. The amount of foreign notes which travelers to any country outside Malaysia may take with them was reduced from the equivalent of <£250 a person to M$ 1,000 a person. from any source of gold in any form (including jewelry or ornaments) became subject to special license. Previously, a license was not required for imports from other parts of Malaysia. October 1. The system of quoting foreign cur- rencies in terms of local currency was amended. Quotations were expressed in terms of a variable amount of Malaysian dollars to one unit or 100 units of foreign currency. In the quotations, parts of a Malaysian dollar were expressed in decimals instead of fractions. October 3. By an amendment to Schedule B of the Customs Order, 1962, imports into Sabah November 11. Malaysia accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. December 12. Imports of pumps and machin- ery used in sugar manufacturing and of centri- fuges and filtering and purifying apparatus for liquids and gases were made subject to specific licensing. 305 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI1 Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of the Republic of Mali has been established with the Fund. The official unit of currency is the Mali Franc, defined as a monetary unit containing 0.0018 gram of fine gold. The Mali franc is officially maintained at the rate of MF 1 =0.01 French franc. Parity rates for the CFA franc and the U.S. dollar are MF 2 and MF 493.706, respectively. Purchases and sales of French francs and CFA francs are made by the Central Bank at their respective pari- ties. Rates for other currencies generally are based on those in the Paris exchange market. Bilateral payments arrangements with a number of coun- tries (see section on Prescription of Currency, below) provide for settlements of transactions covered by these arrangements through accounts denominated either in Mali francs or in other specified currencies; rates for these specified cur- rencies are unitary. The Development Bank of Mali is in charge of settlements covered by bilateral payments agree- ments. Settlements with other countries are gener- ally made directly with the countries concerned. Mali's exchange control measures do not apply to relations with France and other Operations Account countries. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance and Economic Affairs has sole authority in exchange control matters; certain exchange control powers have been dele- gated to authorized banks. The bilateral payments agreements are operated by the Development Bank of Mali. Licenses for imports are issued by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments arrangements are made in currencies and through accounts established under such agreements. Bilateral accounts are main- tained with Algeria, Bulgaria, mainland China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Ghana, Guinea, Hungary, Morocco, Poland, Rumania, Senegal, the U.S.S.R., the United Arab Republic, North Viet-Nam, and Yugoslavia.2 Mali is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since its Central Bank main- tains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in Mali francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Oper- ations Account country. Settlements with all other countries with which no payments agreement is in force are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries—provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market—or in French francs through Foreign Accounts Francs. in Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of Malian banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few commodities are prohibited for health, safety, and similar reasons. Imports of all other goods require individual licenses, and imports from foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Import licenses are of two kinds—licenses which require foreign ex- change and licenses "without foreign exchange" for transactions to be financed by the importer with funds he holds abroad or receives under the EXIC procedure (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below). Imports are licensed in accordance with an annual import program drawn up by a joint French-Malian Committee. The program consists 1 In view of changes that took place early in 1969 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position on January 16, 1969. 2 The payments arrangements with Algeria, Morocco, and Senegal are inoperative. 306 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of two parts: an allocation for clearing countries and one for the convertible area (defined as com- prising all other countries, including the French Franc Area). Imports may be made either by private import- ers or by state enterprises, among which the Societe Malienne de 1'Import-Export (SOMIEX) is by far the most important, having a monopoly over the import of 11 items.3 All imports from and exports to countries that have payments agreements with Mali are made by SOMIEX or Unicoop. An allocation commission establishes quotas for each private importer on the basis of his turn- over and the number of his employees. Import licenses are issued to the private importer up to the limit of the quota accorded to him. In addi- tion, importers may import any goods "without foreign exchange" or under the EXIC procedure. The authorized banks are permitted to make foreign exchange available for all licensed imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other coun- tries are subject to approval. Payments for invisi- bles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France and the other Oper- ations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to MF 50,000 a year for each person; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Mali must be surrendered. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equiv- alent of MF 20,000 a day, subject to a maximum of MF 200,000 a trip, for travel to foreign coun- tries. The transfer of the entire salary of a for- eigner working in Mali is permitted upon presen- 3 Flour, milk, salt, sugar, oil, tea, soap, matches, cigarettes, cement, and empty bags; trade in these com- modities is reserved for SOMIEX. MALI tation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Travelers going to foreign coun- tries may take out up to a maximum of MF 20,000 in Malian banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries (MF 5,000 for trips of less than 24 hou rs ). Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in Malian banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank, and export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Operations Account country must be surrendered. Exports require individual licenses in order to assure the repatriation of export pro- ceeds. The export of cotton from irrigated land, groundnuts, hides, skins, and meat, which consti- tute most of the controlled export trade, is reserved for state enterprises, but certain mixed enterprises may have a share allocated to them. Under the EXIC (Exportation et Importation Concomitante) procedure, exporters may retain 75 per cent of proceeds from exports except those covered by the monopoly of state trading com- panies and cotton exported by the Compagnie Fran^aise pour le Developpement des Fibres Textiles (CFDT), for payment for their own imports that are made through regular official channels. Balances on EXIC accounts and import rights under the EXIC procedure are not trans- ferable. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the Central Bank of Mali, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Oper- 307 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI ations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Mali, France, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (in addition to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad; the Develop- ment Bank of Mali is exempt. The special control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) or to countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Foreigners leaving Mali permanently are per- mitted to transfer abroad ( 1) funds up to a total of six months' salary, resulting from the sale of personal property that was in their possession for at least six months, and (2) savings out of their salary and income earned in Mali, provided that they have not taken advantage of transfer privi- leges in respect of their salary. Funds specified under ( 1) and (2) may be transferred abroad in five equal annual installments. Nonresident enterprises operating in Mali are permitted to transfer abroad in ten equal install- ments funds accruing from the partial or total liquidation of such enterprises. Funds mentioned in this and the preceding paragraph that are kept on special foreign accounts with the Central Bank bear 3 per cent interest a year, which is trans- ferable. All or part of certain categories of funds in Mali francs owned by nonresidents may be used to purchase 3 per cent 20-year bonds issued by the Bank of the Republic or to make investments that are approved by the Ministry of Planning. Proceeds from the amortization of bonds as well as interest on them may be transferred abroad. According to Law No. 62 of January 15, 1962, the Government may grant special privileged 308 status, providing for transfer, tax, and other pref- erential treatment, to nonresident investments that would be of special interest to the Malian economy and that are compatible with the goals of the Economic Plan. Under this law, each foreign investment is treated individually. Preferential investment treatment may permit ( 1) the transfer of profits during a period not exceeding 15 years and the repatriation of pro- ceeds accruing from the liquidation of an invest- ment or (2) the transfer during a period to be established in each case of agreed amounts that would include the value of investments and profits, the maximum yearly rate of which is also to be agreed. In the latter instance, an enterprise becomes the property of the Government without any indemnity, after the established period has lapsed. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Mali for numismatic purposes and for ornaments. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Minis- try of Finance and Economic A f fa i rs; such licenses are not normally granted. Changes during 1968 February 28. The import program for 1968 was established. It provided for total imports from all sources valued at MF 18.5 billion, of which MF 10.8 billion was reserved for imports from the convertible area. March 20. The provisions of the Yaounde Con- vention concerning the right of establishment were put into effect. March 29. The Central Bank of Mali replaced the Bank of the Republic of Mali and established an Operations Account with the French Treasury. The Mali franc became convertible into French francs at a fixed rate of MF 100 = F 1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution March 29. Order No. 240/MF-CAB of the Minister of Finance was issued, which had as its purpose the liberalization of exchange control in line with the existing legislation of the other Oper- ations Account countries of the French Franc Area. In consequence, financial and trade pay- ments, both inward and outward, were entirely free. The surrender requirements for export pro- ceeds and earnings from services were revoked. Imports remained subject to a license or equiv- alent document, but not the corresponding pay- ments. The global import program established in February remained in force. Moves were initiated to terminate existing bilateral payments agree- ments. As far as manual exchange is concerned, the sale of foreign currency against Mali francs was limited to the equivalent of MF 50,000 for each traveler; importation and exportation of Malian currency was unrestricted. The countries of the West African Monetary Union were requested to rescind any prohibitions on the import or nego- tiation of Malian currency. The import or export of gold, other precious metals, and precious stones required prior authorization. Prior approval was also required for borrowing abroad (i.e., in coun- tries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries); the Development Bank of Mali was exempt. A beginning was made with the transfer of arrears and the release of blocked funds. March 29. The stamp tax levied on applica- tions for financial transfers was abolished. April 1. The special payments arrangements with Niger were terminated. June 7. Instruction No. 1 re-established tempo- rary exchange controls in relations with foreign countries. These were defined as all countries other than France and the other Operations Account countries. The instruction listed the types of payments to foreign countries that could be made freely through an authorized bank. Non- resident accounts in Mali could not be credited with banknotes issued in France or in countries having an Operations Account with the French Treasury. An exchange allocation of the equiv- alent of MF 100,000 a person a trip was intro- duced for travel to foreign countries. The export by travelers to foreign countries of Malian bank- notes was limited to MF 100,000 a person a trip. The provisions of Order No. 240, insofar as they were contrary to the new measures, were sus- pended. MALI NOTE. —The following changes took place early in 1969: January 7. The existing exchange controls in relations with foreign countries were reinforced. Order No. 69-11/MPF-AE-CAB prohibited, ex- cept with the prior approval of the Minister of Planning, Finance, and Economic Affairs, all payments and transfers by residents to foreign countries, or within Mali, in favor of a nonresi- dent; all imports and exports of gold, other pre- cious metals, precious stones, means of payment, and securities; and all transactions and transfers leading to the constitution of assets abroad by a resident, or to the holding of foreign means of payment in Mali by a resident. All claims on for- eign countries or nonresidents resulting from exports, earnings, or income had to be collected and, where appropriate, surrendered. All import and export transactions relating to foreign coun- tries had to be domiciled with an authorized bank. The order also submitted to control by the Minister of Planning, Finance, and Eco- nomic Affairs all claims and liabilities in Mali francs and in any foreign currency that banks in Mali had vis-a-vis foreign countries. The provi- sions of Order No. 240 were suspended insofar as they were contrary to those of the new order. January 7. Circular No. 3/MPF-AE-CAB listed the types of payments that could be made freely, through an authorized bank, to foreign countries. Nonresident accounts in Mali could no longer be credited with Mali banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Ac- count with the French Treasury. All amounts sub- ject to surrender had to be collected and, where appropriate, sold on the exchange market, within one month of the due date. Such payments could not be collected in banknotes or to the debit of a postal checking account in Mali. The due date for export receipts had in principle to be within 180 days after arrival of the commodities. The circu- lar also contained definitions of "foreign coun- tries," "residents," and "nonresidents." The Cen- tral Bank and three other banks were appointed 309 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI authorized banks. Foreign countries were defined as all countries other than France and the Opera- tions Account countries. January 7. Circular No. 2/MPF-AE-CAB pro- vided that resident and nonresident travelers could not take out more than MF 20,000 in Malian banknotes; they could alternatively take out the equivalent in foreign currency, in addition to the foreign currency allowances mentioned below. Imports by resident or nonresident travelers of Malian banknotes, French banknotes, and bank- notes of other Operations Account countries would be free, as would be imports of any means of payment denominated in a foreign currency. An exchange allocation of the equivalent of MF 50,000 a person a year was established for tourist travel by residents. For business travel, there was a special allocation of the equivalent of up to MF 20,000 a day, subject to a maximum of MF 200,000 a trip; with special authorization by the Minister, this maximum could be exceeded. Persons going to a foreign country for less than 24 hours could not take out more than MF 5,000 in Mali francs, French francs, or CFA francs. January 16. The import program for 1969 was established at MF 15.7 billion, of which MF 5.6 billion was allocated to the clearing coun- tries and MF 10.1 billion to the convertible area. 310 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA1 Exchange Rate System No par value for the Malta Pound has been established with the Fund. Exchange rates are based on the statutory parity of <£M 1 = 2.13281 grams of fine gold, established by the Central Bank of Malta Act, 1967. The Central Bank's basic rate for the pound sterling on December 31, 1968 was £100 % buying, and £99 7/s selling, per <£M 100. Commercial bank rates are based on London market rates for sterling against other cur- rencies. Certain capital transactions are channeled through the investment currency and property currency markets in the United Kingdom. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Treasury; trade controls are administered by the Director of Trade in the Ministry of Trade. Cer- tain authorities to approve applications for the allocation of foreign exchange have been delegated to the authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Malta is a member of the Sterling Area,2 and settlements between residents of Malta and res- idents of other Sterling Area countries may be made freely in sterling or another Sterling Area currency. Authorized payments to other countries may be made by crediting sterling or Malta pounds to an External Account or in any non-Sterling Area currency; the proceeds of exports to such :ountries may be received in sterling or Malta pounds from an External Account or in any for- eign currency. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between the accounts of residents of Malta and those of residents of other parts of the Sterling Area (except Hong Kong), and the funds on all such accounts are freely transferable within the Sterling Area. Residents of countries outside the Sterling Area may maintain 1 Malta became a member of the International Mone- tary Fund on September 11, 1968. 2 Malta's exchange control definition of the Sterling Area (the Scheduled Territories) includes Rhodesia by general def in i t ion. with authorized banks nonresident accounts in Malta pounds, designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with autho- rized payments by residents of the Sterling Area, with transfers from other External Accounts, with the proceeds from sales of gold or non-Sterling Area currency (including bankno tes), and with Malta or other Sterling Area banknotes mailed from outside the Sterling Area. External Accounts may be debited freely for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, for payments in cash in Malta, and for purchases of any non-Sterling Area currency (including banknotes) or gold. Blocked Accounts are maintained for nonres- idents for certain funds of a capital nature which, under the existing exchange control regulations, may not be transferred outside Malta. The prin- cipal type of funds that must be credited to a Blocked Account are assets of emigrants in excess of the amount of <£M 5,000 for each family that may be transferred to the new country of res- idence; the remaining funds are released four years after the date of departure. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain commodities manufactured in Malta are prohibited. All imports from Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hun- gary, Japan, North Korea, North Viet-Nam, Poland, Rhodesia, Rumania, and the U.S.S.R. are subject to specific licensing, as are imports of 65 items from any country of origin. Imports that are not prohibited and do not require a specific license may be freely imported under open general license. Payments for all authorized imports may be made freely, provided that the prescription of currency regulations are complied with. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made freely. All payments to countries outside the Sterling Area require the approval of the exchange control authorities; the approval authority has been dele- gated to authorized banks for certain types of pay- ment. There is a standard exchange allocation for tourist travel outside the Sterling Area of the 311 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA equivalent of <£M 250 a person a year plus <£M 250 a person a trip; a business travel allow- ance of <£M 250 or <£M 20 a day (for up to 30 days a t r ip ), whichever is the larger; and an allowance for educational expenses outside the Sterling Area of <£M 450 a person a year for primary and secondary schools and <£M 750 a person a year for universities—each may be com- bined with a supplementary boarding or accom- modation allowance of the equivalent of <£M 400 a year.3 Applications for allowances in excess of these amounts are approved by the Treasury if the latter is satisfied that there is no illicit capital out- flow involved. Profits, dividends, and interest for approved foreign investments may be transferred after payment of any charges and taxes due. Life insurance may not be contracted with insurers res- ident in non-Sterling Area countries. Maintenance remittances to beneficiaries outside the Sterling Area are allowed on application accompanied by documentary evidence of hardship. Travelers may export Malta and sterling banknotes up to an aggregate of <£M 25 for each person. Exports of other currencies may be made by resident travelers up to <£M 250 for each person and by nonresident travelers up to <£M 100 for each person or up to the amount brought in, whichever is higher. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of works of art and strategic war mate- rial are prohibited and, with the exception of 53 items that may be exported freely, all other exports are subject to specific licensing. The pro- ceeds of exports received in non-Sterling Area currencies are subject to surrender within six months of shipment. There are no surrender requirements for proceeds received in Sterling Area currencies. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in non-Sterling Area currencies must be offered for sale to an autho- rized bank; receipts in Sterling Area currencies need not be surrendered. Travelers may bring in any amount in Maltese and other currency notes. 3 For purposes of exchange allocations for travel and study purposes, residents are defined as physical persons who have spent at least three years in Malta or intend to reside in Malta for at least three years. 3 12 Capital No control is exercised over capital receipts or payments from or to other Sterling Area countries; however, the Minister of Finance has the power to prohibit any capital transactions involving the exchange of Maltese currency against the currency of another Sterling Area country, or vice versa, which he is satisfied are to the detriment of Malta. Receipts in non-Sterling Area currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized bank, and pay- ments of a capital nature in those currencies require prior approval. Applications for direct investment outside the Sterling Area by residents of Malta and for direct investment in Malta by nonresidents of the Sterling Area are considered on their merits. The purchase of real estate in Malta by non-Sterling Area residents requires exchange control approval but is not restricted. Purchases of foreign securities require prior per- mission from the authorities. Purchases of non- Sterling Area securities must be financed with investment currency acquired in the London market. Purchases of personal real estate situated outside the Sterling Area must similarly be financed with property currency acquired in the London market and require prior exchange control approval. Non-Sterling Area nationals who repatriate or take up residence outside the Sterling Area, and Maltese who emigrate to countries outside the Sterling Area, may transfer abroad up to <£M 5,000 for each family. Any excess amount is deposited in a Blocked Account. Gold Residents other than authorized banks and registered jewelers are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. A specific import license is required for imports of gold bullion and manu- factured or semimanufactured articles of gold; imports of filigree work of gold or silver are pro- hibited. Authorized banks are permitted to import gold (bullion and coins) only for the purpose of disposing of it to jewelers and other industrial users, within an annual quota that is divided among industrial users. The export of gold by resi- dents other than the monetary authorities requires the permission of the exchange control authorities; such permission is not normally granted, and the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA export of gold bullion is prohibited. Gold bullion and gold coins are free of import duty. versa, which he was satisfied were to the detriment of Malta. Changes during 1968 June 7. The statutory parity of the Malta pound was changed to the equivalent of 2.13281 grams of fine gold, on the coming into force of Sec- tion 38 (1) of the Central Bank of Malta Act, 1967. July 29. The Minister of Finance was empow- ered to prohibit any capital transactions involving the exchange of Maltese currency against the cur- rency of another Sterling Area country, or vice August 9. The import of lard and cooking fats was made subject to specific licensing. October 28. Malta ceased to invoke Arti- cle XXXV of the GATT in respect of Japan. November 22. The Central Bank of Malta Act, 1967 was amended to enable the Bank, with the approval of the Minister of Finance, to open accounts and place deposits with commercial banks and financial institutions in Malta, and to pay interest on approved special accounts. 313 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA a Exchange System No par value for the currency of Mauritania has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.2 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and commercial banks in Mauritania take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange rates for other cur- rencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. The negotiation in Mauritania of the currencies of Guinea, Israel, Portugal, and South Africa is prohibited. All countries except Mauritania itself are con- sidered foreign countries, and financial relations with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. However, Mauritania's exchange control measures in principle do not apply to relations with (1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; (2) the other member countries of the West African Monetary Union (Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta); and (3) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, Congo (Brazzaville), Gabon, the Malagasy Republic, and Ma l i). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Min- ister of Finance, who also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or sale of foreign securities in Mauritania, inward and outward 1 In view of changes that took place early in 1969 (see note at the end of this su rvey ), this survey presents the position on February 25, 1969. 2 The CFA f ranc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the com- mon currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Maur i tan ia, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 314 direct investment, and the solicitation of funds in Mauritania for placement in foreign countries. Most of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to the BCEAO and to authorized intermediaries. The BCEAO also is authorized to collect, either directly or through the intermediary of the banks and the Postal Administration, any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through autho- rized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Department in the Ministry of Commerce, which also issues import certificates for liberalized commodities and export certifi- cates. For statistical purposes, the BCEAO stamps its visa on all import and export licenses. The National Import and Export Corporation (SON IMEX) has a monopoly over imports of sugar, tea, rice, and certain textiles. Prescription of Currency Mauritania is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France (including its Overseas Departments and Territories, except that of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through cor- respondent banks in France in any of the cur- rencies of those countries—provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements with Israel, Portugal, and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports and Import Payments Imports of Israeli, Portuguese, and South African origin and/or provenance are prohibited. The import of a few goods is prohibited from any source for reasons of health or public policy. With these exceptions, imports from countries in the French Franc Area and from EEC countries other than France are free of license and quanti- tative restrictions. Most imports from other coun- tries are admitted in accordance with an annual import program, determined each year by a joint French-Mauritanian Committee. Under this pro- gram, global quotas are established for imports from non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area. The quotas fix the limits up to which import licenses are issued for specified commod- ities to licensed traders and to industrial or agri- cultural producers. There are three liberalization lists, applicable respectively to the former OEEC area, to the United States and Canada, and to all countries outside the French Franc Area. For goods admitted without quantitative restriction, certificates of importation are issued. The National Import and Export Corporation (SON IMEX) has a monopoly over the import of sugar, rice, green tea, percales, and Guinea cloth. All imports from foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import license or import certificate entitles the importer to purchase the necessary exchange, but not ear- lier than eight days before shipment if a documen- tary credit is opened or eight days before the pay- ment is due if the commodities have already been imported. Advance payments for imports require prior approval by the BCEAO. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel, Portugal, and South Africa are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account coun- tries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Minister of Finance, who has delegated his approval authority to the BCEAO and authorized intermediaries. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in MAURITANIA the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. For travel, residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allo- cation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 50,000 a year for each person (CFAF 25,000 for chil- dren under 10); any foreign exchange remaining after return to Mauritania must be surrendered. For business travel, an exceptional additional allo- cation may be granted only with special autho- rization by the Minister of Finance. The transfer of the entire salary of a foreigner working in Mauritania is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the trans- fer takes place within three months of the pay period. Travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 10,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and bank- notes issued by other Operations Account coun- tries. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes. Resident travelers must have their purchases and sales of foreign currency marked in a personal foreign exchange booklet (carnet de change}. Nonresi- dent travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins declared by them on entry, but not more than the equivalent of CFAF 25,000, as well as any travelers checks and letters of credit issued in their name in a foreign country. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel, Portugal, and South Africa are prohibited. Export transactions to all foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Export licenses are required only for minerals and frozen fish, both for sales to French Franc Area countries and other coun- tries. Exports to countries outside the French Franc Area require an export certificate. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Operations Account country must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other 315 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as my amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. The import of Guinean currency is prohibited. Capital Transfers of capital between Mauritania and Israel, Portugal, and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between Mauritania and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such coun- tries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, over the issuing, offering for sale, or introduction of foreign secu- rities in Mauritania, and over the solicitation of funds in Mauritania for placement in foreign countries; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Mauritania, the control mea- sures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, the other member countries of the West African Monetary Union, and those other coun- tries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Foreign direct investments in Mauritania 3 and Mauritanian direct investments abroad,4 must be 3 Including those made by companies in Mau r i tan ia that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Mauritania of foreign companies. 4 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly con- trolled by persons in Maur i tan ia and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Mauri- tainia. 316 declared to the Minister of Finance when they are being made, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistrib- uted profits. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration, during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. The full or partial liquidation of either type of direct investment also requires declaration. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Mauritanian investments abroad or foreign investments in Mauritania, must be reported to the Minister of Finance within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, offering for sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Mauritania requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Mauritanian Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing or offering for sale in Mauritania has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in Mauri- tania, or by branches or subsidiaries in Mauritania of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minis- ter of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior dec- laration, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Mauritania and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by regis- tered banks; (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be notified to the Minis- ter of Finance within 20 days, unless the total ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 500,000 or less. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization, and is restricted. The Investment Code (Law 61.122) enacted on June 26, 1961 and amended by Law 67.168 on July 17, 1967 provides for two kinds of prefer- ential treatment for the establishment of specified companies in Mauritania: a priority regime and a long-term fiscal stability regime. Under the first regime, the proposed investment must amount to at least CFAF 75 million, to be made within a period of up to 2 years, and must provide perma- nent employment for at least 20 Mauritanian nationals. The benefits accorded under this regime include exemptions for a specified number of years from duties on the import of certain mate- rials as well as from taxes on specified income. Under the second regime, certain companies con- sidered to be of exceptional importance to the development of the country and making a mini- mum investment of CFAF 1 billion in less than 5 years are accorded special benefits, which con- sist mainly of the stabilization of some or all taxes for a period of up to 25 years. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Mauritania. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from this require- ment are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO, ( 2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold- plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1968 January 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Spain was terminated. Henceforth, all settle- ments with that country took place in convertible currencies. March 1. The import program for the period to March 1, 1969 went into effect. With minor exceptions, imports of commodities originating in EEC countries other than France were liberalized. March 30. Decree No. 68.123 prohibited all financial operations and settlements with Israel, Portugal, and South Africa. MAURITANIA April 12. All imports from and exports to Israel, Portugal, and South Africa were prohibited by Ordinance No. 68.134. The Ordinance was promulgated as Law No. 68.223 of July 10. April 18. Decree No. 68.138 revoked, with effect from April 1, the prohibition on the import and negotiation in Mauritania of Malian banknotes and coins. May 31. Decree No. 68.170/PR, by suspend- ing any contrary provisions of Decree No. 67.129 of June 30, 1967, re-established temporary exchange controls in relations with foreign coun- tries. All payments between Mauritania and for- eign countries had to be made through authorized intermediaries. May 31. Order No. 297/MF provided that the new exchange controls would not apply to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account coun- tries. Nonresident accounts in Mauritania could not be credited with BCEAO banknotes. The order introduced an exchange allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 a person a trip for travel to foreign countries, but not more than CFAF 50,000 in foreign and domestic currency combined could be taken out. The export by trav- elers to foreign countries of BCEAO banknotes was limited to CFAF 50,000 a person a trip. The order also listed the types of payments to foreign countries that could be made freely, subject to submission of documentary evidence, through an authorized bank or the Postal Administration. Furthermore, payments up to CFAF 15,000 could be made freely for any purpose. Repatriation and surrender requirements were introduced for pro- ceeds from exports to foreign countries and pro- ceeds from invisibles; repatriation had to take place within a month of the due date of the pay- ment. June 24. Circular No. 19 made all overdrafts on Foreign Accounts in Francs on all advances to nonresidents subject to prior approval. It also established an allocation for business travel to foreign countries of up to CFAF 150,000 a person a trip; this could be taken up in addition to the allocation for tourist travel. The circular also contained regulations concerning exchange cover for import payments; these were amended on August 15 by Circular No. 26. July 15. Decree No. 68.230 amended Decree No. 67.129 of June 30, 1967 by making the solic- 317 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA iting of funds in Mauritania for placing abroad subject to the prior approval of the Minister of Finance. August 23. Order No. 459/MF amended Article 9 of Order No. 297/MF concerning repa- triation obligations. August. The payments agreement with Mali was formally terminated. October5. Decree No. 68.286/PR/MF revoked Decree No. 68.170/PR and the regulations issued for its implementation. This action abolished the temporary exchange controls. November 25. Decree No. 68.322/PR put into force again the provisions of Decree No. 68.170/ PR, Order No. 297/MF, and Order No. 459/MF. This action re-established exchange control in rela- tions with foreign countries. December 16. Decree No. 68.338/PR/MEF prohibited, except with the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, all payments and transfers by residents to foreign countries, or, within Mauri- tania, in favor of a nonresident; all imports and exports of gold, means of payment, and securities; and all transactions and transfers leading to the constitution of assets abroad by a resident, or to the holding of foreign means of payment in Mauri- tania by a resident. All claims on foreign countries or nonresidents resulting from exports, earnings, or income had to be collected and, where appro- priate, surrendered. All settlements with foreign countries or nonresidents had to take place through the BCEAO, the Postal Administration, or authorized banks; all imports from and exports to foreign countries had to be domiciled with authorized banks. All foreign securities, foreign exchange, and titles embodying claims on nonresi- dents had to be deposited with an authorized bank, whether they belonged to a resident or a nonresident. Decree No. 68.170 was revoked and Decree No. 67.129 was suspended insofar as its provisions were contrary to the new decree. December 16. Decree No. 68.339/PR/MEF submitted to control by the Minister of Finance all claims and liabilities in CFA francs and in any foreign currency that banks in Mauritania had vis-a-vis foreign countries. This control could be delegated to the BCEAO. (See also January 31, 1969, below.) December 24. Order No. 735/MF listed the 318 types of payments that could be made freely, subject to submission of documentary evidence and through an authorized intermediary, to foreign countries and delegated to the BCEAO the approval authority for all other payments. Non- resident accounts in Mauritania could no longer be credited with BCEAO banknotes, French bank- notes, or notes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. All amounts subject to surrender had to be collected and, where appropriate, sold on the exchange market, within two months of the due date. Such payments could not be col- lected in banknotes or to the debit of a postal checking account in Mauritania. The due date for export receipts had, in principle, to be within 180 days after arrival of the commodities at their destination. The order also contained definitions of "foreign countries/' "residents," and "non- residents." The new controls would not apply to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries. December 24. Order No. 736/MF provided that resident and nonresident travelers could not take out more than CFAF 10,000 in BCEAO banknotes, or the equivalent in French banknotes or notes of an institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Nonresident travelers could export any foreign banknotes they had brought in and declared, up to the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. Imports by resident or nonresident travelers of BCEAO bank- notes, French banknotes, and banknotes of other. Operations Account countries would be free, as would be imports of any means of payment de- nominated in a foreign currency. An exchange allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 for the period until the end of 1968 was established for resident travelers. Resident travelers had to surrender within eight days any foreign currency they brought in. December 24. Order No. 737/MF appointed two commercial banks and the Postal Administra- tion as authorized intermediaries, the latter only for payments that had received prior approval. December 24. Order No. 738/MF required prior approval to send means of payment, titles to claims or property, and domestic or foreign securities to a foreign country through the mail or by parcel post. The BCEAO and the autho- rized banks were exempt from this prior approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution December 28. Circular No. 34 established approval procedures for payments to foreign countries. December 31. Circular No. 35 established procedures for the domiciliation of export trans- actions and for payments for imports. December 31. Circular No. 36 established procedures for the domiciliation of export trans- actions and for controls over the repatriation of export proceeds. NOTE. —The following changes took place early in 1969: January 9. Circular No. 1/69 specified the conditions under which authorized banks could without special authorization make remittances to foreign countries for study purposes. The basic monthly allowances for nonboarding students were US$300 for bachelors and US$500 for mar- ried students in the United States and the equiva- lent of CFAF 50,000 or that of CFAF 100,000 for other foreign countries. January 31. The Minister of Finance delegated to the local Director of the BCEAO the super- vision over transactions in foreign exchange by banks in Mauritania. February 8. The BCEAO, by Instruction No. 1 to Banks, requested the banks to provide monthly data on their foreign position. For this purpose; all countries other than Mauritania were to be considered foreign countries. MAURITANIA February 13. Order No. 103/MF introduced an exchange allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 a person a year for travel by resi- dents to foreign countries (CFAF 25,000 for chil- dren under t en ). For business travel allocations of an amount higher than the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 could be granted by exceptional authorization of the Minister of Finance. Resident travelers could in addition take out up to CFAF 10,000 in banknotes issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, and the institutes of issue of other Operations Account countries. Resident travelers were required to obtain a per- sonal foreign exchange booklet (carnet de change) in which all purchases and sales of foreign exchange must be marked. February 21. The BCEAO issued Instruction No. 2 to Banks, which required the authorized banks to submit monthly data concerning their forward purchases and sales of foreign currencies. February 25. A Notice to Authorized Inter- mediaries established that the general authoriza- tion for the transfer of salaries and wages was applicable to foreign workers linked to an employer by a labor contract. The transferable amount was that effectively received by the worker. Transfer had to take place within three months after the relevant pay period. February 25. Circular No. 4/69 stipulated that residents could purchase foreign exchange forward only for imports of specified commodities. 319 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS1 Exchange Rate System No par value for the Mauritian Rupee has been established with the Fund. The official rate is Re 1 = «£0 Is. 6d., corresponding to Re 1 = US$0.18. The currency issuing authority is the Bank of Mauritius. Its rates for sterling are Rs 13.31% buying and Rs 13.36% selling per <£!. Commercial banks are authorized to deal with customers in sterling at spot rates based on the rates of the Bank of Mauritius, and in other foreign currencies2 at rates based on London market rates. The commercial banks' rates for sterling on December 31, 1968 were Rs 13.20 buying and Rs 13.40 selling per £1, and those for the U.S. dollar were Rs 5.50 buying and Rs 5.60 selling. A different effective rate results from the application of a stamp duty of 26.25 per cent to outward capital transfers and to payments for gold coin and gold bullion. Certain capital transfers to non-Sterling Area countries are chan- neled through the investment currency and prop- erty currency markets in the United Kingdom. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Mauritius under powers delegated to it by the Financial Secretary. The authority for approving practically all current payments is in turn dele- gated to the commercial banks. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry is responsible for the issue of import and export licenses, where required. Prescription of Currency Mauritius is a member of the Sterling Area but settlements with Sterling Area countries are sub- ject to exchange control. Payments to residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made in rupees to a Sterling Area Account in Mauritius or in any Sterling Area currency. Payments from residents of the Sterling Area may be received in rupees from a Sterling Area Account in Mauritius or in any currency of the Sterling Area. Payments to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area 1 Maur i t ius became a member of the International Monetary Fund on September 23, 1968. 2 The exchange control regulations of Maur i t ius define foreign currencies as all currencies other than the Maur i- tian rupee. 320 may be made in rupees to a Sterling Area Account or an External Account in Mauritius, in sterling to an External Account in the United Kingdom, or in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Payments from residents of countries outside the Sterling Area may be received in rupees from an External Account in Mauritius, in sterling from an External Account in the United Kingdom, or in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Spe- cial regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts There are two main types of nonresident accounts: Sterling Area Accounts and External Accounts. Sterling Area Accounts, which may be opened by persons and firms resident in other countries of the Sterling Area, may be credited with (1) authorized payments by residents of Mauri- tius; ( 2) any transfers from other Sterling Area Accounts; (3) any payments from External Accounts held in Mauritius or elsewhere in the Sterling Area; and (4) the proceeds of the sale to an authorized dealer of any foreign currency (other than Rhodesian pounds) or gold by non- residents of Mauritius. They may be debited for (1) payments from residents of the Sterling Area to residents of Mauritius; (2) trans- fers to other Sterling Area Accounts; (3) trans-, fers to External Accounts in Mauritius or else- where in the Sterling Area in respect of which the permission of the exchange control authorities in the appropriate Sterling Area country has been given; and (4) the cost of purchase of any Ster- ling Area currency. External Accounts may be opened by persons and firms resident outside both Mauritius and the Sterling Area. They may be credited with (1) authorized payments by residents of Mauri- tius; ( 2) payments from Sterling Area Accounts in respect of which the permission of the exchange control authorities of the appropriate Sterling Area country has been given; (3) any transfers from other External Accounts; and (4) the pro- ceeds of the sale to an authorized dealer of any non-Sterling Area currency (other than Rhodesian pounds) or gold by nonresidents of Mauritius and the Sterling Area. They may be debited for (1) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution any payments to residents of Mauritius; (2) any transfers to Sterling Area Accounts; (3) any transfers to other External Accounts; and (4) the cost of purchase of any foreign currency (other than Rhodesian pounds) or gold. In addition to the above, there are also Blocked Accounts to which are credited funds owned by persons and firms resident outside Mauritius realized from investments made by them prior to April 5, 1966, as well as funds representing emi- grants' assets in excess of Rs 67,000. Such accounts may be credited with payments by resi- dents of Mauritius that have been specifically authorized for credit to a Blocked Account and may be debited for certain specified transactions. These transactions include the acquisition of Mauritian securities that are not optionally or contractually redeemable within five years from the date of purchase. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. There is a list of commodities for which a specific license from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry is required regardless of origin. All other goods may be freely imported under open general licenses granted to individual traders when imported from countries of the Sterling Area, but most of these goods require a specific license when imported from non-Sterling Area countries. General licenses are granted liberally. Specific licenses are issued on the basis of domestic requirements. The issue of a general or specific license automatically carries with it exchange con- trol authority to make the corresponding import payments, subject to compliance with the pre- scription of currency regulations. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and also, up to certain limits, for certain other purposes such as travel, is provided by the commercial banks without prior reference to the exchange control authorities. The basic travel allowance for tourist purposes is the equivalent of <£250 a person a year for travel to countries of the Sterling Area and the equivalent of <£ 50 a person a year for travel to other countries. The allowance for business travel purposes is the equivalent of <£250 a trip or <£20 a day up to a MAURITIUS maximum of <£ 1,000 a trip for travel to countries of the Sterling Area, or up to a total of <£750 a trip for travel to countries outside the Sterling Area. There are also established limits for pay- ments and transfers to Sterling Area countries and to non-Sterling Area countries in respect of family support, salary remittances by non- Mauritian nationals, trade commissions, subscrip- tions to clubs and societies, publishing rights, advertising outside Mauritius, royalties, profes- sional and technical services, education, and leave salaries. Applications for amounts exceeding the standard allocations may be submitted to the exchange control authorities. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out Rs 350 in domestic currency. Resident travel- ers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount of their travel allowance. Nonresident travelers may take out any foreign currency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Also pro- hibited are exports of (1) articles made wholly or partially of gold, platinum, or silver; (2) dia- monds, precious and semiprecious stones, pearls, and articles mounted with these; and (3) works of art. All exports valued at more than Rs 1,000 and all exports of food valued at over Rs 50 require a license from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The Mauritius Sugar Syndicate is the sole exporter of sugar, and a 5 per cent export tax is levied on sugar exports. All export proceeds in any currency other than Mauritian rupees must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any currency other than Mauritian rupees must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes and coins that may be imported but not more than Rs 700 in domestic currency notes and coins may be imported by travelers. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted. Outward transfers of capital are subject to certain restrictions. Residents of Mauritius may transfer freely capital to any country in the Sterling Area 321 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS on payment of a 26.25 per cent stamp duty (a duty of 25 per cent plus a surcharge of 5 per cent thereon); they may, subject to permission, trans- fer capital to non-Sterling Area countries on pay- ment of the stamp duty, provided normally that the transfer is made through the investment cur- rency or property market in the United Kingdom. Nonresidents require permission to transfer capi- tal to any country; transfers are subject to the payment of stamp du ty and, if directed toward a country outside the Sterling Area by a resident of the Sterling Area, must normally be made through the investment currency or property currency market. Transfers of capital after payment of stamp du ty by residents of non-Sterling Area countries need not be channeled through these markets. Foreign-owned companies may freely transfer abroad dividends, profits, and inter- est on capital. Permission for the repatriation of capital is rarely granted for capital brought in before April 5, 1966, irrespective of the country of origin, but is, in normal circumstances, given for capital brought in on or after that date. Pro- ceeds from the sale, liquidation, etc., of foreign capital that may not be repatriated must be credited to Blocked Accounts. Emigrants may take out, at the official rate of exchange and free of stamp duty, the equivalent of Rs 67,000 from their Mauritian assets when emigrating to any country except Rhodesia; this facility is available upon redesignation as a non- resident, which occurs upon departure. The bal- ance of an emigrant's funds are restricted for a period of five years, during which time such funds may be used in Mauritius for specified purposes. A f ter five years the remaining assets in Mauritian rupees are made available to the emigrant in accordance with the rules applicable at the time of release to assets of nonresidents. Persons emi- grating from Mauritius are not entitled to draw their personal travel allowance in addition to the emigration facilities. Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities are permitted to hold gold only in the form of numismatic coins or personal jewelry and orna- ments. The import and export of monetary gold are prohibited, except when made by the monetary authorities. Imports of gold for industrial pur- poses are subject to a quota and specific import license. Exports of articles made wholly or par- tially of gold, other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler, are prohibited. Pay- ments in respect of private imports of gold coins and gold bullion are subject to stamp duty at the rate of 26.25 per cent. Changes during 1968 March 6. Emigrants could no longer, in addi- tion to the initial emigration allowance of the equivalent of Rs 67,000, transfer annually the equivalent of Rs 48,000 from their Mauritian assets. April 24. The 15 per cent stamp duty on out- ward capital transfers (defined so as to include payments for gold coin and bullion) was increased to 25 per cent. Since the 5 per cent surcharge introduced on November 21, 1967 remained in force, the effective rate of stamp duty was raised from 15.75 per cent to 26.25 per cent. 322 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO1 Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0710937 gram of fine gold per Mexican Peso or Mex$ 12.50 = US$ 1. The offi- cial rates are Mex$ 12.49 buying, and Mex$12.51 selling, per US$1. Exchange transactions by com- mercial banks with the public take place at market rates fluctuating within these limits. On Novem- ber 12, 1946, Mexico notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment. Prescription of Currency No obligations prescribing the method or cur- rency for payments to or from nonresidents are imposed on importers, exporters, or others. In accordance with payments agreements with Hun- gary, Poland, Spain, and Yugoslavia, payments for transactions with those countries are recorded by the Bank of Mexico through special accounts. Payments between Mexico and Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Paraguay, Peru, and Venezuela may be settled through accounts maintained with each other by the Bank of Mexico and the central banks concerned, within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. Payments to Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in Mexican pesos through the Camara de Compensation Centroamericana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central America. Imports and Import Payments Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely. A few imports are prohibited. All imports must be accompanied by an exporter's declaration of shipment. For a considerable number of items, import licenses from the Ministry of Industry and Trade are required before firm orders are placed; the issuance of such licenses is subject to quan- titative restriction. For specified commodities, "open end" import licenses (permisos abiertos) may be granted that permit unlimited importation during a specified period of time, such as six 1 In view of a change that took place on J a n u a ry 1, 1969 (see note at the end of this su rvey ), this survey presents the position on that date. months or a year; subject to screening of the importer's performance, repeated renewal of the license is possible. Some items require an import license only when imported from countries other than the members of LAFTA. Applications, except those for "open end" licenses, are screened by the Ministry of Industry and Trade with the aid of a committee composed of importers and pri- vate entrepreneurs. Import licenses for leather goods, alcoholic beverages, cigarettes, and motor- cars and their spare parts are subject to an over- all annual limit. All imports by the public sector and imports of certain goods by the private sector (assembled and unassembled automobiles and trucks, iron and steel pipe, firearms, watches, syn- thetic fibers, some types of jewelry, radios and television sets, and whisky, wines, and other liquors) are licensed only if the importer guaran- tees the export of specified commodities (mainly cotton) of an equivalent value. Imports and exports under this compensation system are effected by the National Foreign Trade Bank, which levies on the importer a fee of usually between 1 per cent and 1.5 per cent of the value of the import transaction, and turns the fee minus a commission over to an export promotion fund. Exports effected under this system account for approximately 30 per cent of the value of total exports. Imports by official Mexican agencies are subject to prior approval by the Committee of Public Sector Imports; this approval is not given if a reasonably competitive domestic equivalent is available, a price differential of 15-20 per cent generally being considered acceptable. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. The contracting of insurance for persons in Mexico, or on property of Mexican ownership, or where the risks are for the account of persons in Mexico or may occur in Mexico, is permitted with Mexican companies or with branches of foreign companies established in Mexico in accordance with Mexican law. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports require licenses. No exchange control requirements apply to the proceeds of 323 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO exports. Subsidies are granted on exports of cotton and of certain manufactured products. Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requirements apply to pro- ceeds from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. New foreign investment, other than by private individuals, in Mexican banking or insurance companies and investment funds is pro- hibited. New industrial investments in Mexico over which foreign investors would have majority control are not permitted if similar domestic industries already exist. Credit granted by Mexi- can banks to subsidiaries in Mexico of foreign companies is subject to guidelines drawn up by the Mexican Bankers' Association. The guidelines apply to companies with assets of over Mex$3 million that are more than 15 per cent foreign owned. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Mexico or abroad. There is a 15 per cent tax on "first hand" sales of newly mined gold to any buyer other than the Bank of Mexico. The Bank, however, does not buy or sell gold in transactions with private individuals or firms. Producers of gold undertaking not to sell it at prices exceeding international quotations are eligible for a subsidy corresponding to the 15 per cent tax when selling newly mined gold to private buyers. Imports and exports of gold in any form, except jewelry constituting the personal effects of travelers, require licenses issued by the Bank of Mexico; exports of bars and coins by residents other than the monetary authorities are prohib- ited, and imports are generally limited to those by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Certain banks are authorized to import gold bars for industrial consumption. Changes during 1968 March 18. Export taxes on various commod- ities, including coffee and certain chemicals, were raised. March 18. The Bank of Mexico ceased to deal in gold with private persons and private entities, including producers. The Bank ceased its sales of gold coins to the public and transferred its hold- ings to the monetary reserves. The private banks resumed trading with the public in gold coins at free market prices. March 28. The Mexican Bankers' Association adopted certain guidelines with respect to credit extended by Mexican banks to subsidiaries in Mexico of foreign companies. Such credit was to be reduced by 5 per cent annually in 1968 and 1969. June. Certain banks were authorized to import and sell in Mexico gold bars for industrial con- sumption. November. Producers of gold were granted a subsidy, retroactive to April 1, 1968, to offset the 15 per cent tax payable on newly mined gold sold to private buyers. In order to qualify for the subsidy, producers must sell the gold at prices not exceeding international quotations and the gold could not be exported. NOTE. —The following change took place early in 1969: January 1. All imports had to be accompanied by a specific shipping document (exporter's decla- ration) executed by the exporter. 324 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.175610 gram of fine gold per Moroccan Dirham or DH 5.06049 = US$1. The rate of the dirham in relation to the French franc is fixed at DH 1.025 per F 1; all transactions in French francs except those in French banknotes take place at that rate, plus or minus a commis- sion. The Bank of Morocco's buying and selling rates for the "convertible currencies" it negotiates 1 and for the Spanish peseta are based on quota- tions in the leading foreign exchange markets abroad. The rates of the Bank of Morocco for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1968 were DH 5.0666 buying, and DH 5.0819 selling, per US$1. Transactions in clearing dollars under bilateral payments agreements are carried out on the basis of the official par values declared to the International Monetary Fund. All sales and pur- chases of foreign currency are centralized in the Bank of Morocco, but the authorized banks are permitted to marry (o f fse t) their purchases and sales on behalf of their private customers in each currency separately. The authorized banks must purchase from or sell to the Bank of Morocco each day the balances of their purchases and sales in each currency; compensation between banks is not permitted, so that no foreign exchange market exists in Morocco. The Bank of Morocco makes its own purchases and sales of foreign currency mostly in the Paris exchange market but sometimes in other markets. The Bank of Morocco establishes buying and selling rates for transactions with travelers in banknotes and travelers checks expressed in French francs, CFA francs, Spanish pesetas, and the "convertible currencies"; the authorized banks sell the Bank of Morocco their excess holdings of banknotes and replenish them at the Bank whenever necessary. Forward exchange transactions are not permitted. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Moroc- can Exchange Office, an agency under the Minis- try of Finance. This office has delegated the 1 These are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Djibouti francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. execution of certain exchange control measures to authorized banks. Import certificates and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Com- merce; they must be countersigned by the Moroc- can Exchange Office. Import commitments for liberalized goods are signed by the importer him- self; they do not require the visa of the Exchange Office unless the country of origin of the goods is not the country of shipment. A part of the port of Tangier is designated as a free trade zone and is exempt from taxation and from trade, customs, and exchange control. Prescription of Currency Morocco is part of the French Franc Area but the Bank of Morocco does not maintain an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury and Morocco applies exchange controls to transactions with countries of the Area.2 For prescription of currency purposes, countries are classified as fol- lows: ( 1) the French Franc Area countries; (2) the payments agreement group, comprising countries with which Morocco maintains bilateral payments agreements;3 and ( 3) all other coun- tries, the so-called area of convertibility. Settlements with other parts of the French Franc Area are made in French francs or, with the exception of settlements for imports, in dirhams through French Franc Area Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Settlements with the payments agreement group are made by debiting or crediting the payments agreements accounts established for this purpose. Imports originating in countries in the area of converti- bility may be paid for only in "convertible cur- rencies" negotiated by the Bank of Morocco (see footnote 1). Other settlements with countries in the area of convertibility may be made only in "convertible currencies" negotiated by the Bank of Morocco or through Foreign Accounts in Con- vertible Dirhams. 2 Since February 1967, France has applied to Morocco its controls on foreign investments in France and on French investments abroad. The exchange controls imposed by France on November 25, 1968 in its financial relations with foreign countries are applied also to Morocco. 3 Bulgaria, ma in land China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Gu inea, Hungary, Mali, Poland, Spain, and U.S.S.R. 325 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO Settlements between Morocco and the United Arab Republic are made through accounts main- tained with each other by the Bank of Morocco and the Central Bank of Egypt; the accounts are denominated in U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts The various types of nonresident accounts are as follows: 1. French Franc Area Accounts are held in Moroccan currency by residents of other countries of the French Franc Area. These accounts may be used for settlements with residents of other countries in the French Franc Area, except for the payment for imports from those countries. They may be freely credited with and debited for sales or purchases of French francs (except banknotes) sold to or bought from the Bank of Morocco. Transfers between French Franc Area Accounts may be made freely. 2. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams are reserved for residents of countries in the so-called area of convertibility. These accounts may be credited freely with authorized payments due to residents of countries in the area of con- vertibility (but not in respect of imports or related invisibles) and with dirhams obtained from the sale to the Bank of Morocco of "convertible cur- rencies" negotiated by it, excluding banknotes. They may be debited freely for payments in Morocco and for purchases from the Bank of Morocco of the "convertible currencies" nego- tiated by it, including banknotes. Transfers between Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dir- hams may be made freely. 3. Payments Agreement Accounts are held by the Bank of Morocco for central banks (or similar institutions) of the countries with which Morocco maintains bilateral payments agreements (see footnote 3), except Spain; they are used only for settlements with these countries, including settle- ments for imports and exports. All transactions on these accounts require approval. 4. Spanish Foreign Accounts in Dirhams are held by the Bank of Morocco for the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute and by authorized banks in Morocco for authorized banks in Spain. They are used only for settlements in accordance with the payments agreement with Spain. 326 5. Capital Accounts, which may be held by any nonresident, are credited with funds that may not be transferred abroad. Transfers between Capital Accounts related to countries in the same cur- rency group ( the area of convertibility, the French Franc Area) or related to the same country in the payments agreement group are permitted freely. Subject to certain limitations, they may be debited for purchases of Moroccan securities on the Casablanca stock exchange; for subscriptions to the capital of Moroccan companies whose shares are quoted on the Casablanca stock exchange; for subscriptions to long-term or short- term obligations with a fixed yield issued by a Moroccan entity (short-term obligations are those that ma ture or become payable in five years or less); for custody charges and commissions on securities held for nonresidents; for personal expenses of the account holder and his immediate fam i ly during their stay in Morocco, up to DH 100 a day for each account; and for payment of the costs of maintenance, repairs, taxes, and insurance on real estate located in Morocco. Cap- ital Accounts may be debited freely for purchases of specified 4 per cent ten-year government bonds; interest and redemption proceeds are transferable, and the bonds are freely negotiable between non- residents. All other operations through Capital Accounts require individual approval. 6. Suspense Accounts are used for holding non- resident funds not available for credit to any of the accounts mentioned above. Balances on these accounts may be used freely to pay taxes due to the Moroccan authorities, but all other debits to these accounts require approval. Imports and Import Payments Imports are admitted in accordance with an annual General Import Program. Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports are divided into three categories applicable to all countries. Goods in List A are liberalized. Goods in List B are restricted, in many cases by a global quota, or are subject to state trading. In principle, the impor- tation of goods in List C is not permitted. To import goods in List A, the importer signs an import commitment (engagement d'importation), which does not require administrative approval unless the goods are imported from a country other than that of origin or are purchased on a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution c.i.f. basis,4 but for goods in List B, an import license (import certificate, certificat d'importation) must be obtained. For certain goods in List B, protective quotas are established; for imports of such goods from any source a "quota certificate" (certificat de contingentement) is required. For all imports the import title —import certifi- cate or import commitment —must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank, which may make payments upon submission of the required documents. Import certificates require the visa of the Exchange Office before the foreign exchange is made available. Import commitments require this visa only when the country of origin and the country of shipment of the goods concerned d iffer. An advance deposit of 25 per cent of the f.o.b. value must be made by importers at the time the import title (import commitment or import certifi- cate) is domiciled with an authorized bank; the bank must pay one half of the deposit to the Bank of Morocco to be held for account of the Treas- ury. For most imports from other parts of the French Franc Area, except Senegal, the advance deposit must be paid at least one month before importation takes place. Import certificates must be domiciled within a period of 15 days from the date that the Exchange Office approves the license. Import commitments must be domiciled at the time of their subscription. The following are exempt from the advance deposit requirement: government imports; imports financed with U.S. aid; imports from countries in the payments agree- ment group; imports from Senegal; specified essential imports; and imports by specified organi- zations. The deposit is refunded when the import has taken place and payment has been made in full, or, in certain circumstances, if the import certificate or the import commitment is allowed to expire. Most imports from countries in the payments agreement group are made in accordance with the quotas established in the respective trade agree- ments. Imports can also be licensed under com- pensation transactions. MOROCCO Payments for Invisibles Payments for most current invisibles are autho- rized by the Exchange Office upon presentation of the necessary justification; in several instances the approval authority has been delegated to the banks. The authorized banks are permitted to make payments and settle expenses incidental to the commercial transaction covered by the rele- vant import or export documents. Earnings after tax on approved nonresident investments in Morocco are transferable to the investor's coun- try of residence. The transfer of dividends on nonresident-owned shares of Moroccan companies having their main office in Morocco has been delegated to the authorized banks by the Exchange Office, provided that the shares are quoted on the Casablanca stock exchange and that the Exchange Office has approved the amount of the dividend to be distributed; the transfer of other dividends requires specific approval by the Exchange Office. Undistributed transferable profits remain trans- ferable. Some payments are subject to limitations: A foreign employee may transfer to his country of origin, subject to the approval of the Exchange Office, 50 per cent of his monthly wages or salary if his family does not reside in Morocco, or 30 per cent if he is single or his family lives in Morocco; the same percentages of their monthly earnings may be transferred by foreign nationals engaged in professions, subject (except for the medical and related professions) to a limit of DH 12,000 a year.5 An allocation of foreign exchange equivalent to DH 25 a trip, which may be taken up twice a year, is granted to residents of any nationality for travel abroad. Residents of foreign nationality may acquire exchange for tour- ist travel up to the equivalent of DH 5,000 for each passport a year by selling to an authorized bank a corresponding amount in foreign exchange, other than banknotes from their own foreign assets not subject to surrender requirements. For- eign employees of the Moroccan Government and of public agencies or institutions, teachers of for- eign nationality employed by the Ministry of National Education, and experts holding contracts within the framework of the technical cooperation agreements with France may obtain a comple- 4 C.i.f. imports of List A goods require prior exchange control approval. 5 For all wages, salaries, and professional earnings, the mon th ly transfers cannot exceed by more than DH 150 the amount transferred for June 1968. 327 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO mentary tourist allocation of Ptas 3,500 for travel through Spain when on leave. Applications for exchange for business travel must normally be directed to the Exchange Office, which considers each case on its merits; exporters may be granted up to DH 200 a day for up to 60 days a year, up to a limit of 1 per cent of the foreign exchange surrendered during the preceding year. The allo- cation issued for business travel may be added to the allocation issued for tourist travel. For study in countries of the French Franc Area and in Spain, a monthly allocation of foreign exchange up to DH 500 is granted, provided that no com- parable educational facilities are available in Morocco; the corresponding allocation for the United States is DH 750 a month, and that for other countries DH 600 a month. For fam i ly maintenance, there is a monthly allocation of DH 250. Travelers are not permitted to take out Moroccan banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Most exports may be made freely, although export licenses are required for a few items. All fru i ts, fresh vegetables, canned goods, raw cotton, and cotton by-products may be exported only by a state trading agency, the Office of Marketing and Export (Office de Commercialisation et cTExpor- tation —OCE). That Office also is in charge of wine exports. All exporters must sign an undertaking to repa- triate and surrender the foreign exchange proceeds of their exports. The surrender of the proceeds to the exporter's bank must take place within one month from the date the payment is due. The date on which the payment is due is the maturity date fixed in the commercial contract; this date must not be set, in principle, more than 90 days after the date of arrival of the merchandise at the place of destination. When the bank receiving the funds that represent the proceeds from exports receives the advice of credit in foreign currency from abroad, it must surrender the foreign exchange immediately to the Bank of Morocco. Proceeds from Invisibles accruing from all their noncommercial claims and surrender them to an authorized bank. Other resi- dents must surrender noncommercial receipts only if the receipts result from current transactions, and only when they accrue in foreign currencies other than those of the French Franc Area. The importation of Moroccan banknotes is prohibited. Nonresident travelers may bring in freely foreign banknotes, which may be declared upon entry. Resident travelers also may bring in any amount in foreign banknotes, but these must be surren- dered within 15 days of re-entry. Capital Residents of Moroccan nationality, as well as companies established in Morocco, are obliged to declare to the Exchange Office all foreign-held assets exceeding DH 250, and to repatriate and surrender certain of these assets. The disposal of other foreign-held assets requires permission. The transfer of capital abroad by residents must be approved. Exchange is allocated to repatriates up to DH 35,000 a family, and on account of dowries and inheritances up to the same amount. Foreign investments in Morocco must be approved by the Exchange Office. Foreign invest- ments approved by the Investment Committee are granted various tax and customs tariff benefits and investment bonuses similar to those granted to domestic investments, in accordance with mea^ sures put into effect on February 10, 1961; they are also granted a guarantee of repatriation of the proceeds from liquidation of the investment, when the investment has been financed either with con- vertible currencies or in conformity with the rules governing settlements with other countries. The Exchange Office may also grant a guarantee of retransfer of investments which are not examined by the Government Commission. The guarantee of repatriation is freely transferable between all nonresidents (if the investment has been financed with convertible currencies) and between nonresi- dents of the same country or currency area (if the investment has been financed with other curren- cies). Proceeds from the liquidation of other investments are credited to Capital Accounts. Residents of Moroccan nationality and Moroc- can companies must repatriate exchange receipts Certain government bonds acquired with funds from Capital Accounts are freely negotiable 328 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution between nonresidents (see Nonresident Accounts, above). All other transactions in securities involv- ing nonresident interests, as well as the import and export of securities, require approval. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Morocco for numismatic or investment purposes. Ten different types of foreign gold coins are traded on the Casablanca stock exchange, which does not, however, deal in gold bars or ingots. Imports and exports of gold are prohibited unless authorized by the Warranty Office in the Directorate of Customs and Indirect Taxes, which derives its approval authority from the Minister of Finance. Every year the Minister of Finance fixes a quota for the importation of gold ingots, which is then allocated among jewelers and other users. Gold in the form of coins, ingots, or bars is free from import du ty and import taxes. MOROCCO Changes during 1968 January 23. Imports on a c.i.f. basis of com- modities on List A required prior exchange con- trol approval. The same requirement was imposed on List A goods imported from a country other than that of origin. May 25. The General Import Program for 1968 was published. There were only minor changes in the previous year's commodity Lists A, B, and C. August 1. The max imum allocations for the transfer abroad of wages, salaries, and profes- sional earnings by foreign nationals were increased b yDH 150 a month. November 5. Certain reserves of companies with foreign participation became transferable, provided that they had been created from oper- ating profits earned in 1968 or subsequently that were transferable themselves. Previously, any profits that were not transferred abroad became nontransferable. 329 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0877700 gram of fine gold per Nepalese Rupee or NRs 10.1250 = US$1. Most of Nepal's foreign exchange transactions are in terms of Indian rupees. The par value gives a relationship of NRs 135 = Rs 100. Residents may freely purchase Indian rupees from Nepalese banks and they may hold any amount of Indian notes and coins, but the Indian rupee is not legal tender. Administration of Control A foreign Exchange Committee, consisting of representatives from the Nepal Rastra Bank (the central b a n k) and the Ministeries of Finance, Foreign Affa irs, and Industry and Commerce, pre- pares an annual foreign exchange budget for foreign currencies other than the Indian rupee. Permission is required from the Ministry of Finance for all foreign payments, except payments for certain specified invisibles that require autho- rization from the Nepal Rastra Bank. Import licensing is the responsibility of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. All exchange transactions with countries other than India must be settled through authorized dealers, i.e., the Nepal Bank Ltd. and the Rastriya Van i jya Bank. Within Nepal there are 15 additional authorized dealers licensed to purchase foreign currencies; any sale of such currencies other than Indian rupees is subject to the prior approval of the Nepal Rastra Bank. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements apply to outgoing payments to countries with which no paymen ts agreement is in force, and these may be made in the foreign currency supplied by the Nepal Rastra Bank. The proceeds of exports to India are obtained in Indian or Nepalese rupees; the proceeds of exports to other countries must be received in any of the convertible currencies quoted by the Nepal Rastra Bank. Nepal has bilat- eral paymen ts agreements with ma in land China, Pakistan, Poland, and the U.S.S.R.; paymen ts between Nepal and these countries must be made through special accounts. 330 Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents who are representatives of foreign governments or United Nations organizations are allowed to open "convertible rupee accounts" with Nepalese banks, the balances of which may be freely transferred abroad. Other nonresidents may open accounts only in Nepalese rupees. Foreign currencies brought into or received in Nepal by nonresidents, which are converted into Nepalese rupees and deposited with a Nepalese bank, may be reconverted for transfer out of the country, subject to prior permission of the Nepal Rastra Bank. Imports and Import Payments All imports of goods except those originating in India (other than alcoholic beverages, tobacco, and tobacco products) or Tibet require import licenses from the Ministry of Industry and Com- merce. Imports of vegetables, vegetable oil, mar- garine, animal fa t, beef, arms and ammunition, explosives, chemicals to be used for explosives, and wireless transmitters are prohibited. Under the Trade and Transit Treaty of September 11, 1960, Nepal and India agreed to freedom of trade between themselves in Nepalese and Indian goods; Indian goods may be imported freely, and imports of all commodities subject to excise duty in India benefit from reimbursement of tax by the Govern- ment of India to the Government of Nepal. With the exception noted below, applications to the Ministry of Finance for foreign exchange to pay for imports from countries other than India are considered on their merits; an application mus t, however, be in accordance with the annual foreign exchange budget. Exporters entitled to import goods with exporters' exchange entitle- ments are, within the limits of their entitlement, granted a license automatically for goods speci- fied by the Minister of Industry and Commerce (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low). Certain imports from all sources are subject to import surcharges. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts to India may be made freely in Indian rupees, but for purchases of Rs 500 or over the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution purpose of the payment must be indicated. Pay- ments for freight and insurance are given the same treatment as the related import payments. For travel to countries other than India for medical treatment, foreign exchange is allowed up to the equivalent of US$1,000 at a time; students studying at their own expense in these countries are allowed up to US$1,500 a year for board and lodging, while payments for tuition fees are allowed as required. Payments for other invisibles depend on the essentiality of the transaction and the availability of foreign exchange. Nepalese and Indian currency may be taken out freely to India by Nepalese and Indian nationals only; the export of these currencies to countries other than India is prohibited. Foreign banknotes other than Indian banknotes may not be taken out by residents with- out permission. Nonresidents may take out the unchanged amount of any foreign banknotes they brought in; however, nonresidents other than Indian nationals may not take out Nepalese or Indian banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of old coins, gold and silver and coins and jewelry made of these metals, cows, buffaloes, and rhinoceros horns are prohibited. The re-export to India of non-Nepalese goods is not normally permitted, and re-exports to any destination of kerosene, gasoline, cement, iron bars, and pack- aged foodstuffs are prohibited. All other goods may be exported freely. The exchange proceeds of exports, except Indian rupees, must be surrendered to the Nepal Rastra Bank or an authorized bank at the official buying rate of exchange, within six months of shipment. The exporter receives from the Ministry of Finance a non t rans fe rab le exporters' exchange entitlement corresponding to a specified propor- tion of his export proceeds in foreign currencies other than Indian rupees; the entitlement may be used to obtain exchange at the official rate for the import of goods specified by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. Entitlements granted to industries exporting their own products may be used only for raw materials, spare parts, and machinery, all for their own production, and for salaries payable in foreign exchange. Exporters engaged in bilateral trade, i.e., those NEPAL selling to countries with which Nepal maintains payments agreements, are granted entitlements corresponding to 40 per cent of their export earn- ings for imports of their choice; the remaining 60 per cent must be used to import specified com- modities. Other exporters receive entitlements corresponding to 20 per cent of the proceeds from exports of raw jute, 40 per cent of those from exports of ju te manu fac tu res and musk, and 60 per cent of those from exports of other goods. Industries exporting ju te and ju te goods receive entitlements corresponding to up to 45 per cent of their export proceeds to import raw materials for their industries; however, the corresponding percentages are 55 per cent for hessians and 65 per cent for gunny bags. Industries designated as incurr ing heavy foreign exchange expenditures receive entitlements for the following percentages of export proceeds surrendered during the fiscal year: 60 per cent of export earnings of NRs 2 million or less; 70 per cent of export earnings over NRs 2 million but not in excess of NRs 4 mil- lion; 80 per cent of earnings over NRs 4 million but not in excess of NRs 6 million; and 85 per cent of earnings over NRs 6 million. The corre- sponding percentage entitlements for these indus- tries when exporting ju te manufac tures and raw ju te are 55 per cent, 65 per cent, 75 per cent, and 80 per cent. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of Indian rupees, foreign exchange proceeds derived from transactions in invisibles must be surrendered to the Nepal Rastra Bank or an authorized bank at the official rate of exchange. Nepalese and Indian currency may be brought in from India only, and by Nepalese and Indian nationals only; the import of these curren- cies f rom countries other than India is prohibited. Nonresidents other than Indian nationals are not allowed to bring in Nepalese or Indian banknotes. Other foreign banknotes may be brought in freely, subject to declaration. Capital No conditions are laid down concerning receipts and remittances in respect of capital transactions, but official exchange is not normally provided for 331 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution capital remittances by Nepalese nationals. Nepa- lese citizens, whether resident in Nepal or not, are prohibited from making any type of investment in foreign countries except investment specifically exempted by government notice published in the Official Gazette; the exemptions include the pur- chase and sale of insurance policies abroad, invest- ments abroad by any banking or financial institu- tion incorporated in Nepal, and the purchase of shares of foreign companies under a rights issue. Foreign investors in Nepal who obtain an invest- ment guarantee may remit yearly profits of up to 25 per cent of the total profit on the foreign capi- tal invested and, in any one year, up to 10 per cent of the principal; if the exchange situation permits, profits in excess of 25 per cent are remittable. Industrial enterprises capitalized at US$65,000 or more may be wholly owned by nonresidents. Nepal has a bilateral Investment Guarantee Agreement with the United States. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Nepal. Imports of gold from any country other than India require a license and are subject to an import duty of NRs 5.85 per troy ounce. Exports of gold may only be made by the monetary authorities and require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. Changes during 1968 November. New trade arrangements were agreed with India. Nepal undertook to limit pro- duction of stainless steel utensils and synthetic textiles to the level of 1967/68 exports to India. December 6. The percentages of foreign exchange entitlement allowed to exporters of spec- ified ju te goods were increased; that for hessians was raised from 45 per cent to 55 per cent and that for gunny bags from 45 per cent to 65 per cent. 332 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS1 Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.245489 gram of fine gold per Netherlands Guilder or f. 3.62 = US$1. The official limits are f. 3.59% buying, and f. 3.64% selling, per US$1, at which rates the exchange authorities stand ready to deal; the rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Market rates for other cur- rencies vary between limits that result from com- bining the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by the Netherlands and such limits in force in the country of the other currency con- cerned. Authorized banks are freely permitted to buy and sell convertible currencies 2 and inconvertible currencies, both spot and forward, against con- vertible currencies, including guilders on Convert- ible Guilder Accounts, and inconvertible curren- cies; they are free to deal with residents and nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks. For- ward exchange contracts are not limited as to delivery period. Residents are permitted to con- clude spot transactions with other residents, including authorized banks, and they may con- clude forward transactions for any period with authorized banks; residents other than banks are free to hold foreign currency accounts at home and on application are permitted to hold such accounts in their own names with banks abroad. The Kingdom of the Netherlands accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory All transactions with the Netherlands Antilles and Surinam are subject to exchange control. However, vis-a-vis third countries with which payments agreements are in force, the Nether- lands, the Netherlands Antilles, and Surinam con- stitute the Netherlands Monetary Area. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Nether- lands Bank on behalf of the Ministers of Foreign A f fa i rs, Finance, Economic Affairs, and Agricul- ture. Import and export licensing are handled by the Central Import-Export Agency (CDIU) and the delegated offices, under directives from the Directorate-General for Foreign Economic Rela- tions. Invisibles and capital transactions are licensed by the Netherlands Bank, as are transit trade transactions.3 All commercial banks of any importance are authorized to handle foreign exchange transactions within the scope of general and special licenses granted by the licensing authorities. Prescription of Currency Payments to nonresidents, if eligible for transfer abroad, must be made through an authorized bank, either in guilders to the credit of a nonres- ident guilder account held with an authorized bank in the Netherlands or to the debit of the authorized bank's currency holdings abroad. All foreign countries except the U.S.S.R. are included in the "convertible guilder area." Pay- ments to countries in the convertible guilder area may be made in any foreign currency or in guilders to the credit of any nonresident account. Receipts from countries in the convertible guilder area must be obtained in the convertible currencies (see foot- note 2 ), or in guilders to the debit of a Convertible Guilder Account (see section on Nonresident Acounts, be low); however, receipts may also be collected in other currencies, provided that the amounts received are deposited with the Nether- lands Bank or an authorized bank. Most transac- tions with the U.S.S.R. are settled in guilders by crediting or debiting the Bilateral Guilder Account of the Foreign Trade Bank of the U.S.S.R. with the Netherlands Bank; receipts may also be obtained in the convertible currencies, or in 1 In view of certain changes that took place early in 1969 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position on February 1, 1969. 2 These are listed in the Netherlands regulations as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 3 Merchanting transactions involving Rhodesia are pro- hibited. Most other transactions are freely permitted by virtue of general licenses granted to registered transit traders. The only merchanting transactions still subject to a specific license are (a) purchases and sales of strategic goods and, within the EEC, of scrap; and (b) all sales to the U.S.S.R. when payable in bilateral Nether- lands guilders. 333 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS guilders to the debit of a Convertible Guilder Account. Payments between residents may be made freely in any foreign currency, provided that the amount involved is debited to a foreign currency account in the Netherlands or abroad and is credited to a foreign currency account in the name of the beneficiary with an authorized bank in the Netherlands. Nonresident Accounts The main categories of nonresident guilder accounts are as follows: 4 1. Convertible Guilder Accounts. These accounts may be held by any nonresident. They may be credited with transfers from other Con- vertible Guilder Accounts, with permitted pay- ments by residents of the Netherlands to residents of countries of the convertible guilder area, with proceeds from the sale of gold or convertible cur- rencies, and with Netherlands notes and coins remitted or deposited by nonresidents. They may be debited for payments to residents for exports and services rendered to any country and for other permitted transactions, including purchases of for- eign currencies. Balances on these accounts may be transferred to any other nonresident account. 2. Bilateral Guilder Accounts. The only account of this type is that of the Foreign Trade Bank of the U.S.S.R. with the Netherlands Bank. It is used for the settlement of transactions between the Netherlands and the U.S.S.R. It may be credited with transfers from any Convertible Guilder Account, and with proceeds from the sale in the Netherlands of gold or convertible currencies. It may be debited for permitted payments to res- idents. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Import licenses are required for many textiles unless they are imported from the Belgian-Luxembourg Eco- onomic Union and do not originate in Hong Kong, Japan, or a state trading country. In addition to 4 Certain balances and securities deposits belonging to nonresidents residing in Indonesia are designated W-accounts and W-deposits, respectively; their disposal must be licensed by the Netherlands Bank. 334 these, import licenses are required only for imports from Hong Kong, Japan, and state trading coun- tries, and for the import of goods of unknown origin and of a limited number of products mainly from the agricultural sector. Except for imports from Rhodesia, practically all imports that require an import license are free from quantitative restric- tion. Most imports from Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, and Ruman ia are formally liberalized, although still subject to license. Twenty-two com- modities are subject to quantitative restriction when originating in Japan. Imports from non-EEC countries of most prod- ucts covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC (including cereals, rice, pork, eggs, and poultry mea t) are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EEC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EEC countries of beef, veal, dairy products, olive oil, most other oils and fats, sugar, and specified f ru i ts and vegetables. Payments for imports may be made freely, pro- vided that the method of payment conforms with the general prescription of currency regulations. Residents may freely grant credit in respect of imports of commodities.5 Payments for Invisibles Payments abroad for invisibles are permitted freely. Exchange for travel is provided in any cur- rency and up to any amount, and the entire amount may be taken, if the traveler wishes, in Netherlands banknotes. A resident traveling abroad may in addition have any fu r ther amounts remitted to him through banking channels. Exchange purchased for travel purposes must not be spent for other purposes; it may be used for purchases for personal use, however. Payments for interest, dividends, and contractual amortization due to nonresidents are permitted freely by credit- ing the appropriate nonresident account. The export of Netherlands banknotes by res- ident travelers is not subject to limitation. Nonres- idents may export all unutilized negotiable instru- ments and foreign and Netherlands banknotes and coins which they have imported or have obtained in the Netherlands by drawing on their accounts 5 Commodities are so defined as to exclude gold. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution or exchanging other currencies. The export of Netherlands silver coins by travelers is limited to f. 25 a person a trip. Exports and Export Proceeds Virtually all exports to Rhodesia are prohibited; all other exports to Rhodesia require an export license. For exports to other countries, export licenses are required only for a few commodities, mostly of a strategic character, and for some agri- cultural products. Residents may freely grant credit in respect of exports of commodities (see footnote 5 ). The sur- render of export proceeds is not obligatory, but any surrender that is made must be at the official rate. The collection of export proceeds through an authorized bank is obligatory. A license may be obtained to hold a foreign currency account with a bank abroad, to which account export proceeds may be credited. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be col- lected through an authorized bank but need not be surrendered and may instead be credited to foreign currency accounts. A license may be obtained to hold a foreign currency account with a bank abroad, to which account proceeds from invisibles may be credited. For incoming exchange exceeding f. 500 derived from current invisibles, the recipient must indicate to an authorized bank the nature of the underlying transaction, as well as the amount and currency received. Nonresidents may bring into the Netherlands unlimited amounts in Netherlands banknotes, for- eign banknotes, and negotiable instruments. These may be sold only to an authorized bank, to an authorized exchange office, or, in the case of for- eign banknotes, to an authorized depository, or they may be used to pay tourist expenses in the Netherlands. Residents are obliged to bring back to the Netherlands any unutilized portion of the banknotes and coins that they took with them on their outward journey; there is no limitation on the amount in Netherlands or foreign banknotes and coins that they may bring in. Capital Inward and outward capital transfers and the sh if t ing of foreign-owned capital within the NETHERLANDS Netherlands from one asset to another are subject to control, but general licenses are granted for most types of capital transaction. Borrowing and lending abroad by residents (with the exception of certain banking operations and of credit in respect of imports or exports of commodities other than gold) are restricted for reasons of capital market policy and, as far as borrowing is concerned, to control the contracting of foreign debt by local authorities, or for reasons of monetary policy. Borrowing from nonresident banks by private industry and other nonbank residents is not nor- mally permitted, and loans from other sources (except suppliers' credits) are subject to indi- vidual approval. There is a general license for loans up to f. 100,000 taken up by residents from nonresidents, provided that a resident in any calendar year does not borrow more than f. 100,000 from the same nonresident. A similar license has been issued for lending to nonresidents. Nonbank residents are not normally permitted to purchase foreign treasury bills or other foreign short-term debt instruments. Most capital transac- tions, whether freely permitted or not, must be notified to the Balance of Payments Department of the Netherlands Bank. Capital issues in the Netherlands on behalf of nonresidents are restricted. Bond issues denom- inated in guilders are individually licensed by the Netherlands Bank within global limits that are established annually in accordance with the pros- pects for the domestic capital market and the balance of payments. Authorized banks are not permitted to main- tain net short-term external liabilities. They may freely lend to nonresident banks, for any period, but their borrowing from such banks is restricted. Their net foreign liabilities must not exceed f. 5 million for each bank; the calculation is based on the foreign position in all currencies, including guilders, and on the sum of short-term and long- term assets and liabilities. New capital investments in the Netherlands by nonresidents are in general permitted; inward direct investment is freely permitted. The transfer abroad of the proceeds from the sale or liquida- tion of investments in industrial enterprises estab- lished in the Netherlands is permitted. Local borrowing by nonresident-controlled companies is not normally permitted to exceed the sum of 335 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS imported share capital, plowed-back profits, and foreign long-term loans. Direct investment abroad by residents is authorized on application, provided that no capital flight seems to be involved. Transactions between residents and nonres- idents in domestic and foreign securities take place at official market rates and, with minor exceptions, are unrestricted; the regulations concerning secu- rities are not applicable to treasury bills. The foreign currency proceeds from securities sold abroad by residents must be deposited with an authorized bank or securities broker in the Nether- lands and may be sold or retained. The proceeds of securities sold in the Netherlands by nonres- idents are transferable in any currency, irrespective of the seller's country of domicile or residence. Nonresidents may have their securities, Nether- lands or foreign, exported to them (but see foot- note 4 ). Domestic and foreign securities held abroad by a resident are subject to a deposit requirement, but the Netherlands Bank grants exemptions on application. Residents may freely purchase real estate abroad. Gifts and donations to nonresidents are free.6 Emigrants may export any amount in foreign and domestic currency for each person. Emigrants acquire the status of nonresidents upon leaving the Netherlands, provided that they have declared their intention to settle abroad for more than three years; they may upon departure have remitted to them their total assets in the Netherlands. Payments to nonresident beneficiaries may be made freely in respect of inheritances from estates being distributed in the Netherlands. Gold The Netherlands Bank engages in gold transac- tions only with monetary authorities and interna- tional financial institutions. Authorized banks and other residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold (fine gold, gold coin, and gold alloys) in the Netherlands or abroad; gold held abroad, however, must be kept on deposit with the foreign corre- spondent of an authorized depository. Imports and exports of gold require neither exchange licenses nor import and export licenses. There is a 6 Charitable gifts and donations for religious purposes are included in the Netherlands definition of current payments. 336 free gold market in Amsterdam. Commercial imports and exports of gold jewelry and of articles containing minor quantities of gold, such as watches, require import licenses issued by dele- gated offices of the CDIU; such licenses are issued freely. Changes during 1968 February 15. A Benelux trade agreement with India was signed concerning imports of specified Indian cotton textiles. For the Netherlands, it only applied to imports into the metropolitan territory. Specified items would remain free from quantita- tive import restrictions. The agreement went into effect on June 18, retroactive to January 1, 1968, and would be valid until the end of 1970. March 20. The Netherlands Bank abolished all restrictions on the holding, negotiation, import, and export of gold; settlements between residents and nonresidents were required to be in accor- dance with the prescription of currency regula- tions. As a result, the free gold market in the Netherlands, which had been closed since May 1940, was reopened, and residents obtained free access to such markets abroad. Previously, only gold in the form of coin or jewelry could be held and negotiated freely between residents; holdings abroad and dealings with nonresidents were not normally permitted. Gold held or to be held abroad by residents was required to be deposited with foreign correspon- dents of authorized depositories and in the name of the depository concerned. Gold continued to be defined as comprising gold coins, fine gold, and gold alloys (unworked or semiprocessed). The Netherlands Bank ceased to sell gold to industrial users. April L The basic general license for payments between residents and nonresident insurance com- panies and investments by the latter was expanded to cover the payments and investments to the debit of Insurance Accounts that previously were per- mitted by virtue of separate general licenses. Spe- cific approval remained necessary only for the crediting of Insurance Accounts with amounts transferred from abroad. April 4. A general license was granted to res- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution idents to make payments to other residents, for any purpose and in any foreign currency, from their foreign currency accounts held in the Nether- lands or abroad, provided that the payment was credited to a foreign currency account in the name of the beneficiary with an authorized bank. May 3. A Benelux trade agreement with Pak- istan was signed concerning imports of specified Pakistani cotton textiles. In the Netherlands, it applied to imports into the metropolitan territory only. Specified items would remain free from quantitative import restrictions. It went into effect on August 9, 1968, retroactive to October 1, 1967, and would be valid un t il the end of 1970. July 1. The provisions relating to foreign settle- ments in respect of securities over K Accounts and Reinvestment Accounts, which had lapsed on October 14, 1966, were formally revoked. July 1. Residents were no longer required to deposit with an authorized bank or stockbroker their foreign securities held in the Netherlands. The deposit requirement was continued for foreign and domestic securities held abroad, but the Netherlands Bank would upon application grant an exemption. Those receiving an exemption would upon application be granted a license for the import or export of the securities concerned. July 1. The administrative controls over imports and exports of securities owned by non- residents were simplified. The system of red export certificates for domestic securities was terminated insofar as securities issued or renewed after World War II were concerned. July 1. Holders of a special license permitting the acquisition from nonresidents, or the sale to nonresidents, of securities were required to notify the Balance of Payments Department of the Netherlands Bank periodically of the use made of the license. July 16. The export of domestic silver coins by resident or nonresident travelers was limited to f. 25 a person a trip. The general permissions to make payments to nonresidents in Netherlands guilders and to provide domestic currency by debiting nonresident guilder accounts ceased to apply to payments in silver coin in excess of f. 25. August 1. A general permission was issued to authorized banks to grant loans for up to NETHERLANDS 12 months to nonbank nonresidents for purposes not connected with import, export, or transit trans- actions. Immediate registration of such loans was required with the Balance of Payments Depart- ment of the Netherlands Bank. August 1. The definition for exchange control purposes of current payments was amended to include payments in respect of transactions on commodity terminal markets. The term "com- modity" continued to be defined so as to exclude gold; it continued to cover silver and platinum and platinum alloys. The effect of the amendment was that payments in respect of those transit or trian- gular transactions involving the purchase of com- modities other than gold on a terminal market abroad no longer required specific or general exchange licenses from the Netherlands Bank. August 26. The July 1 regulations concerning the purchase of foreign securities by residents from nonresidents were amended to restrict again such purchases of bonds issued after August 1, 1956 and payable or optionally payable in guilders (or of the multiple currency type and linked to the guilder) to bonds issued in the Netherlands or issued jointly in the Netherlands and other countries. September 21. The purchase of foreign means of payment and the export of Netherlands and foreign means of payment for travel purposes by residents was permitted without limitation, and any additional amount could subsequently be remitted to the traveler. Previously, the basic travel allowance was the equivalent of f. 3,000 a person for trips of up to two weeks, with fur ther allowances for extended trips, up to f. 11,250 a person for another 75 days, but the Netherlands Bank granted additional amounts upon application when it was satisfied that no unauthorized capital outflow was involved. September 26. The prior approval of the Netherlands Bank ceased to be required for the granting of credit to nonresidents in connection with imports or exports of commodities (other than gold). Previously, the taking up of such credit from nonresidents already required neither approval nor notification, but prior approval had to be obtained to grant suppliers' credit or buyers' credit to nonresidents for a period in excess of five years, or for a period of between one and five years if the latter period was not customary. 337 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS September 26. Credits in excess of one year granted to or obtained from nonresidents in con- nection with imports or exports had to be notified to the Balance of Payments Department of the Netherlands Bank. October 23. A general license permitted any resident or nonresident to dispose of precious metals, coins that are not legal tender, and stamps. "To dispose of" was defined as including domestic negotiation and domestic processing and refining. "Precious metals" continued to be defined as sil- ver, platinum, and platinum alloys (unworked or semifabricated). The import and export of the commodities covered by this license and of gold already were freely permitted, as was disposing of gold. The same general license permitted residents to buy from and sell to nonresidents temporarily staying in the Netherlands coins that are not legal tender and stamps; the delivery of any coins or stamps so purchased by a resident and the pay- ment had to take place in the Netherlands. December 5. Additional sanction measures against Rhodesia were enforced. These had the effect of prohibiting also all transit transactions involving Rhodesia. The measures were applicable in the European territory of the Netherlands only. December 31. The bilateral payments agree- ment with Indonesia was terminated. Previously, virtually all settlements were already made in convertible exchange outside the bilateral "A Account." NOTE. —The following changes took place early in 1969: January 1. A value-added tax was introduced. The general rate was 12 per cent; the other rates were 4 per cent and a "zero-tariff" rate. There were also certain exemptions. A 15 per cent con- sumption tax was levied, in addition to the value- added tax, on passenger cars, whether imported or produced domestically. January 1. Indonesia was included in the con- vertible guilder area. January 24. A general license replacing certain individual licenses allowed residents normally engaged in contracting abroad to maintain foreign currency accounts abroad in their own names and to have their earnings and expenditures settled over them; payments for purchases abroad of cap- ital goods, however, remained subject to specific approval. Any excess balances had to be repa- triated. 338 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.471230 gram of fine gold per Netherlands Antilles Guilder or Ant. f. 1.88585 = US$1. Exchange transactions between com- mercial banks and the public take place at Ant. f. 1.87 buying, and Ant. f. 1.89 selling, per US$1, plus a tax of Ant. f. 0.015 per US$1 on sales of exchange, making the effective selling rate for the U.S. dollar Ant. f. 1.905 per US$1. The selling rates for other currencies (mainly Nether- lands guilders and pounds sterling) are set from time to time on the basis of the rates for the U.S. dollar in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. Administration of Control Exchange licenses, where required, are issued by the Foreign Exchange Control Board. The commercial banks have authority to provide for- eign exchange for practically all current trans- actions. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made in any currency except Netherlands Antilles guilders. Receipts may be accepted in any convertible currency except Netherlands Antilles guilders. For statistical pur- poses, all payments made by the authorized banks in foreign exchange must be reported to the exchange control. Imports and Import Payments Licenses are required only for imports of cer- tain luxury goods. These licenses must be obtained from the Foreign Exchange Control Board and are, as a rule, valid for three months, although in some cases they may be extended for a fur ther three months. Payments for permitted imports may be made freely. Payments for Invisibles Payments related to foreign trade, current pay- ments on account of services and short-term banking and credit facilities, and remittances for family maintenance, medical care, education, etc., may be made freely through the authorized banks. For payments representing interest on loans or net income from other investments, and for amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments, licenses are granted on application, subject to verification of the facts. Nonresidents may take with them on departure foreign currency which they brought in on arrival. The export of Netherlands Antilles banknotes is limited to Ant. f. 100 a person, or Ant. f. 200 a person for those leaving by a ship of the Royal Dutch Steamship Company. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses, which are usually granted. Exchange proceeds must be surrendered to an authorized bank, with the exception of export proceeds received by industrial companies with nonresident status. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring with them checks or let- ters of credit in Netherlands Antilles currency, and checks, letters of credit, or notes in foreign currency, in unlimited amounts. Each traveler may also bring in Ant. f. 100 in Netherlands Antilles banknotes, or Ant. f. 200 when arriving by a ship of the Royal Dutch Steamship Com- pany. Capital Foreign investment in the Netherlands Antilles requires a license, which is, in general, granted if the investment is in the economic and social interests of the islands. New industrial companies relying primarily on exports may be granted non- resident status, which confers on the company concerned fu ll exemption from exchange control except in its transactions with residents of the Netherlands Antilles. Such exemption may also be granted to investment companies. Outward transfers may be made freely, but certain capital transactions by or on behalf of residents are restricted. Life insurance contracts between residents and foreign insurance com- panies for a minimum term of ten years are licensed freely up to an amount which is fixed annually, depending on the foreign exchange position (in 1968, such contracts were permitted 339 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES up to US$25,000 a person). Investment by resi- dents in real estate situated abroad or in foreign securities (i.e., securities issued outside the Neth- erlands Antilles or payable or optionally payable in a currency of a country other than the Neth- erlands Antilles) requires a license. Investments by individual residents in officially quoted foreign securities (other than shares in mutual funds) are licensed freely up to amounts fixed annually, depending on the foreign exchange position (in 1968, these investments were permitted up to US$3,000 a person). In considering applications by other residents for such investments, the For- eign Exchange Control Board takes into account the merits of each case and, in particular, the limited opportunity for domestic investment. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in the Netherlands Antilles for numismatic and investment purposes; authorized banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and with other residents. Residents other than the mone- tary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed without special permission to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jew- elry or coins, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Foreign Exchange Control Board; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports of coins by authorized banks, and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1968 January. Establishment in the free trade zones of Aruba and Curagao ceased to be limited to firms incorporated under Netherlands Antilles company law. 340 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.99531 gram of fine gold per New Zealand Dollar or $NZ 1 = US$1.12. Offi- cial rates are fixed for transactions in sterling (telegraphic t rans fe rs ): $NZ 213.67 buying, and $NZ 214.92 selling, per <£ stg. 100. Except for the Australian dollar, the rates for spot trans- actions in other currencies quoted by the New Zealand trading (commercial) banks are based on the closing buying and selling rates of the previous day in London. The rate for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1968 was US$1.1182 buying, and US$1.1060 selling, per $NZ 1. The trading banks are also permitted to con- clude with their customers forward exchange transactions for up to six months to cover genuine trade transactions. These forward transactions are at freely determined rates, except that rates for forward sterling are the relative spot rates adjusted by Vio of 1 per cent a month for the period of the contract. Cover for longer periods may be arranged in special cases if approved by the Reserve Bank of New Zealand. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of New Zealand under powers dele- gated to its Governor by the Minister of Finance. The Reserve Bank in turn has given discretionary authority to the trading banks in New Zealand to approve applications for certain remittances of funds overseas. Import and export licensing is the responsibility of the Customs Department. Prescription of Currency New Zealand is a member of the Sterling Area 1 and has prescription of currency requirements generally similar to those in force in other parts of the Sterling Area. Payments to and from other parts of the Sterling Area may generally be made in any Sterling Area currency except New Zealand dollars; however, the proceeds of exports to the Sterling Area may be received in sterling, in any 1 The Sterling Area, as defined in New Zealand's exchange control regulations, does not include New Zealand itself. other currency (except New Zealand currency) that is freely exchangeable for sterling, or in New Zealand currency from an account with a bank in New Zealand of a bank domiciled in any country other than New Zealand or Rhodesia. Authorized payments to countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia may be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account in the United King- dom or in any non-Sterling Area currency, and the proceeds of exports to countries outside the Ster- ling Area except Rhodesia may be received in sterling from an External Account in the United Kingdom, in a currency of any country outside the Sterling Area which is freely exchangeable for sterling in an External Account, or in New Zealand currency from an account with a bank in New Zealand of a bank domiciled in any country outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia. The accounts in New Zealand dollars of overseas banks may be used for the settlement of transac- tions with countries in the currency area of the overseas bank concerned. Nonresident Accounts The Reserve Bank supervises certain specified accounts in New Zealand of residents of other countries ("controlled accounts"). The accounts in New Zealand dollars of overseas banks may be used for the settlement of transactions with other countries in the same currency areas. Banks in other parts of the Sterling Area generally do not maintain accounts in New Zealand, and their remittances to and from New Zealand are made through the London offices of banks in New Zealand. Imports and Import Payments Imports are controlled through an Annual Import Licensing Schedule, which groups imports into different categories to which various import procedures are applied. About half of all imports are exempt from licensing. The import categories included in the Schedule for July 1, 1968- June 30, 1969, are as follows: Category "E" (exempt) includes petroleum, lubricating oils, cer- tain other raw materials, green coffee, cocoa beans, jute, many textiles, certain equipment, and printed books which may be imported without 341 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND license. In addition, certain imports of Australian origin are exempt from licensing, irrespective of the licensing category to which they belong.2 A "Basic" category comprises items for which licenses are granted by reference to licenses issued or actual imports in a previous licensing period; it includes all items of Category "A," which was applied during a previous licensing period but has been suspended. Category "C" licenses are granted on an individual basis on such criteria as essen- tiality, availability, and price; for some "C" items, however, an initial allocation based on a previous period is provided, while applications for further licenses are considered individually. Category "D" includes items of a type also produced in New Zealand, for which licenses are issued only in exceptional circumstances. In addition, licenses for small or "token" amounts are issued, to the extent of 115 per cent of 1967/68 licenses for the same goods, for "D" items, and for certain approved classes of goods, imports of which are generally not permitted under the Schedule. All licenses issued may be used for imports from any source at the applicant's discretion. Under a special arrangement in force since 1951, private individuals owning certain overseas funds or securities held prior to June 16, 1966 (which date has been brought forward on sev- eral occasions) are permitted to import under "no-remittance import licenses" goods for their own personal use for which licenses are normally given, and also goods of minor value in "D" cate- gories. Motorcars are the principal import under this arrangement; applicants for "no-remittance import licenses" for motorcars are required to produce evidence that an amount in qualifying funds equal to 30 per cent of the qualifying funds needed for the license has been repatriated to New Zealand through the banking system; the amount of the import license cannot exceed 77 per cent of the funds certified by the Reserve Bank as eli- gible. Under an extension of this arrangement, 77 per cent of such overseas funds or securities held overseas prior to June 16, 1966 by private indi- viduals and business concerns may, on application, be used to finance commercial imports of motor- cars, commercial vehicles, and other items on the 2 Under the terms of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement that came into force on January 1, 1966. 342 Import Licensing Schedule, subject to the condi- tion that qualifying funds equivalent to 30 per cent of the amount of the license applied for be repatriated through the banking system. A degree of flexibility in the application of the Licensing Schedule is achieved through the use of Group Schemes ( for Industry and Interchange- ability Groups) that enable importers to transfer individual entitlements to a composite license, instead of holding licenses for separate items, and to import, up to the total amount, any item or combination of items in the group. Payments for Invisibles The commercial banks are permitted to sell exchange for overseas payments up to established limits for many categories of invisibles, subject in appropriate cases to the submission of justify- ing documents. Payments beyond the established limits, and for categories not included in the commercial banks' permitted list, require the spe- cific approval of the Reserve Bank; applications must be supported, where appropriate, by justify- ing documents. For nonbusiness travel to any part of the world, there are travel allowances of up to $NZ 400 for each adult in any period of 12 months (the allowance being calculated on the basis of $NZ 14 a day for the first 14 days spent on land and $NZ 12 a day thereafter) and of up to $NZ 280 for each child under 12 years of age (calculated on the basis of $NZ 9.80 a day for the first 14 days spent on land and $NZ 8.40 a day thereaf ter). An additional amount of up to $NZ 1,000 ($NZ 700 for children) in foreign exchange is granted to persons who have not trav- eled abroad in the preceding three years. Larger amounts of exchange for business and other simi- lar travel are authorized at the discretion of the Reserve Bank. In addition to the allocations above, banks in New Zealand and their branches or agents in London and Australia may sell non- Sterling Area currencies to New Zealand travelers against these persons' privately held Sterling Area funds; the total amount that may be so provided is the equivalent of $NZ 2,000 a person ($NZ 1,400 a child) in any 12-month period. The remittance abroad of dividends, interest, and profits due to nonresidents is normally approved, subject to formal authentication. This also applies to most contractual obligations ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution incurred in the ordinary course of business, but each remittance requires approval and new com- mitments such as royalty agreements with over- seas licensors require the prior consent of the Reserve Bank. Allocations for remittances on account of main- tenance and/or gifts are made on a yearly basis without discrimination. Remittances by recognized New Zealand religious and charitable organiza- tions or individuals operating as members of such an organization are not subject to any limitation. Allocations to individuals for religious and char- itable remittances, other than of the type specified above, are approved by the Reserve Bank up to $NZ lOO a r em i t t o r. Travelers may take with them up to $NZ 10 in New Zealand currency, regardless of destination. Banknotes taken out may not be in denominations larger than $NZ 1. Up to $NZ 4 of the permitted total may be in coins. Exports and Export Proceeds With minor exceptions, all exports require export licenses. These are issued by the Customs Department and ensure that the net export pro- ceeds will be surrendered to a trading bank in accordance with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). General export licenses valid until December 31, 1972 are issued to regular exporters. Payments for exports must be received within six months from the date of shipment, with the exception that payment for goods consigned to Rhodesia must be received prior to the date of exportation. Under an export bonus scheme, manufacturers submitting evidence of exportation may receive an additional import license to the same value as the imported raw material or components incorpo- rated in the exported goods, subject to certain conditions being met; goods imported against the bonus license may be used for the manufac ture of goods for the home market or for export. Proceeds from Invisibles When remuneration for services provided or to be provided in New Zealand for overseas residents by New Zealand residents (including corporate bodies ordinarily resident in New Zealand) is paid NEW ZEALAND in the form of foreign assets,3 such assets or their foreign currency proceeds must be sold to the New Zealand banking system; interest and dividends earned overseas are excluded from this surrender requirement. If the remuneration is in a form other than foreign currency or a balance with an overseas bank, it must be converted into foreign currency before the surrender takes place. The disposal overseas by New Zealand residents of foreign income from other invisibles such as interest and dividends is free of control except for non-Sterling Area currencies which, unless sold to a New Zealand bank, may not be disposed of without the approval of the Reserve Bank, but such income is not eligible for sale in exchange for New Zealand currency, except that the foreign currency proceeds may be sold to a New Zealand bank. Travelers may bring into the country unlimited amounts of foreign banknotes and coins and up to $NZ 10 in local currency, of which $NZ 4 may be in coins. In all other cases, the importation of New Zealand currency is prohibited except with the consent of the Reserve Bank. Capital With the exception of certain capital issues out- side New Zealand and certain overseas borrowings by corporate bodies, there is no restriction on capital receipts. However, to be eligible for repa- triation, capital must have been initially trans- ferred to New Zealand through normal banking channels or in some other way approved by the authorities, e.g., as imports of plant or machinery. Capital so transferred, including capital gains and capitalized profits, may be repatriated, after the formal approval of the Reserve Bank has been obtained. Overseas companies seeking to com- mence business in New Zealand require the approval of the Minister of Finance. Capital issues outside New Zealand by com- panies incorporated in New Zealand require the 3 The kinds of remuneration that are involved are ( 1) the payment or provision of any money; (2) the crediting of any sum in any account at any bank or with any person; (3) the acquisition or provision of any securities, or any real or personal property, or of any right thereto or interest therein (whether actual or con- t ing en t ); and (4) any benefit, whether by way of doing work or the performance of services, or otherwise, under any contract, agreement, scheme, or transaction of any kind (whether or not it is enforceable or intended to be enforceable by legal proceedings). 343 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND approval of the Minister of Finance; overseas bor- rowing by such companies also requires prior approval. New Zealand subsidiaries and branches of overseas companies must obtain the consent of the Minister of Finance if they wish to borrow in New Zealand; the principal exception to this requirement is for bank credit to cover normal day-to-day needs. Nonresident persons or com- panies desiring to make a direct investment in a New Zealand company through the purchase or exchange of shares are required to register any offer made for such shares whenever the invest- ment would result in the control by the offerer of 25 per cent or more of the New Zealand com- pany's capital. Within two weeks of registration the Minister of Finance must notify the offeror as to whether or not the offer is to be considered further. If further consideration is to be given, the Minister must give a final decision within six weeks of the date of registration. Emigrants to any destination other than Rho- desia may upon designation as nonresidents trans- fer the equivalent of $NZ 12,000 for each family to their new country of residence. Any remaining assets in New Zealand are transferable in equal annual installments over the next four calendar years; in practice, no installment is reduced below $NZ 10,000. For repatriates, the maximum initial transfer on departure is the equivalent of $NZ 12,000 or the amount originally brought in through the banking system, whichever is larger. Initial remittances up to $NZ 2,000 on account of legacies from the estate of a New Zealand resi- dent are approxed; any balance is transferable in equal annual installments over the next four cal- endar years. In practice, no installment is reduced below $NZ 2,000. All transactions in non-Sterling Area securities, whether with nonresidents or between residents, require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. A New Zealand resident owning overseas Sterling Area securities is free to sell them to residents of the overseas Sterling Area (New Zealand being excluded in this context) for overseas Sterling Area currency, which may be reinvested in other overseas Sterling Area securities, surrendered, or, if the security sold is not eligible for sale for New Zealand currency, retained at the disposal of the New Zealand resident. With limited exceptions, sales of overseas Sterling Area securities by one New Zealand resident to another may be made 344 only in exchange for other overseas Sterling Area securities or for overseas Sterling Area currencies. Overseas Sterling Area securities that may be traded between New Zealand residents in exchange for New Zealand currency are those of overseas Sterling Area countries which were registered in the names of New Zealand residents on June 16, 1966 and for which scrip or other documents evi- dencing title were issued; the purchaser must lodge the share scrip with an authorized depository. These securities may also be sold for overseas Sterling Area currency, in which case the proceeds must immediately be remitted to New Zealand through the banking system or reinvested in over- seas Sterling Area securities within one month and the resulting scrip deposited. The authorities do not normally make exchange available to private persons or firms for the purchase of overseas Ster- ling Area securities or other foreign securities. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in New Zealand for numismatic purposes. Since the revocation in 1954 of the Gold Acquisition Notice 1948 it is no longer necessary to offer gold to the Reserve Bank, and sales within New Zealand do not require Reserve Bank approval. However, imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Cus- toms Department; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Commercial imports of gold jewelry are licensed restrictively. Changes during 1968 January 26. All borrowing by foreign com- panies in New Zealand (other than taking up of bank credit to cover normal day-to-day needs) and all borrowing abroad by New Zealand com- panies required the consent of the Minister of Finance. Previously, both were exempt from approval up to $NZ 20,000 in any 12-month period. February 20. It was announced that the tax incentive for the development of export markets would not, as previously announced, be discon- tinued after March 31. Qualifying expenditures by exporters and promoters of tourism would con- tinue to be deductible for income tax purposes at a rate of 150 per cent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution March 6. The amount of non-Sterling Area funds that banks in New Zealand and their branches or agents in London and Australia could sell to New Zealand travelers against the ir pri- vately held Sterling Area funds was increased from $NZ 1,200 to $NZ 2,000 a person ($NZ 1,400 a ch i ld) in any 12-month period. March 29. The Import Licensing Schedule for the year ending June 1969 was announced. Items exempt from licensing were increased by the addi- tion of goods involving 122 item codes, bringing the value of liberalized imports up from about 40 per cent to about 50 per cent of total private imports. Another 21 items would become exempt from licensing from Ju ly 1, 1968, provided that no requests for variation in rates of import du ty were received for them by the Emergency Pro- tection Au tho r i ty by April 30, 1968, or that any such requests received had been dealt w i th by June 30. Quota allocations for licensed imports would generally be 115 per cent of licenses issued in 1967/68. The aggregation scheme was discon- tinued, but substitute arrangements were made to ensure a measure of flexibility in the application of the Licensing Schedules. Customs officers at ports would have considerable delegated authority to process applications that would former ly have required reference to the Department of Industries and Commerce. March 31. The tax concession in respect of increased exports of qua l ify ing goods was reduced from 20 per cent to 15 per cent. July 1. Applicants for "no-remittance import licenses" for motorcars and other goods intended for private or commercial use were required to produce evidence that an amount equal to 30 per cent of the qua l i fy ing funds needed for the license had been repatriated to New Zealand through the banking system. Previously, the required percent- age was 15 for private imports and 25 for com- mercial imports. July 6. Most m in imum export prices for meat, on which deficiency payments to producers are based, were increased for the year ending Sep- tember 30, 1969. NEW ZEALAND September 12. The Meat Producers' Board ceased shipments of beef and mu t ton due for arrival in the Un i ted States before Janua ry 1, 1969. October 4. Exporters of lamb were required to ship at least 15 per cent of the ir exports during the 1968/69 season to marke ts outside the United Kingdom; previously, the requ irement was 12 per cent. For the first time, an incentive prem ium of $NZ 0.005 a pound would be paid to companies reaching the 15 per cent diversification target. Companies falling short of the target would remain subject to a levy of $NZ 0.025 a pound, but this would now be on a graduated scale. October 9. The New Zealand Minister of For- ests announced a vo lun tary ceiling on timber exports to Japan. November 25. The Reserve Bank Amendment Bill was introduced. It would empower the Minis- try of Finance to fix the par value of New Zealand's currency in terms of gold instead of ster- ling. It would also make the conversion of cur- rency other than at the official rate of exchange an indictable offense. The bill was enacted on December 18,1968. November 30. The Land Settlement Promotion and Land Acquisition Amendment Bill was intro- duced. The bill imposes restrictions on the acqui- sition of certain classes of land by persons who are not New Zealand citizens, by corporations incorporated outside New Zealand, by New Zealand subsidiaries of foreign companies, and by New Zealand companies in which 25 per cent or more of the voting power is controlled by for- eigners. These provisions came into force on Janu- ary 1, 1969. December 5. Exporters could in certain cir- cumstances obtain approval from the Reserve Bank for loans or extended credit terms to importers in the United Kingdom, in order to aid the latter in mak ing import deposits. Any approved advances by exporters would have to be remitted back to New Zealand upon release of the import deposit. August 7. Certain additional items would become exempt from import control, provided that no objections were lodged with the Emer- gency Protection Au thor i ty within three months. December 30. The Meat Producers' Board announced that exports of beef and veal to the United States would be subject in 1969 to a volun- tary ceiling. 345 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.126953 gram of fine gold per Nicaraguan Cordoba or C$7.00 = US$1. The Central Bank deals with the commercial banks at C$7.00 per US$1, buying and selling, and sells exchange to the Government at C$7.0525 per US$1. All exchange transactions between com- mercial banks and the public take place at the official rates of C$7.00 buying, and C$7.0525 selling, per US$1. The sale of foreign exchange by commercial banks to the public is subject to a stamp tax of Y2 of 1 per cent, which results in an effective selling rate of C$7.0875 per US$1. No tax or commission is charged on the buying rate. Nicaragua accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as from July 20, 1964. Administration of Control The control system is administered by the Cen- tral Bank of Nicaragua, which by law has the sole authority to buy and sell foreign exchange. This authority has been delegated to the commercial banks, and the Central Bank deals with the public only to the extent that it accepts deposits in foreign currency, and for purposes of monetary control. Certain agencies are also authorized to buy and sell foreign exchange, but they may sell exchange only for payments for invisibles. The Central Bank is responsible for classifying imports and determin- ing any advance deposits required; no advance deposit requirements are in force at present. Prescription of Currency There is no prescription of currency, but the customs authorities have the power to prohibit an export if the currency stipulated for payment is not readily convertible into U.S. dollars in interna- tional markets. Payments to Costa Rica, El Salva- dor, Guatemala, and Honduras in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in Nicaraguan cordo- bas through the Camara de Compensation Centro- americana, a clearinghouse established by the cen- tral banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. Pay- ments to Mexico may also be settled in Nicaraguan cordobas through the clearinghouse. The Central Bank does not accept banknotes of Costa Rica, El 346 Salvador, and Guatemala for compensation through the clearinghouse in excess of the follow- ing amounts a month: 265,000 Costa Rican colones, 125,000 Guatemalan quetzales, and 200,000 Salvadoran colones. Imports and Import Payments All importers are required to be registered. There are two categories of registered importers: those who are permitted to import any kind of merchandise and those who may import only for their own industrial needs. Imports from all coun- tries, including the other Central American coun- tries, must be consigned to persons or firms hold- ing a commercial license from the Ministry of Economy. Import licenses are not required, but import transactions must be registered with the Central Bank by means of import declarations; when payment is no* being made on sight of docu- ments, an application for registration of the order must be submitted to the Central Bank. Imports of certain types of footwear are prohibited, except footwear manufactured in countries signatory to the General Treaty for Central American Eco- nomic Integration. Payments for imports must be made with exchange purchased from banks.1 Payments are usually made by sight drafts. Letters of credit are mostly confined to imports from Japan. Central Bank approval is not required to open an import letter of credit. If payment is made by letter of credit, a 30 per cent margin deposit is required. The banks are not permitted to sell exchange for import payments in advance of the arrival of the documents. The Central Bank may authorize deferred payment or payment with funds derived from properly authenticated credits obtained abroad, provided that the imports are capital goods intended for development or production or for basic works complementary to production; such permission is at present limited mainly to 1 However, by virtue of Decree No. 1-L (effective March 1, 1963) the exchange proceeds of bananas, coco- nuts, copra, and coconut by-products exported through the ports of the region of El Cabo and the department of Zelaya may be used by the exporters to pay for commodities not produced in Nicaragua which they themselves import for the exclusive use of or consump- tion by the inhab i tan ts of those areas. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution industrial and agricultural machinery. Imports are not released from customs unless evidence is sub- mitted either that payment has been made through a bank (constancia) or that the Central Bank has approved importation on credit terms; this require- ment does not apply to duty-free imports from member countries of the Central American Com- mon Market. Most imports originating outside the Central American Common Market are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import duty. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not subject to license and may be made freely. Persons purchasing for- eign currency to make payments for invisibles are required, for statistical purposes, to complete a declaration specifying the purpose for which the foreign currency obtained will be used. Domestic and foreign currency notes may be exported freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, but a declara- tion to the customs authorities must be completed for statistical purposes. The exchange proceeds of exports do not have to be surrendered; however, they may not be used to pay for imports (exchange for which must be purchased from a bank with the exception noted in footnote 1). For certain agri- cultural exports (live cattle, beans, rice, corn, and cottonseed), the Ministry of Economy can fix minimum export prices or can temporarily pro- hibit their export in order to avoid domestic shortages. Proceeds from Invisibles The surrender of foreign exchange derived from invisibles is not required. Domestic and foreign currency notes may be imported freely. Capital Remittances on account of foreign capital and capital transfers by residents and nonresidents may be made freely under the general provisions of the NICARAGUA Exchange Law of March 1, 1963 or under the Law on Foreign Investments of February 26, 1955 (effective March 11, 1955). Under the 1955 law, foreign investments approved by the Central Bank and registered are guaranteed the following priv- ileges: repatriation of the registered capital; trans- fer of earnings, profits, or interest on the capital; and re-exportation of goods imported for invest- ment. Commercial banks require the prior approval of the Central Bank for all borrowing abroad. Gold Residents may freely and without license pur- chase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Nicara- gua. Producers of gold sell their newly mined gold to outsiders at free market prices. Imports and exports of gold require prior government authori- zation. Imports of gold jewelry need not be regis- tered with the Central Bank but do require an import license. Changes during 1968 June 21. An import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import duty under the Central American Common External Tariff was imposed on most imports originating outside the Central American Common Market. June 21. Internal consumption taxes of 10 per cent or 20 per cent were imposed on imports from all sources of specified consumer goods listed in the Protocol of San Jose. June 21. A sales tax was imposed on certain commodities, whether locally produced or imported; exempt were goods also exempt from the 30 per cent import surcharge and goods subject to excise on internal consumption taxes. The sales tax was levied at a standard rate of 5 per cent; the rate was 30 per cent, however, for certain com- modities produced domestically in sufficient quantity. June 21. Decree No. 1456 raised the customs valuation basis for used automobiles to the c.i.f. value when new. 347 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER1 Exchange System No par value for the currency of Niger has been established with the Fund. The unit of cur- rency is the CFA Franc, which is officially main- tained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.2 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de PAfrique de TOuest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. The domestic negotiation of the currency of Guinea is prohibited. Niger's exchange control measures do not apply to relations with (1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; (2) the other member countries of the West African Monetary Union (Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta); and (3) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, Congo (Brazzaville), Gabon, the Malagasy Republic, and Ma l i). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Niger itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exter- nal Finance Division in the Ministry of Finance, which also supervises borrowing abroad, the issu- ing, advertising, or sale of foreign securities in Niger, and inward and outward direct investment. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the intermediary of the banks and the Postal Administration, any information 1 In view of changes that took place early in 1969 (see note at the end of this su rvey ), this survey presents the position on February 17, 1969. 2 The CFA f ranc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de TOuest (BCEAO) and is the com- mon currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mau r i tan ia, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 348 necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through the BCEAO or authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of Economic Affa irs in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Com- merce, and Industry, except those for gold, which are granted by the Ministry of Finance. Import certificates for liberalized commodities are made out by the importer himself and approved by the External Finance Division. Prescription of Currency Niger is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France (including its Overseas Departments and Territories, except that of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those coun- tries—provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFAF banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments All imports of commodities originating in Por- tugal or its overseas provinces, Rhodesia, or South Africa are prohibited. The import from any source of rice, wheat flour, and certain footwear and plastic goods requires prior authorization, irre- spective of whether an import license or import certificate is also required. A similar regime applies to imports of sugar, except from member countries of the Common Organization of African ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution and Malagasy States, and to imports of matches, except from countries of the West African Cus- toms Union. Imports from France and the Opera- tions Account countries in the French Franc Area of all goods other than those mentioned may be made freely without a license or certificate. Imports from other countries require either a license or an import certificate. Imports of virtu- ally all goods from Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia, and EEC countries, many goods from other for- mer OEEC countries and their past or present dependent territories, and a smaller number of items from the United States and Canada are lib- eralized and require only an import certificate. Imports of nonliberalized goods from non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area are made under global quotas in accordance with an annual program that is determined each year by the Min- istry of Economic Affairs, Commerce, and Indus- try; the program generally reflects the require- ments indicated by importers and is established in mutual agreement within a joint French-Niger Committee. Goods not subject to quantitative restriction may be imported on an import certifi- cate, i.e., a declaration made out by the importer. All import transactions with foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import licenses or import certificates entitle import- ers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the authorized bank is satisfied that the import transaction is genuine and in accordance with the import title. Import certificates require the visa of the External Finance Division if the goods are payable before importation. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the External Finance Division. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account coun- tries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to NIGER CFAF 50,000 a year for each person; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining after return to Niger must be surrendered. The transfer of half the salary of a foreigner working in Niger is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the trans- fer takes place within three months of the pay period. Travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 10,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and bank- notes issued by other Operations Account coun- tries. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes but must declare these if they exceed CFAF 15,000. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. With the exception of peanuts, peanut oil, peanut cakes, sisal, cotton, cottonseed, and certain imported commodities, all of which require a license, exports to France and the Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. Exports to all other countries of domestic products and imported commodities require a license and an exchange commitment. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Operations Account country must be surrendered. All export trans- actions with foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins). The import of Guinean currency is prohibited. 349 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER Capital Capital movements between Niger and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account coun- tries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such coun- tries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issu- ing, offering for sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Niger; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Niger, the control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Terri- tories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, the other member coun- tries of the West African Monetary Union, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Foreign direct investments in N ige r3 and Niger direct investments abroad,4 must be declared to the Minister of Finance when they are being made, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed prof- its. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration, during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. The fu ll or partial liquidation of either type of direct investment also requires declaration. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Niger investments abroad or foreign investments in Niger, must be reported to the Minister of Finance within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere partici- pation is not considered as direct investment, pro- 3 Including those made by companies in Niger that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Niger of foreign companies. 4 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly con- trolled by persons in Niger and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Niger. 350 vided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, offering for sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Niger requires prior autho- rization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connec- tion with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Niger Government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing or offering for sale in Niger has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in Niger, or by branches or subsidiaries in Niger of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the per- sons or firms mentioned above, or with the financ- ing of commercial transactions either between Niger and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be notified to the Minis- ter of Finance within 20 days, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 500,000 or less. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization and is restricted. Foreign investments in Niger may be granted certain guarantees and facilities under the Invest- ment Code of July 31, 1968 (Decree No. 68-247 PRN ). Existing benefits accorded under the pre- vious Investment Code (Law No. 61-21 of July 12, 1961) have been maintained. The Invest- ment Code of July 12, 1961 provided for preferen- tial status that could be granted to new enterprises in industry, agriculture, real estate, and, in some cases, commerce, when such investments were deemed to be of value to national development. Three preferential regimes were established: A, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution B, and C. The most liberal benefits were offered by Regime C, which was applicable to enterprises or industries of particular importance for the implementation of Niger's economic and social development plan. This regime was characterized by the signing of a founding agreement (conven- tion d'etablissement) stipulating the mutual rights and obligations of the State and the enterprise. This agreement, with a validity of 10 to 20 years, provided guarantees of stability with respect to legal, economic, financial, and tax matters. Regimes A and B could grant many of the same benefits but for a shorter period, with a maximum of 10 years. Firms covered by the 1961 Invest- ment Code must undertake not to repatriate within a period of 3 years the foreign capital invested in them. The new Investment Code provides for priv- ileged or regular (de droit commuri) treatment. The latter provides, for both new and existing enterprises, assurances with respect to indemni- ties in the event of nationalization, and concern- ing nondiscrimination between Niger nationals and foreign nationals; tax exemptions will be granted to new investments. Privileged treatment is reserved for enterprises deemed to be of special importance to national economic development and falling within specified categories of industrial activities. Such treatment may be accorded under two different regimes, the approval regime (regime d'agrement) and the agreement regime (regime conventional). Gold Residents are free to hold gold in any form in Niger. They are also free to acquire and dispose of gold in any form in Niger. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1968 January 1. With the exception of sugar and plastic materials, imports of all commodities NIGER originating in and shipped from EEC countries other than France were liberalized. January 17. Decree No. 68-015 amended Decree No. 67-161; Article 22 was revoked, and residents traveling to countries outside the West African Monetary Union had to declare at the point of exit the amount of BCEAO banknotes taken out if this exceeded CFAF 150,000 (pre- viously CFAF 250,000). February 20. Law No. 68-011 completed Article 191 of Law No. 61-17 concerning the customs regime. March 5. Order No. 66/MF made the import of rice from any country subject to license. March 15. A trade agreement with Rumania went into effect. All settlements would take place in convertible currencies. April 1. The special payments arrangements with Mali were terminated, following the opening by Mali of an Operations Account with the French Treasury. May 31. Decree No. 68-66/MF, by amending Decree No. 67-161/MF of November 30, 1967, re-established temporary exchange controls in relations with foreign countries. These were defined as all countries other than Niger, France, Monaco, the other countries of the West African Monetary Union, and the other Operations Account countries. June 1. Order No. 68-137/MF-SFE intro duced an exchange allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 a person a trip for travel to foreign countries. The export by travelers to foreign coun- tries of BCEAO banknotes was limited to CFAF 50,000 a person a trip. Any such bank- notes that were to be taken out were deducted from the exchange allocation. June 5. Order No, 68-138/MF-SFE listed the types of payments to foreign countries that could be made freely through an authorized bank. Non- resident accounts in Niger could not be credited with BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. June 5. Order No. 68-139/MF-SFE appointed the BCEAO, two other banks, and the Postal Administration as authorized banks. 351 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER June 21. By virtue of Decree No. 68-74/MF, the importation and domestic negotiation of Mali francs ceased to be prohibited, and the import and export of banknotes and coins of Nigeria no longer was subject to declaration. July 31. A new Investment Law was promul- gated by Decree No. 68-24/PRN. All contrary provisions, notably Law No. 61-21 of July 12, 1961, were revoked. Existing priority regimes and founding agreements (conventions d'etablisse- ment) remained in force, however, and could upon application be adapted to the new law. September 20. Decree No. 68-138/MF revoked Decree No. 68-66/MF and the regulations issued for its implementation. This action abolished the temporary exchange controls. November 27. Decree No. 68-151/MF sus- pended Decree No. 68-138/MF and put into force again the provisions of Decree No. 68-66/ MF and all regulations issued for its implementa- tion. This action re-established exchange control in relations with foreign countries. All import and export transactions relating to foreign countries had to be domiciled with authorized banks. December 24. Decree No. 68-159/MF pro- hibited, except with the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, all payments and transfers by residents to foreign countries, or within Niger, in favor of a nonresident; all imports and exports of gold, means of payment, and securities; and all transactions and transfers leading to the constitu- tion of assets abroad by a resident, or to the hold- ing of foreign means of payment in Niger by a resident. All claims on foreign countries or non- residents resulting from exports, earnings, or income had to be collected and, where appro- priate, surrendered. Decrees Nos. 68-151/MF and 68-66/MF were revoked. December 24. Decree No. 68-160/MF sub- mitted to control by the Minister of Finance all claims and liabilities in CFA francs and in any foreign currency that banks in Niger had vis-a-vis foreign countries. This control could be delegated to the BCEAO (see also January 28 and 30, 1969, below). December 26. Order No. 381/MF-SFE listed the types of payment that could be made freely, through an authorized bank, to foreign countries. Nonresident accounts in Niger could no longer be 352 credited with BCEAO banknotes, French bank- notes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. All amounts subject to sur- render had to be collected and, where appropriate, sold on the exchange market, within two months of the due date. Such payments could not be col- lected in banknotes or to the debit of a postal checking account in Niger. The due date for export receipts had in principle to be within 180 days after arrival of the commodities. The order also contained definitions of "foreign countries," "residents," and "nonresidents." Foreign coun- tries were defined as on May 31, above. December 26. Order No. 382/MF-SFE pro- vided that resident and nonresident travelers could not take out more than CFAF 10,000 in BCEAO banknotes, or the equivalent in French banknotes or banknotes of an institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Imports by resident or nonresident travelers of BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and bank- notes of other Operations Account countries would be free, as would be imports of any means of payment denominated in a foreign currency. December 26. Order No. 383/MF-SFE ap- pointed two commercial banks as authorized banks. December 26. Order No. 384/MF-SFE required prior approval to send means of payment, titles to claims or property, and domestic or foreign securities to a foreign country through the mail or by parcel post. The BCEAO and the autho- rized banks were exempt from this prior approval. NOTE. —The following changes took place early in 1969: January 11. Decree No. 69-35 provided regu- lations for the implementation of Law No. 68-24, the new Investment Law. January 16. Circular No. 1/MF-SFE estab- lished approval procedures for payments to for- eign countries. January 16. Circular No. 2/MF-SFE estab- lished procedures for the domiciliation of import transactions and for payments for imports. January 16. Circular No. 3/MF-SFE estab- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER lished procedures for the domiciliation of export transactions and for controls over the repatriation of export proceeds. January 28. The control over the banks' posi- tion vis-a-vis foreign countries in CFA francs and foreign currencies was delegated to the BCEAO. January 30. The BCEAO, by Instruction No. 1 to Banks, requested the banks to provide monthly data on their foreign positions. For this purpose, all countries other than Niger were to be con- sidered foreign countries. February 6. The Ministry of Finance issued Notice No. 1/MF-SFE to the authorized banks, concerning Foreign Accounts in Francs and for- eign dossiers for securities. The former were defined as comprising accounts in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. With minor exceptions, all over- drafts on such accounts and all advances to non- residents required approval. February 17. The BCEAO issued Instruction No. 2 to Banks, concerning forward liabilities in foreign currencies. February 17. Circular No. 4/MF-SFE estab- lished the terms on which foreign exchange could be purchased forward. This was only allowed for import payments; the facility was limited to speci- fied commodities, either for one month or for three months, and could not be renewed. 353 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Nigerian Pound or <£N 1 = US$2.80. The Cen- tral Bank of Nigeria quotes rates at which it is prepared to deal in sterling and U.S. dollars with authorized dealers and the public; such dealings are for approved transactions of not less than the equivalent of <£ stg. 10,000 and are on a spot basis only. The Central Bank's rates for sterling are determined by the Bank from time to time. The rates for the U.S. dollar are determined on the basis of the Central Bank's prevailing rate for sterling against the Nigerian pound. The Central Bank is prepared to quote rates to authorized dealers and its customers for specific transactions on a spot basis only for the currency of any other Sterling Area territory except South Africa and South-West Africa or for any specified currency.1 For approved transactions authorized dealers may deal at market rates, spot or forward, between themselves, with authorized banks in the Sterling Area, and with customers. Authorized dealers may enter freely into contracts with resi- dents of Nigeria for the purchase or sale of any foreign cu r rency2 except Rhodesian pounds for delivery at a future date, provided that the trans- action is one that would be acceptable on a spot basis (see above) and that the transaction relates to a firm commercial contract for the import or export of goods or to freight charges on a specific shipment of goods, and is expressed as payable in a foreign currency. Forward contracts related to imports must not extend more than six months beyond the expiration date of the import license, or beyond the date of import when the license has no expiration date or when no license is required. Forward contracts related to exports may cover any necessary period, provided that payment for the goods is to be received within six months of shipment, or within such longer period as may have been authorized. 1 The specified currencies are Aus tr ian schillings, Bel- gian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Nether- lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. 2 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the N iger ian pound. 354 Until further notice, all export proceeds in for- eign currencies2 (except the proceeds of oil exports) are centralized with the Central Bank, which supplies the authorized banks with foreign exchange for approved payments. Administration of Control The Federal Ministry of Finance is responsible for basic exchange control policy and, in prin- ciple, for approving applications for the following: the repatriation of capital and transfer of profits to any country outside Nigeria; the raising of exter- nal loans, including repayment of such loans; bor- rowing in Nigeria by companies controlled directly or indirectly from outside Nigeria; the granting of "approved status" to nonresident investments in Nigeria; and any dealings in for- eign securities. The Central Bank of Nigeria is the principal administrator of the exchange con- trol. Most commercial banks and acceptance houses are authorized by the Ministry of Finance to deal in foreign currencies and to approve appli- cations in accordance with instructions issued by the Central Bank. Any application that does not fall within the scope of the authority of these autho- rized dealers must be submitted to the Central Bank, or, for the transactions mentioned above, to the Ministry of Finance. The administration of trade controls is carried out by the Federal Ministry of Trade and the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Nigeria is a member of the Sterling Area,3 but payments to Sterling Area countries are sub- ject to the same approval requirements that are applicable to settlements with other foreign coun- tries. Authorized payments to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in Nigerian pounds to an External Account in Nigeria, in sterling to an External Account in the United Kingdom, or in any non-Sterling Area currency. Authorized payments to countries in the Sterling Area may be made in Nigerian pounds to a Scheduled Territories Account in 3 Nigeria's def in i t ion for exchange control purposes of the Sterling Area does not include South Afr ica or South-West Africa. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Nigeria, or in sterling. The proceeds of exports to foreign countries except Rhodesia may be received in Nigerian pounds from an External Account or a Scheduled Territories Account, or in a specified currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia; most payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Nigerian pounds of persons resi- dent outside Nigeria are divided into three cate- gories: Scheduled Territories Accounts, main- tained for persons permanently resident in a foreign country within the Sterling Area; Rhodesia Accounts, maintained for residents of Rhodesia; and External Accounts, maintained for residents of all other countries. Scheduled Territories Accounts may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Nigeria, with transfers from other Scheduled Territories Accounts and from External Accounts, and, sub- ject to compliance with existing regulations, with proceeds from sales of all currencies except Niger- ian pounds or Rhodesian pounds. They may be debited for payments to residents of Nigeria, for transfers to other Scheduled Territories Accounts and, subject to prior approval, to External Accounts, and for purchases of sterling or other Sterling Area currencies for approved purposes. All permitted payments to Rhodesia must be made by crediting Rhodesia Accounts. All debits and credits to Rhodesia Accounts require prior approval by the Central Bank. External Accounts may be credited with autho- rized payments by residents of Nigeria to resi- dents of foreign countries other than Rhodesia, with transfers from other External Accounts and from Scheduled Territories Accounts, and with proceeds from sales of foreign currencies other than Sterling Area currencies or Rhodesian pounds. They may be debited for payments to residents of Nigeria, for transfers to other Exter- nal Accounts and to Scheduled Territories Ac- counts, and for purchases of foreign currencies other than Sterling Area currencies or Rhodesian pounds. Imports and Import Payments NIGERIA Africa are prohibited, as is the import from all countries of about 20 commodities for health, safety, moral, or religious reasons; the import of about 20 other commodities or groups of com- modities is also prohibited unless specific condi- tions have been complied with and these condi- tions are specified in the licenses authorizing such imports. Individual specific import licenses are required for the following: (1) All imports from Albania, mainland China, Eastern Germany, Hong Kong, Japan,4 North Korea, Macao, Ruma- nia, Tibet, and North Viet-Nam. (2) All imports of 66 specified commodities. (3) Imports of products the export of which is subject to Marketing Board control (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below). (4) Imports of wheat and sugar from countries not participating in the International Wheat and Sugar Agreements. (5) Imports from the dollar area of coal and coke. ( 6) Imports from the Netherlands of onions not grown in a specified region. Imports not pro- hibited or subject to specific licensing may be imported under open general license. Authorized dealers may grant foreign exchange for all authorized imports. Payment in advance of shipment, however, requires the approval of the Central Bank. The Central Bank sells foreign exchange in respect of import payments to autho- rized dealers against formal letters of request sup- ported by approved exchange control forms and certified bills of entry and invoices. A "national reconstruction surcharge" of 1Y2 per cent is levied on the c.i.f. value of virtually all imports. Most other commodities are subject to an import surcharge of 10 per cent of the c.i.f. value. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to residents of other countries are subject to individual approval; for some cate- gories of invisibles this is granted up to specified limits by the authorized dealers. Applications for payments that cannot be approved by the autho- rized dealers are forwarded to the Central Bank, which gives approval for some types of payment, provided that tax and other requirements have All importers must be registered. All imports from Rhodesia, South Africa, and South-West 4 No licenses are issued for commodities of Japanese origin. 355 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA been satisfied. However, as mentioned above, cer- tain applications require approval from the Min- istry of Finance. All insurance other than that for which facilities do not exist in Nigeria must be taken out with a company in Nigeria. Sixty per cent of ship charter payments for export ship- ments must be settled in local currency. Residents are entitled to a basic travel allow- ance of <£N 100 a year a person for travel outside Nigeria ( < £N 50 a year for children). Foreign exchange for this purpose may be sold to resi- dents by authorized dealers. In addition, travel agents and shipping and airline companies in Nigeria may sell transportation tickets for any- where in the world, except Rhodesia, against pay- ment in Nigerian currency. The cost of services rendered by travel agents in respect of hotel accom- modation, meals en route, etc., must be covered from the basic travel allowance. Foreign nationals residing in Nigeria may purchase annually foreign currency up to 50 per cent of their gross taxable earnings in Nigeria for all personal remittances, including the basic travel allowance. Persons going abroad are permitted to take with them <£ 50 in sterling. Residents are permitted to take out the equivalent of their basic travel allowance of «£N 100 in foreign currency notes; nonresident visitors may take out £50 in sterling and any other foreign currency notes that were declared upon entry. The export of Nigerian cur- rency notes and coins is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Most locally produced goods may be exported freely, under open general license, to any other country except South Africa and South-West Africa (exports to these countries require individual licenses). Individual export licenses are required for exports of cigarettes and tobacco, columbite, tin and by-products of tin, tantalite, unrefined gold, petroleum products, goods made wholly or partly of imported components, and products subject to control by the Marketing Board (e.g., cocoa, cotton, cottonseed, benniseed, groundnuts, groundnut oil, palm oil, and palm kernels). The export of certain goods (African antiquities or works of art produced before 1918, objects that are being used or have been used in African cere- monies) is prohibited, except under prescribed 356 conditions. The export of explosives, other than industrial explosives, and of certain foods is pro- hibited. Exports of petroleum and petroleum products are subject to special arrangements. Export proceeds must be surrendered to an authorized dealer in Nigeria, the United Kingdom, or the United States within six months from the day of shipment. For all exports, including those destined for a country in the Sterling Area, the exporter is required to submit an exchange con- trol declaration at the time of shipment; the requirement also applies to exports of hydro- carbon oils to the Sterling Area. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 1) must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. Persons entering Nigeria may freely bring in foreign banknotes. The import of Nigerian currency notes and coins is prohibited. Capital Except for the purpose of financing imports or exports, permission from the Ministry of Finance is required for any individual, firm, company, or branch resident in Nigeria to borrow in any coun- try outside Nigeria. Official agencies and state- controlled corporations require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance for any foreign bor- rowing. Nonresidents of the Sterling Area intend- ing to make direct investments in Nigeria are invited to apply to the Ministry of Finance for "approved status," the granting of which means that sympathetic consideration will be given to future requests to repatriate the capital. The granting of "approved status" is not applicable to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange in Nigeria unless this forms an integral part of the approved investment project. The repatriation of foreign capital requires approval from the Min- istry of Finance. The permission of the Ministry of Finance is also required for borrowing in Nigeria (1) by any nonresident individual or company, (2) by any company registered in Nigeria (other than a bank) which is controlled directly or indirectly from outside Nigeria, or (3) by any branch in Nigeria of a nonresident company (other than a bank ). However, to enable entities mentioned under (2) and (3) to meet temporary shortages ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of funds, licensed banks in Nigeria may grant loans or overdrafts for periods not exceeding 14 days, or may increase the amount of any advance or overdraft by the amount of loan interest or bank charges payable thereon. General permis- sion is also given for any loan, bank overdraft, or other credit facility to be arranged to finance Nigerian imports or exports of goods. Residents of Nigeria may not deal in foreign currency securities nor may they buy from or sell to nonresidents of Nigeria any security payable in Nigerian pounds without the permission of the Ministry of Finance. The capital proceeds of securities registered in Nigeria and owned by nonresidents may be col- lected and negotiated through authorized dealers, provided that the prior permission of the Minis- try of Finance is obtained. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Nigeria for numismatic purposes. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not allowed without special permission to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require specific licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authori- ties, producers of gold, and industrial users. Imports of gold coins and of gold and silver bul- lion are duty free when made by the Central Bank for monetary purposes; otherwise, such imports NIGERIA are subject to customs du ty at 100 per cent ad valorem. Changes during 1968 January 17. Imports of specified nonessential consumer goods, including passenger cars, and many other commodities previously under open general import license were made subject to spe- cific import licensing. April 29. The "national reconstruction sur- charge" was raised from 5 per cent to 7% per cent of the c.i.f. value for all goods subject to the surcharge other than unmanufactured tobacco imported for the manufacture of cigarettes. April 29. A further range of goods previously covered by open general import license was made subject to specific import licensing. May. All goods which could previously be imported duty free were made subject to a 10 per cent ad valorem import surcharge. June 1. The import of certain foodstuffs, towels and blankets, previously prohibited, was made subject to specific licensing. September 9. Applications for foreign exchange to make payment for shipping, marine insurance, and other foreign trade dues were made subject to specific authorization by the Ministry of Finance. Sixty per cent of ship charter payments for export shipments was to be settled in local currency. November 18. All foreign companies operat- ing in Nigeria were required to incorporate under Nigerian law. 357 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.124414 gram of fine gold per Norwegian Krone or NKr 7.14286 = US$1. The official limits for the U.S. dollar are NKr 7.09 buying, and NKr 7.20 selling, per US$1 —rates at which the exchange authorities will buy or sell; the rate for the U.S. dollar fluc- tuates in the exchange market between these lim- its. Market rates for most Western European cur- rencies vary between limits which result from combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Norway and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. Forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Forward transactions with residents must have a commercial basis. Norway accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as f rom May 11, 1967. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Min- istry of Commerce and Shipping in cooperation with the Bank of Norway. The authority to approve most current payments has been dele- gated to authorized banks. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Shipping and, in certain cases, by the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Fisheries. Imports and exports of precious metals, and of semimanufactured articles thereof, are licensed by the Bank of Norway. Prescription of Currency Payments between Norway and Rhodesia are prohibited when they relate to imports, exports, or transit trade, and in all other cases are subject to special license issued by the Bank of Norway. Settlements with all other countries except East- ern Germany may be made in any convertible currency, including Norwegian kroner on Con- vertible Krone Accounts (see section on Nonresi- dent Accounts, below). Payments between Nor- way and Eastern Germany are settled on a bilateral basis in accordance with a clearing arrangement. 358 Nonresident Accounts The main type of nonresident account is the Convertible Krone Account. Such accounts may be held by residents of all countries except East- ern Germany (see section on Prescription of Cur- rency, above). They may be credited with autho- rized payments to any country other than Eastern Germany, with transfers from other Convertible Krone Accounts, and with proceeds from the sale in Norway of convertible currencies. They may be debited for authorized payments from any country except Eastern Germany to residents of Norway, for transfers to other Convertible Krone Accounts, and for purchases in Norway of any foreign currency. Imports and Import Payments Most imports do not require an import license. Practically all industrial goods may be imported freely f rom the import free list area1 upon pre- sentation of the original invoice. Imports of a few commodities, including certain temperate zone agricultural products, are restricted, irrespective of origin. There are two restricted lists for spe- cified countries —one applicable to imports from Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and the U.S.S.R., and the other appli- cable to imports from Japan and the Republic of Korea; many of the goods on these lists are licensed automatically. Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. A global quota list contains 13 quotas for agricultural products for which imports are per- mitted up to fixed limits; these quotas apply to all countries. New and secondhand ships built abroad, other than ships that are 20 years old or older and certain categories of fishing vessels, may be imported freely, but a special permission is required in order to supervise compliance with certain regulations regarding payments in advance of delivery. The import of a small number of commodities is prohibited for health and similar reasons, and certain goods (some grains, alco- 1 The import free list area comprises all countries except Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Japan, North Korea, Republic of Korea, Macao, Mon- golia, Poland, Rhodesia, Ruman ia, U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution holic beverages, equipment and materials for the fishing industry, pharmaceutical products, and drugs) are imported by government monopolies. If no license is required, or when an import license has been obtained, payment may be made without delay, provided that the method of pay- ment is in conformity with the general rules (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Payments for Invisibles Payments to any other country except Eastern Germany for all current invisibles, including income from capital and contractual amortiza- tion, may be made freely. Payments for invisibles to Eastern Germany must be made in the manner prescribed in the payments arrangement, a liberal practice being followed with regard to most invis- ibles. Payments for any purpose to any country other than Eastern Germany or Rhodesia do not require verification by authorized banks, pro- vided that these payments do not exceed the equivalent of NKr 500. The granting of exchange for travel purposes is not restricted. The basic exchange allow- ance for tourist travel abroad is equivalent to NKr 5,000 a trip for each person. For business travel, the banks may sell reasonable amounts. Each person leaving Norway may take with him up to NKr 350 in Norwegian banknotes and coins, in denominations not exceeding NKr 100. Nonresidents leaving Norway may, in addition, export any foreign banknotes brought into the country by them. Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported freely to coun- tries in the export free list area,2 against a dec- laration or a license, which is granted automati- cally. Exports subject to regulation are listed and require export licenses. All exports to countries outside the export free list area require an export license. Exports to any country valued at not more than NKr 500 are exempt from export license. Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited, with the exception of shipments for medical, human i- tar ian, or educational purposes. 2 The export free list area comprises all coun tr ies except A lban ia, Bulgaria, ma in land China, Czechoslo- v ak i a, Eastern Ge rmany, Hung a ry, No r th Korea, Mon- golia, Poland, Rhodesia, Rum an i a, U.S.S.R., and North V ie t-Nam. NORWAY Payments must be received within 12 months of shipment and in conformity with the regula- tions (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). All exchange from exports must be sur- rendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Each person entering Norway may bring in Nor- wegian banknotes and coins up to NKr 1,000, in denominations not exceeding NKr 100, and other means of payment without limit. Capital Inward transfers of capital and investments in Norway by nonresidents must be approved by the Bank of Norway. Outward transfers of capital require individual licenses; the granting of these licenses depends on the merits of the case. Licenses for outward transfers of proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments made in Norway by nonresidents are granted freely, and nonresident capital may be repatriated automati- cally. Payments for contractual amortization are also permitted freely. Most transactions in secu- rities involving nonresident interests are subject to approval. Norwegian securities purchased by nonresidents from Norwegian residents by spe- cial permission may be resold to Norwegian resi- dents who will be granted licenses for the trans- fer of the proceeds from the sale. Personal capital transfers, such as transfers relating to family loans, gifts, inheritances, leg- acies, dowries, emigrants' assets, savings of non- resident workers, and amounts in settlement of immigrants' debts, may be made freely to any member country of the International Monetary Fund. In general, resident-owned capital assets abroad, other than securities, real estate, and other authorized investments, have to be surren- dered. Applications for capital transfers to make direct investments abroad are considered on their individual merits, and portfolio investment abroad is approved only exceptionally. Resident- owned foreign securities quoted on a recognized stock exchange are freely negotiable between residents, provided that the securities originally were acquired by a resident before October 1, 1966, or that they have been bought with the 359 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY proceeds of foreign securities acquired before that date. Residents may upon application trans- fer capital abroad to purchase, for recreational purposes, real estate valued at up to NKr 50,000 a family. Residents other than banks require the prior approval of the Bank of Norway before raising loans, accepting other forms of capital, or incur- ring or providing guarantee obligations abroad. Commercial banks have been directed to limit their borrowing abroad in conformity with gen- eral guidelines issued annually. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Norway for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Bank of Norway; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. No customs duties or other charges or fees are pay- able on imports or exports of gold bullion and gold coins not contained in jewelry. Changes during 1968 January 1. The global quotas for 1968 went into effect. February 5. Guidelines for the banks' borrow- ing from abroad in 1968 were announced. It was assumed that the total net supply of capital from abroad for entities other than the Government and the Norwegian credit institutions (including drawings on loans previously taken up that mean- while were placed abroad on an interest-bearing basis) would not exceed NKr 1 billion, of which NKr 400 million would be borrowed in connec- tion with ship imports. Thus, NKr 600 million would be available for private, municipal, and public enterprises. The guidelines implied that, in 1968, Norwegian credit institutions would not finance their domestic lending by taking up addi- tional funds abroad. The exchange authorities assumed that the banks would not increase their combined borrowings abroad (including time deposits in foreign exchange and endorsement liabilities in connection with the financing of commercial paper for imports and exports) beyond the monthly average level for 1966. June 10. Imports of specified cotton textiles from Portugal required an individual license. Licenses would only be granted if a binding con- tract had been concluded prior to June 10. July 26. A Royal Resolution issued in con- formity with the law of July 6, 1968 prohibited all payments to and from Rhodesia for imports and exports of merchandise (including transit trade) and made all other payments to and from Rhodesia subject to a special license. October 1. Seven items on the special restricted list applicable to imports from Japan and the Republic of Korea were liberalized. November 12. The provisions regarding the self-financing of specialized ships (tankers, pas- senger ships, etc.) were abolished. December 4. Residents were allowed to buy real estate abroad for recreational purposes for an amount not exceeding NKr 50,000 a family. 360 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.186621 gram of fine gold per Pakistan Rupee or Pakistan Rupees 4.76190 = US$1. All transactions in foreign exchange must be conducted through authorized dealers, whose transactions with the general public must be effected at rates authorized by the State Bank of Pakistan on the basis of par values established with the International Monetary Fund. Autho- rized dealers in Pakistan are permitted to cover in the London market their requirements of speci- fied currencies. They may also cover their per- mitted transactions in specified currencies against sterling or Pakistan rupees, either spot or forward for a limited period, with their agents in the coun- tries concerned. On December 30, 1968, market rates for telegraphic transfers on London were <£8.7630 buying, and <£ 8.7370 selling, per PRs 100, and on New York they were US$20.9741 buying, and US$20.9865 selling, per PRs 100. Other effective rates arise from the negotiation of bonus vouchers which certain exporters and a few other earners or recipients of exchange may sell at freely determined rates to importers who need them in order to obtain import licenses for vari- ous commodities or to importers or others to obtain exchange for certain invisibles. The vouchers are quoted spot and forward on the Karachi stock exchange. On December 30, 1968, these vouchers issued under the Export Bonus Scheme were quoted at about PRs 181 per PRs 100 of nominal value. There are different effective rates arising from the negotiation of a special type of bonus voucher issued under a Bonus Scheme for Hotels. Administration of Control The State Bank of Pakistan has delegated to 30 banks and financial institutions authority to deal in all foreign currencies, to supervise surrender requirements, and to sell exchange for specified purposes within limits prescribed by the State Bank. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports is responsible for the issue of licenses and implementation of import and export policies. Certain foreign trade transactions are conducted through the Trading Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd., a state trading agency. Prescription of Currency Pakistan is a member of the Sterling Area, and the prescribed methods for settling both trade and nontrade transactions are similar to those of most other Sterling Area countries. Payments between Pakistan and India or Rhodesia are suspended; there is an inoperative clearing account with the former. Exchange receipts must be obtained through an authorized dealer. Receipts from countries in the Sterling Area must be received in sterling from the account of a resident of the Sterling Area (other than a resident of Pakistan) or in Pakistan rupees from the account of a bank in the Sterling Area. Receipts from countries outside the Sterling Area must be obtained in sterling from an Exter- nal Account in the United Kingdom, in Pakistan rupees from the account of a bank outside the Sterling Area, or in any non-Sterling Area cur- rency. Payments abroad must be made through an authorized dealer. Payments by residents of Pak- istan to countries in the Sterling Area are made by transferring sterling or any other Sterling Area currency, including Pakistan rupees, to an appro- priate account. Payments to countries outside the Sterling Area are made by transferring sterling or Pakistan rupees to a nonresident account or, in some cases, in the recipient's currency. For imports, payment is normally made to the country of origin of the goods. No exchange control is exercised over trans- actions with Afghanistan, and settlements are made in Pakistan rupees or afghanis. Trade trans- actions under "barter" agreements are settled through special accounts in inconvertible curren- cies. Trade in specified commodities with Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, North Korea, Nepal, Poland, Rumania, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia is settled through clearing accounts maintained in inconvertible Pakistan rupees. Pay- ments to and from Iran and Turkey relating to visible trade (excluding border trade and defense materials) are settled through clearing accounts maintained by the respective central banks in U.S. dollars. 361 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN Nonresident Accounts Different rules apply to nonresident rupee accounts of individuals, firms, or companies, on the one hand, and to nonresident rupee accounts of banks, on the other. Authorized dealers may open rupee accounts for banks abroad without reference to the State Bank, but approval is required for opening other nonresident accounts. Transfers from nonresident banks' rupee accounts in Pakistan to the corresponding sterling accounts in the United Kingdom are allowed, but other nonresident account holders must obtain permis- sion from the exchange control authorities for transfers from their credit balances. Accounts of residents of India, except those of the Indian High Commission and its personnel, are blocked. Imports and Import Payments Permitted imports are classified in four lists: a free list, a licensable list, an export bonus list (also called bonus import l is t ), and a cash-cum- bonus list. All imports require licenses, except goods on the free list and goods imported by the Central Government for defense or other pur- poses, goods in transit, personal baggage, certain imports over the land route from Afghanistan and Iran, and certain other items permitted under a Ministry of Commerce Notification (No. 335/ 260/24, June 12, 1951). The import of goods on the free list is restricted to registered industrial consumers and commercial importers, unless exemption from registration is obtained; however, limitations are applied to individual import entitle- ments for goods on this list, ceilings on individual letters of credit being based on past import per- formance. Permissible sources and conditions of procurement are prescribed for all items on the list. Import licenses for commodities on the licens- able list are granted on a discretionary basis; these licenses and licenses for items on the export bonus list and the cash-cum-bonus list are issued in accordance with procedures indicated below. Goods on the free list and the licensable list are imported at the official rate. Commodities not included in any of the four lists are prohibited or are not being licensed. With the exception of spe- cific country licenses issued in accordance with trade, aid, or loan agreements with particular countries, import licenses may be used in any country of the world other than India, Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa. Certain imports are 362 only effected through the intermediary of the Trading Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd.; they include specified raw materials, pig iron and cer- tain other metals, and sugar. Licensing takes place in accordance with criteria that are determined administratively, and imports take place at the official rate but, depending on the commodity, may be subject to price equalization levies. Imports of rice, wheat, and coal are also reserved to public sector agencies. Import licenses are issued on a c. & f. basis to established commercial importers and industrial consumers and only for commodities specified in the semiannual import program. The quantities to be licensed to established importers are determined by the authorities on an historical basis. A special industrial licensing procedure operates for imports of licensable items by recognized industrial units. This procedure allows specified industries to receive import licenses for items not on the free list on a specific basis determined by the compe- tent authority. For items on the licensable list, industrial consumers receive licenses according to fixed entitlements based on requirements for operations at single-shift capacity; commercial importers receive licenses under fixed quotas based on past import performance. Supplementary import licenses under an Export Performance Licensing Scheme are granted to exporting industries other than those producing cotton textiles and ju te manufactures for specified items of their production requirements other than items on the free list; these are designed, in prin- ciple, to cover the import content of exports, and imports are made at the official rate. Import licenses are issued freely under the Export Bonus Scheme for items on the export bonus list and for any item (other than sheet or plate glass) included in the free list, licensable list, or cash-cum-bonus list, provided that bonus vouchers equivalent to 100 per cent of the amount of the license are surrendered. The holder of a bonus voucher (entitlement to import) must apply within 30 days (12 months for imports of heavy machinery and equipment) of the receipt of the voucher for the issue of an import license for any of the items eligible under the Export Bonus Scheme. This license is issued without restriction and without the importer having to be registered. Import licenses issued against bonus vouchers are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution valid for 6 months from the day of their issue, except for imports of heavy machinery and equip- ment, for which the period may be extended up to 24 months. Licensing of items on the cash-cum- bonus list is subject to the surrender of bonus vouchers equivalent to 50 per cent of the amount of the license; the licenses issued for items on the cash-cum-bonus list are stamped "nontransfer- able." Capital goods generally are licensed only under foreign aid. Imports of capital goods are payable at the official rate, but any required downpayment on private sector imports of capital goods and on most public sector imports of such goods requires surrender of bonus vouchers equivalent to 100 per cent of the downpayment. Except for imports against bonus import licenses, letters of credit must be opened for all commercial imports. Remittances are not normally permitted before shipping documents are received, but in special cases, e.g., machinery and other capital goods for which deposits have to be made with foreign manufacturers, the State Bank may authorize advance payments for a part of the value of the goods. Imports at the official rate of certain aid- financed iron and steel items, cement, coal, edible oils, and raw materials for the electrical equipment industry, etc., are subject to price equilization levies; the same items, when not financed with aid, are imported at the cash-cum-bonus rate. Imports of all commodities, except machinery, are subject to a "defense surcharge" of 25 per cent of the applicable rate of customs duty. Many imports are subject to a customs surcharge ("regulatory du ty") of 10 per cent ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled by the State Bank and require approval. No remittances are permitted to be made to India, Israel, or Rho- desia. Under authority delegated to them, autho- rized dealers may sell exchange or make remit- tances in accordance with detailed regulations. Certain remittances of a personal nature are sub- ject to annual quotas, but most are approved at the discretion of the State Bank. Remittances by Pakistani nationals to their families abroad require special authorization. PAKISTAN Payments for invisibles connected with imports are generally given the same treatment as that accorded the underlying trade transaction. Trans- port insurance must, except with respect to certain aid shipments, be taken out with insurance com- panies in Pakistan. The remittance of dividends declared out of current profits is allowed freely to foreign share- holders where the investment was made with the Government's approval. Profits of branches of foreign companies may be remitted freely to their head offices. The same applies to head office expenses charged to a branch's profit and loss account and accepted for tax purposes by the Pakistan income tax authorities. There is an annual allowance for pilgrims' travel to Saudi Arabia; in most cases, depending on the type of accommodation chosen by the traveler, the allowance is subject to surrender of bonus for an equivalent amount. No exchange is being granted until fu r ther notice for tourism or other private travel. However, exchange for busi- ness travel, medical treatment, and sponsored cul- tural trips may be granted on an individual basis. Exporters may use a limited percentage of their entitlements under the Export Bonus Scheme for business travel or for opening and maintaining branch offices outside Pakistan. The approval of the State Bank is required prior to booking pas- sage for foreign travel. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign cur- rency not exceeding the amounts they brought in and PRs 20 in Pakistan currency notes. Residents leaving for Afghanistan may take out PRs 50 in Pakistan currency notes and coins and any amount of Afghan currency. Persons traveling on Cate- gory "A" visas (to India) may not take out any Pakistan currency notes or coins. Residents travel- ing to other foreign destinations may take out PRs 20 in Pakistan currency and, subject to State Bank authorization, up to the equivalent of <£10 in foreign currency notes and coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of most commodities are allowed freely. However, export licenses are required for 24 listed items, as well as for certain types of sports goods and a few other items below min- imum export prices, and for mill-made cotton 363 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN piece goods and ready-made garments intended for export to the United Kingdom. Exports to India, Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are pro- hibited. The Trading Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd., has the monopoly over exports of specified products. The State Bank exercises control over exchange receipts and requires a declaration by the exporter that, when payment in accordance with the pre- scribed method is received, he will surrender the exchange within a certain period of time. Af ter making certain that the exporter's declaration meets all conditions, the authorized dealer certifies the shipment. Exporters are obliged to collect and surrender export proceeds within four months; export proceeds from ju te manufactures, however, must be repatriated within six months. There is an Export Bonus Scheme applicable to exporters of all goods other than certain specified commodities including the following major items: raw ju te; raw cotton; hides and skins, including lambskins but excluding fu rs and reptile skins; rice; and tea. Af ter surrendering all their exchange receipts for local currency, exporters of other primary products, by-products, semimanufactured goods, including unfinished cotton piece goods, and manufac tured goods involving a simple manu- facturing process are issued bonus vouchers of a value equivalent to 20, 30, or 40 per cent of the net exchange surrendered, while for exports of other goods the percentage is 40. Exporters must apply to the State Bank within 45 days of the retirement of bills of exchange relating to exports made under the scheme for the issuance of bonus vouchers. These vouchers are freely transferable and entitle the holder to import a wide range of specified commodities, which are not otherwise licensed for importation, as well as any commodity (except sheet or plate glass) included in any one of the three other import lists. Under an Export Performance Licensing Scheme, supplementary import licenses are avail- able to all exporting industries except those manu- facturing cotton textiles or jute goods (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above). Entitle- ments are up to 30 per cent of the f.o.b. value of exports. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of Afghan currency, which may be retained, incoming foreign exchange 364 derived from invisibles must be surrendered at the official rate within one month. Pakistanis and persons of Indo-Pakistan origin who are employed abroad, with the principal exception of civil ser- vants, are entitled to receive bonus vouchers equivalent to 40 per cent of all remittances of savings made by them to their relatives in Pak- istan; earners of foreign exchange from certain services (aircraft repairs, salvage and lighterage operations, and ship repairs) are entitled to receive bonus vouchers equivalent to 20 per cent of the net foreign exchange earned by them; and earners of foreign exchange from shipping are entitled to receive bonus vouchers equivalent to 30 per cent of their exchange earnings. Under the Bonus Scheme for Hotels, hotels are entitled to receive bonus vouchers against which they can obtain import licenses equivalent to 20 per cent of their exchange earnings from foreign tourists for room charges; these licenses are valid for a number of items required by the hotel industry. Bonus vouchers issued under this scheme are freely trans- ferable within the hotel industry and are stamped so as to distinguish them from other bonus vouchers. Bonus facilities apply also to Indus Basin con- tracts; all suppliers are entitled to bonus vouchers equivalent to 30 per cent of the foreign exchange earned from machinery items and 20 per cent from all other supplies, but not to bonus vouchers on advance payments for supplies to the Indus Basin Works. Persons traveling on Category "A" visas (from India) may not bring in any Pakistan currency notes or coins. Other travelers may bring in PRs 80 in Pakistan currency notes, subject to declaration to the customs, and Rs 5 in coins that are legal tender in India; Pakistan currency notes in denominations of PRs 50, 100, and 500 may not be brought in. There is no limitation on the import of other currency notes and coins, but they must be declared to the customs on entry. Capital Investments in Pakistan by nonresidents are subject to approval. In order to encourage indus- trial development in Pakistan, the Government follows a liberal policy toward foreign entrepre- neurs, who can start any industry in the private sector without any conditions being laid down ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution regarding the participation of local capital. It is, however, expected that local rupee expenditure will ordinarily be met from local equity capital. Repatriation facilities are as follows: (1) For- eign capital invested in approved industries estab- lished after September 1, 1954 may be repatriated at any time thereafter to the extent of the original investment, and current profits may be transferred without restriction, to the country of origin of the capital, (2) Profits that are reinvested in approved industrial projects with the approval of the Gov- ernment may be treated as investment for the pur- pose of subsequent repatriation. ( 3) Appreciation of any capital investment under (1) and (2) may also be treated as investment for the purpose of subsequent repatriation. These repatriation facili- ties do not apply to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange unless the purchase is an integral part of an approved investment project, or to cap- ital invested in Pakistan before September 1, 1954. Guarantees provide for just and fair compensa- tion in the currency of the country of origin of the investment, in the event of nationalization of any project. The Government has no nationalization measures under consideration. Foreign nationals in Pakistan or abroad may register their investments in National Prize Bonds issued by the Government of Pakistan, and thus facilitate repatriation at any time of the principal and prize winnings. Transfers of capital abroad by resident nationals are, in general, not permitted; the purchase of for- eign securities by resident Pakistanis requires approval by the State Bank. However, detailed rules govern the transfer of capital by persons emigrating or retiring from Pakistan, depending upon the nationality of the person concerned and the country or monetary area to which the transfer is to be made. Foreign nationals temporarily resid- ing in Pakistan are treated as nonresidents for pur- poses of transfer of securities. Foreign nationals are permitted to purchase Pakistan securities upon approval by the State Bank; the subsequent sale of such securities to foreign nationals and Pakistanis resident abroad also requires approval by the State Bank. The sale by a foreign national res- ident in Pakistan to a Pakistani also resident in Pakistan does not require such approval. General permission has been given for the transfer or transmission of shares from the name of a non- PAKISTAN resident shareholder holding shares with the approval of the State Bank to another nonresident shareholder in the same country, provided that the latter is a national of that country. Foreign life insurance companies have been given general per- mission to invest in shares issued by Pakistan com- panies and quoted on the Karachi stock exchange. Exports of securities are subject to approval. Proceeds accruing from the liquidation of non- resident capital assets that are not covered by repatriation arrangements may be credited to blocked accounts. Subject to approval by the State Bank, balances on blocked accounts may be invested in approved government securities pay- able in Pakistan rupees or placed on time deposit with banks. A general permission allows Pakistan nationals resident abroad to acquire securities in Pakistan by remittance of foreign exchange or to the debit of their nonresident accounts in Pakistan; dividends or interest thereon, as well as the pro- ceeds upon sale, must be credited to nonresident accounts and cannot normally be transferred abroad. Gold The export and import of gold is prohibited unless authorized by the State Bank. No such per- mission is granted, but there are no restrictions on the internal sale and purchase of nonmonetary gold. The movement of gold from West Pakistan to East Pakistan, where gold prices usually are higher, is subject to control and at present is limited to a quota of 2,000 tolas * a month. Changes during 1968 January 1. Specified raw materials, pig iron and certain other metals, and sugar could only be imported through the Trading Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd. January 1. The Import Policy for the first half of 1968 went into effect. Many private sector imports of raw materials, spare parts, and com- ponents were shifted from the official to the cash- cum-bonus rate. The number of items on the free list was increased from 10 to 14, but these had to be imported under foreign loans or barter arrange- ments. The cash-cum-bonus list was extended from 1 One tola equals 180 grains troy or 0.375 ounce. 365 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 11 to 74 items. The number of items on the licensable list was reduced from 99 to 25. The bonus import list contained 242 items. In addi- tion, items on the three other lists could also be imported against bonus vouchers to enable indus- tries to acquire additional amounts of raw mate- rials, spare parts, and components when needed. Under the export performance licensing procedure, all exporters, except the jute and cotton textile industries, could obtain supplementary import licenses according to export performance. January 12. The ju te industry became eligible for supplementary imports at the official rate under the Export Performance Licensing Scheme. January 17. A bilateral payments arrangement with Ceylon was ratified. February 13. No bonus was allowed to Pak- istan firms on any advance payments in foreign exchange received for supplies to the Indus Basin Works. March 6. The rate of bonus on certain jute manufac tures was raised from 20 per cent to 30 per cent for shipments made on or after February 7, 1968. March 30. An exchange quota of <£40 a per- son was announced for pilgrimages to Iran and Iraq. Those traveling by air had to surrender bonus vouchers corresponding to the amount of foreign exchange taken up. April 1. One hundred per cent bonus vouchers had to be surrendered for downpayments at the official rate for private sector imports of capital goods under suppliers' credits. May 3. An agreement relating to exports of Pakistan cotton textiles was signed with Benelux. Similar agreements with France, Italy, and the Federal Republic of Germany was signed on August 9, May 24, and August 2. May 16. Price equalization surcharges were introduced for 12 import commodities, including iron and steel, cement, coal, edible oils, diesel engines, and raw materials for the electrical equip- ment industry. June 1. Sugar could be freely imported by the private sector, subject to surrender of bonus vouchers corresponding to the full import value. Previously, no sugar was being imported. 366 July 2. Forward exchange facilities for up to six months were made available for imports under U.S. AID loans and all other foreign loans and credits except those under barter agreements. July 3. With certain exceptions, foreign nationals and their family members who had resided in Pakistan for a period of six months or more required the approval of the State Bank to book passages for travel abroad if they were not in the employment of the public sector and their employment had not been approved by the Depart- ment of Investment Promotion and Supplies. Such foreign nationals also became subject to the max- imum travel fares allowed for Pakistanis booking passages for travel abroad. July 9. All payments and transfers to Rhodesia were prohibited. July 13. The State Bank of Pakistan announced that it would purchase or rediscount export bills at 1 per cent below bank rate, provided that the benefit was passed on to exporters. July 15. Exchange rates were henceforth quoted per PRs 100 and in decimals instead of fractions. July 17. The Import Policy for the second half of 1968 was announced. Administrative discretion in regulating the composition and timing of imports was further reduced. The free list was unchanged while the items on the licensable list were increased from 25 to 31. The cush-cum- bonus list was lengthened from 71 items to 94, and the bonus import list from 242 items to 252. With the exception of certain official imports (ma in ly defense and food items), all imports by agencies in the public or semipublic sector financed from Pakistan's own foreign exchange resources would be made under cash-cum-bonus, and aid- financed public sector imports of the same items were made subject to price equalization levies. On August 15 it was announced that, with effect from July 1, 1968, all downpayments by such agencies for projects financed from credit lines had to be met fully through surrender of bonus vouchers, and opening of the letter of credit required the prior approval of the State Bank. Previously, this obligation only applied to required downpayments on private sector imports of capital goods. August 2. A general permission was granted to Pakistan nationals resident abroad to acquire secu- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution rities in Pakistan, provided that these were paid for either by remittance from abroad through normal banking chanels or out of funds held in their nonresident accounts maintained with autho- rized dealers in Pakistan. Sales proceeds, div- idends, and interest must be credited to nonresident accounts with authorized dealers in Pakistan. August 28. It was announced that Pakistanis working abroad were not entitled to receive 40 per cent bonus on inward remittances if they were among the following: those receiving salaries and emoluments abroad direct from Pakistan's foreign exchange resources, government servants on depu- tation with international organizations or foreign governments, and employees of Pakistan Interna- tional Airways. October 1. The requirement of a margin deposit of at least 15 per cent on letters of credit for free list imports was abolished. October 17. All imports of sugar were required PAKISTAN to be made by the Trading Corporation of Pak- istan, Ltd. October 24. Payment of freight in domestic currency on f.o.b. imports effected by government and semigovernmental agencies required the sur- render of a corresponding foreign exchange allo- cation or of bonus vouchers. November 1. Exports of tea were suspended. The maximum c.i.f. price permitted for imported tea was increased. November 14. Haj pilgrims traveling by air, or first or second class by ship, were required to sur- render bonus vouchers equal to the foreign exchange quota and the Jiddah dues. Deck pas- sengers continued to receive foreign exchange at the official rate. December 26. Payment of certain freight on imports under U.S. aid required the surrender of bonus vouchers for 30 per cent of the amount due. 367 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.888671 gram of fine gold per Panamanian Balboa or B 1.00 = US$1. U.S. cur- rency notes and coins circulate freely in Panama, and local currency is represented only by limited amounts of silver balboas and subsidiary coins. Exchange transactions by commercial banks are based on New York market quotations. Panama has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments. On November 26, 1946, Panama notified the Fund that it accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Import and export policy is determined by the Ministry of Agriculture, Commerce, and Industry. Most import and export licenses are issued by the Price Regulation Office, a semiautonomous insti- tution of the Panamanian Government. In rare cases, import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Agriculture, Commerce, and Industry. The Price Regulation Office is responsible for the implementation of restrictions on imports of com- modities that compete with national production and on certain exports; the Ministry of Agricul- ture, Commerce, and Industry determines the import quotas for commodities that are produced or are about to be produced in Panama. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Quotas are imposed on imports of commodities competing with present or prospective domestic production; some of these are not being licensed. Import licensing also applies to imports of various foods. Other imports are free. Payments abroad may be made freely. A tax of 3% per cent on the f.o.b. value is levied, in addition to import duty, on imports of all dutiable goods other than medical equipment and medicines. Exports and Export Proceeds Authorization is required for exports of coffee in any form, coconuts, copra, and beef cattle. Merchandise on which export taxes are imposed is also subject to licensing. Export taxes are imposed on the following: gold, silver, and plati- num; manganese; other minerals; bananas; coco- nuts; scrap metals; pearls; animal wax; nispero gum; ipecac root; and rubber. Exports of wheat flour, firearms, and ammunition are prohibited. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from invisibles These are not restricted. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home and abroad and may freely negotiate gold in any form with residents or nonresidents at home and abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry carried as personal effects by travelers are subject to license if made by resi- dents other than the monetary authorities; import and export licenses are issued freely by the Minis- try of Agriculture, Commerce, and Industry. Exports of unworked gold produced in Panama are subject to an export tax of 1 per cent ad valorem. Changes during 1968 During the year, imports of a number of addi- tional commodities became subject to restriction. 368 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY Exchange Rate System On March 1, 1956, a par value for the Para- guayan Guarani was established by Paraguay with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. Exchange transactions take place at free market rates, which since October 1960 have been pegged at & 123.60 buying, and <3 126.00 selling, per US$ 1. Settlements with Spain are made through a clearing account at a fixed rate of (5 125.00 per US$1. All purchases and sales of foreign exchange must be made through authorized commercial banks, except those related to government pay- ments for imports and services, which are carried out through the Central Bank. There are no for- ward exchange facilities. All purchases of exchange by banks are subject to a tax of % of 1 per cent. All remittances of foreign exchange are also sub- ject to a tax of % of 1 per cent. A tolerated free market exists in which the rate for the U.S. dollar was about & 131 on December 31,1968. The authorized banks are required to sell 30 per cent of their gross foreign exchange receipts to the Central Bank. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Paraguay administers the exchange controls and supervises the foreign exchange transactions carried out by authorized commercial banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Spain under a bilateral pay- ments agreement with that country must be made through a clearing account maintained in terms of U.S. dollars. Otherwise, there are no prescription of currency requirements. Payments between Par- aguay and Argentina, Chile, Mexico, and Peru may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Paraguay and the central banks concerned, within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few commodities are prohibited.1 All other imports are free of quantitative restric- 1 These include certain agricultural products, depending on the season, and certain petroleum products. tion and licensing. Imports of most commodities are subject to an advance deposit of 100 per cent of the f.o.b. value, which is retained for 120 days, or if the deposit is made after the date of shipment, 180 days, or for nonexempt commodities imported through the Spanish free zone in Paraguay, 90 days. Advance deposits are not required for gov- ernment imports, imports by diplomats and by certain international organizations, certain agri- cultural machinery from any source, Spanish agri- cultural and industrial machinery and implements imported through the Spanish free zone in Par- aguay, and imports from LAFTA countries of items included in the Paraguayan concession list (the National List). Furthermore, commodities that are exempt from surcharge generally are exempt also from advance deposit. Surcharges, calculated on the c.i.f. value, are payable on most imports even if no foreign exchange payment takes place. An import sur- charge of 32 per cent applies to most general imports from any source; however, for goods originating in LAFTA countries and included in the Paraguayan National List the rate ranges from 3 per cent to 30 per cent, and for certain other LAFTA goods (mainly Pharmaceuticals) in a special list the rate is 8 per cent. Petroleum prod- ucts are subject to a surcharge of 15 per cent. There is an additional surcharge of 5 per cent on imports from all sources of radios, record players, and their parts and accessories. Additional sur- charges of 1 per cent and % per cent, respec- tively, are levied on certain imports for the Hous- ing Institute and the Institute of Technology and Standards. These surcharges are collected by the banks at the time of delivery of the documents for customs clearance or when the import payment is made, whichever is earlier. The following are the prin- cipal exemptions from surcharge: wheat; crude oil; agricultural tractors; books and periodicals; imports for the Government, for religious organi- zations, for cooperatives, for diplomats, and for certain international organizations; Spanish agri- cultural and industrial machinery and implements imported through the Spanish free zone in Par- aguay; and imports from LAFTA countries of items included in the Paraguayan concession list. Imports of investment goods, of raw materials for 369 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY export industries, and of certain other raw mate- rials receive exemption on a case-by-case basis. In addition to the above surcharges, a tariff sur- charge is levied on certain imports by virtue of Law No. 1224/67, which implemented Decree- Law No. 451 of March 31, 1967. On goods that are not exempt, it ranges from 12 per cent to 24 per cent (from 8 per cent to 18 per cent for goods subject to LAFTA concessions) and is levied on the c.i.f. value, which is calculated as follows: the f.o.b. value plus 10 per cent for imports from neighboring countries and the f.o.b. value plus 20 per cent for imports from other countries. Exempt from this complementary import duty are public sector and diplomatic imports; raw materials and equipment for the pro- duction of goods that are subject to internal con- sumption taxes; imports under Capital Investment Law No. 246 or Industrial Benefits Law No. 202; and all imported goods taxed under the Internal Consumption Tax Law. Imports on credit for a term of more than six months require approval from the Central Bank. This approval is normally granted only for imports of machinery and vehicles other than private automobiles. Payments for Invisibles Authorized banks may sell exchange freely for specified current invisibles, provided that appro- priate documentation is submitted. They may grant allocations for travel purposes as follows, for each person each trip: the equivalent of US$150 for neighboring countries, including Uruguay; of US$300 for other Latin American countries; and of US$1,000 for all other countries. Applications for exchange for other invisibles or for unusually large amounts require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Travelers may take out any amount in foreign or domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports require licenses, in order to assure domestic supplies. The proceeds of exports must be collected within 180 days after comple- tion of shipping formalities, and the exchange sold to an authorized commercial bank; there are no legal sanctions for noncompliance with this requirement. For certain exports minimum sur- render prices (aforos) are established; these prices 370 are of an indicative character, and the full export proceeds should be surrendered. Producers of coffee are permitted to retain 50 per cent of their export proceeds; such retained proceeds may only be used to meet dividend and interest payments due to nonresidents and to pay for imports of machinery and equipment for the producers' own use. Most exports are subject to taxes payable in guaranies of 7% per cent, 5 per cent, or 2% per cent of the f.o.b. value; these taxes are collected by the banks. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no surrender requirements in respect of the exchange proceeds from invisibles. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign or domestic currency. Capital All inward and outward transfers must be recorded by the authorized banks. Authorized banks may freely grant exchange for contractual capital transfers, subject to production of appro- priate documentation. Other outward transfers of capital require the prior approval of the Central Bank; in some instances, the Central Bank may stipulate that payments be made in installments. Decree-Law No. 246 of February 25, 1955, the Capital Investment Law, empowers the Govern- ment to grant special tax, customs, and advance deposit concessions to proposed private foreign investments, provided that these are registered; the terms may vary from case to case. The Central Bank has established a limit on the net utilization of short-term foreign credit lines by the National Development Bank and the commercial banks. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, in Paraguay or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require the prior approval of the Central Bank, which is seldom granted to residents other than the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1968 January 1. Law No. 1334 went into effect. It modified the import surcharges regime as follows. The surcharge on certain imports from LAFTA ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY countries was reduced to 8 per cent. The surcharge on petroleum derivatives from LAFTA countries was increased from 10 per cent to 15 per cent. For commodities imported from LAFTA countries and included in Paraguay's National List, the rates were maintained. The surcharge on imports from countries that are not members of LAFTA remained at 32 per cent. For those commodities from LAFTA countries that were neither entitled to the 8 per cent rate nor included in the National List, the surcharge was increased from 24 per cent to 32 per cent. Radios, record players, and their parts and accessories remained subject to an addi- tional surcharge of 5 per cent, the total surcharge payable being 37 per cent. The law also enumer- ated the exemptions from the import surcharge; these included all imports of wheat and crude petroleum. February 19. Law No. 1199 provided that all imports and exports of central and local govern- ment agencies had to be carried in ships of the Flota Mercante del Estado, provided that cargo space was available. August 19. An agreement was signed with Chile providing for free port facilities for Paraguay in Antofagasta. October 1. By v ir tue of Decree-Law No. 31000, imports of agricultural machinery financed by loans from the IDA or the IDE became exempt from payment of import surcharges, customs duties, and additional taxes. 371 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU Exchange Rate System On December 18, 1946, a par value for the Peruvian Sol was established by Peru with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. There is a dual exchange market with two fluctuating exchange rates, an exchange certificate market rate applying to all trade transactions and speci- fied nontrade transactions, including the principal capital movements, and a draft market rate for services and most other nontrade transactions. The foreign exchange requirements of the public sector are met entirely through the certificate mar- ket. Export proceeds must be converted into exchange certificates, which are valid for three days and are issued in U.S. dollars only. These exchange certificates are negotiable in the certifi- cate market and may be used to pay for imports and for certain nontrade transactions. All exchange transactions that do not qua l ify for the certificate market are permitted freely in the d ra ft market. All payments that are eligible for the purchase of exchange certificates may alternatively be made through the draft market. The banks are required to quote a single rate for buying and selling cer- tificates, but they may charge a commission of of 1 per cent on certificate sales. On Decem- ber 31, 1968 the certificate market rate was S/. 38.70 per US$1 and the draft market rate was S/. 44.08 buying, and S/. 44.54 selling, per US$1. Different effective rates result from the applica- tion of a surcharge and a stamp tax. Payments for most imports, when made at the certificate rate, are subject to a surcharge of 10 per cent. A stamp tax of 1 per cent is payable on most outward remittances; the principal exemption is for remit- tances in respect of foreign financing of imports and exports. Peru accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. l/4 Administration of Control Export licenses and exchange licenses permit- ting the use of certificates for nontrade transac- tions are issued by the Ministry of Finance. Exchange certificates are issued by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru. Exchange certificate trans- 372 actions are carried out through commercial banks; draft market transactions are conducted freely through banks and various other dealers, or directly between sellers and buyers. For statistical purposes, banks and exchange dealers must inform the Superintendency of Banks of all purchases and sales of exchange. All imports and foreign borrowing by the public sector require the approval of the Council of External Transactions for the Public Sector. Prescription of Currency All export proceeds must be received in con- vertible currencies; exchange certificates at present are only issued in U.S. dollars, but the central bank is empowered to issue certificates denomi- nated in any convertible currency. No other pre- scription of currency requirements are in force. Payments between Peru and Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, and Paraguay may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru and the central banks concerned, within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Cuba are prohibited. The import of a number of consumer durable goods and other commodities considered nonessential is prohibited from any source. All other commodir ties may be imported freely without a license. Exchange certificates may be utilized for payment for imports through the commercial banks, which receive foreign currency against delivery of the certificates. The commercial banks must present evidence that the entire amount represented by the certificates will be used for the importation of merchandise. Imports under documentary letters of credit or on a documentary collection basis, but not open account imports (except those effected before October 9, 1967), may be paid with cer- tificates. The relative shipping documents and the bill of lading must be forwarded to a commercial bank and presented to the Central Reserve Bank for registration and validation. A maritime freight tax of 4 per cent of the ocean freight charges is levied on goods imported by sea other than cer- tain agricultural and medical products, books, and coins. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for Invisibles Authorization is required in order to pay for invisibles with certificates or at the certificate rate. The transactions in invisibles that are eligible for the certificate market include government pay- ments and payments by foreign companies in respect of the following: remittance of profits, head office expenses, remuneration of technicians hired abroad, and other contractual obligations, whether already contracted or to be contracted in the fu tu re. Exchange for payments that are not eligible for exchange certificates may be freely obtained in the d ra ft market. Air and sea pas- sages are subject to a 5 per cent stamp tax. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Cuba are prohibited. All exports are subject to license to assure the necessary sup- ply of export proceeds to the certificate market. Export proceeds must be received in U.S. dollars and must be surrendered within 5 days of receipt when exports are made against letter of credit or within 30 days of shipment in all other cases; for nontraditional exports, however, the 30-day period is calculated from the due date of the d ra ft or drafts corresponding to the export value. All exports other than agricultural products, fish meal, and fish oil are subject to payment of 10 per cent of the f.o.b. value, which is chargeable against fu tu re payments of profit tax; the requirement is to expire on March 31, 1969. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles are free of control and may be sold in the draft market. Capital In addition to government payments, certain capital payments on private account may be effected through the certificate market. The use of exchange certificates may be authorized for the amortization of foreign loans contracted by the private sector, provided that the foreign exchange proceeds of the loan have been surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank. Where such debt was con- tracted before October 9, 1967, certificate exchange may be allotted by the Central Reserve Bank only to public utility enterprises whose debt has been guaranteed by the State and to earners of foreign exchange. Interest payments on loans PERU for which amortization may be transferred through the certificate market may also be made at the certificate rate. All other capital payments may be effected freely through the d ra ft market, in which inward and outward capital transfers by residents and nonresidents may be effected without control. New foreign investments must be registered with the Ministry of Finance and Commerce to have access to the certificate market for profit remit- tance and capital repatriation and to enjoy tax incentives under Peru's promotional laws. Law No. 13270 of November 30, 1959, the Industrial Promotion Law, provides that the Executive may raise import duties on foreign products to encour- age and develop existing or new industries. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm, in Peru or abroad. Residents and nonresidents may freely import and export gold in any form. Imports of gold by the monetary authorities and by authorized industrial and pro- fessional users, and all exports of gold, are settled in the certificate market. Payment for all other purchases of gold abroad must be made through the draft market. Changes during 1968 January 5. Decree No. 2-H amended Decree No. 291-H of December 1, 1967. January 23. The use of exchange certificates for the servicing of debt contracted by the private sector before October 9, 1967 required approval by ministerial resolution after consultation with the Superintendency of Taxes. February 9. Decree No. 38 created a National Council for External Transactions of the Public Sector. Its principal task would be the screening of all public sector imports and the coordination and approval of all external borrowing by the public sector, including suppliers' credits. Such imports and borrowing were made subject to prior approval by the Council. February 11. Exports of coffee were exempted from the 10 per cent export tax. February 13. It was announced that applica- tions for permission to use certificates in making payment for open account imports contracted 373 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU before October 9, 1967 could not be submitted after February 23, 1968. February 26. The validity of exchange cer- tificates was reduced from five to three days. February 29. Decree No. 52 prohibited the sale of securities by foreign investment companies and foreign banks. March 1. Sales taxes of 10 per cent to 35 per cent were introduced on nonessential imported goods and on domestic goods with a high import content. March 1. Decree No. 53 prohibited for a period of three months the importation of a large number of consumer durable goods and other commodities considered nonessential. It also placed a minimum 12-year repayment period on new credit contracted by public entities other than that to cover the seasonal credit requirements of the State banks, and prohibited the granting of foreign exchange guarantees for domestic credit extended in local currency. April 1. Exports of cotton were exempted from the 10 per cent export tax. May 29. Decree No. 173 reduced the list of prohibited imports to about 90 tariff items of minor fiscal and balance of payments significance; the prohibition on the remaining items was extended through March 31, 1969. The same decree introduced a 15 per cent surtax to be levied on the c.i.f. value of all imports for which payment is made with exchange certificates, with the exception of a few specified essential com- modities. The tax would be collected by the Cen- tral Reserve Bank; 50 per cent of the proceeds would go to the Government and 50 per cent would be used to subsidize exports. June 24. Decree No. 202 introduced a new list of prohibited imports covering about 250 tariff items, which would be in force through March 31, 1969. It also created a 10 per cent surtax on the c.i.f. value of imports for which payment is made with exchange certificates, which would be reduced to 5 per cent on December 1, 1968 and eliminated by January 31, 1969. Basic foodstuffs, pharmaceutical products, telecom- munications equipment, and imports by the Cen- tral Government were exempt. The tax would be collected by the Central Reserve Bank at the time the import payment was authorized. Ninety per cent of the proceeds of the surtax would serve to finance popular food programs. June 24. Decree No. 206 prohibited payments with exchange certificates of interest in excess of 9 per cent a year on loans for which amortiza- tion was authorized through the certificate market. June 28. The stamp du ty of 1 per cent was by virtue of Decree No. 216 applied to all remit- tances of funds from Peru to other countries, including transfer of funds from branches, agen- cies, or representatives in Peru to their head offices abroad, whatever the document, proce- dure, or method used to effect these remittances. Most remittances in respect of foreign financing of imports and exports, however, were exempt. Previously, the du ty was not applicable to all methods of remittance. August 15. A new Organic Law for the Cen- tral Reserve Bank went into effect. It empowered the Bank to take all measures deemed necessary with respect to the issue and utilization of exchange certificates. September 13. Exports of all agricultural products were exempted from the 10 per cent export tax. November 15. A reciprocal credit agreement betv/een the central banks of Peru and Bolivia went into effect. November 26. Decree Law No. 17234 con- tinued indefinitely the surtax on import payments at 10 per cent. The Central Government budget would receive half of the proceeds up to Feb- ruary 1, 1969 and the full proceeds thereafter. 374 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.227864 gram of fine gold per Philippine Peso or F 3.90 = US$1. The offi- cial limits established by the Central Bank of the Philippines for its dealings with banks are F 3.8805 buying, and F 3.9195 selling, per US$1. Only authorized agent banks may purchase and sell foreign exchange. In spot transactions with their customers, authorized agent banks are per- mitted to quote m in imum and max imum buying rates of F 3.8610 and F 3.9195 per U.S. dollar, and minimum and maximum selling rates of F 3.8805 and F 3.9390 per U.S. dollar, respec- tively. Exchange rates for other authorized cur- rencies purchased by the Central Bank are based on the spot buying or selling rates in New York for the currency concerned at the close of the day prior to the actual purchase in Manila, and the Central Bank's current spot buying or selling rates for the U.S. dollar. Premiums and discounts on forward exchange transactions are, in princi- ple, left to the interplay of market forces, but the Central Bank engages in forward exchange trans- actions (up to 90 days) with authorized agent banks at the interbank spot rate with fixed premiums. Certain firms which before January 19, 1962 with the prior approval of the Monetary Board contracted loans or incurred deferred payments obligations for imports of capital equipment at a rate not exceeding F 3.20 per US$1 are allowed to liquidate these obligations by buying foreign exchange from authorized agent banks at the official rate of F 3.90 per US$1, with the Central Bank refunding the difference. Administration of Control Exchange regulations are administered by the Central Bank. The Central Bank issues circulars and memoranda to the authorized agent banks on the basis of policy decisions reached by the Monetary Board. Certain new foreign direct or portfolio investment in the Philippines requires the prior approval of the Board of Investments. Prescription of Currency The Philippines maintains a bilateral payments agreement with Indonesia, which at present is inactive; payments for imports covered by the trade agreement with that country are made directly between the two central banks. There are no prescription of currency requirements for out- going payments, but all exchange proceeds from exports must be obtained in Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Nether- lands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, or U.S. dollars. Most payments and transfers to Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Bank accounts denominated in pesos may be opened in the name of nonresidents, whether indi- vidual or corporate, without the prior approval of the Central Bank. They may be opened virtually without restriction, except in respect of arbitrage operations. Nonresident accounts are permitted to be credited only with the proceeds from inward remittances of foreign exchange or convertible foreign currencies and with peso income from, or peso proceeds of conversion of, properties (real or personal) located in the Philippines and belonging to nonresidents. Banks are prohibited from selling foreign exchange for pesos tendered by or on behalf of nonresidents in arbitrage opera- tions. Orders to pay against, or withdrawals from, nonresident accounts which would involve the remittance of foreign exchange for the purpose of capital transfers and/or transfers of earnings, profits, and dividends to nonresidents are per- mitted, provided that application forms and necessary supporting evidence as required are submitted. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of certain agricultural com- modities from any source are prohibited for pro- tective reasons. There are no other restrictions on imports, except imports of gold. Imports in excess of US$100 must be covered by letters of credit opened on or before the date of shipment, with the exception of commodities exempt from advance deposit and certain "no-dollar" imports (imports financed by importers' own foreign exchange or not involving payments from the Philippines). Imports from Indonesia must be covered by an irrevocable letter of credit in U.S. dollars. Advance 375 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES deposits in the form of cash margin deposits ("special time deposits")1 are required on the opening of import letters of credit, as follows: 25 per cent for essential producer goods; 50 per cent for essential consumer goods; 75 per cent for semi- essential producer goods; 100 per cent for semi- essential consumer and nonessential producer goods; 125 per cent for semiunclassified producer goods; 150 per cent for nonessential consumer goods and semiunclassified consumer goods; and 175 per cent for unclassified producer goods and unclassified consumer goods. Exempted from the cash margin deposit requirements are imports of raw materials by selected local industries, prime consumer goods under the essential consumer category, certain fa rm machinery and equip- ment, fungicides, insecticides, certain "no-dollar" imports, imports under U.S. Public Law 480, and imports of construction equipment by Philippine public works contractors to be used specifically for construction projects contracted by Philippine Government agencies under Law R.A. 374 (the Private Financing Law ). The same advance deposit requirements are applicable when imports are made on a documents against payments (D/P), documents against acceptance (D /A ), or open account basis. The deposits are collected by the banks when issuing release certificates and they are held for 120 days. Commodities that are exempted f r fcm cash margin deposit requirements may be financed by means of documents against payments or docu- ments against acceptance for a period not exceed- ing 180 days for producers or not exceeding 90 days for importers. Furthermore, imports of raw materials required by local industries also exempted from the cash margin deposits may be financed under an open account arrangement payable by demand draft (D /D ), mail transfer (M /T ), or telegraphic transfer (T /T) within 180 days after the issuance of the release certifi- cate by the authorized agent bank concerned. Banks may sell exchange to settle the resulting obligations, but their sales in any calendar year for this purpose must not exceed their total sales for these purposes during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1967, and the total of each bank's out- standing import letters of credit and customers' liability acceptances in connection with imports be limited to the level on October 12, 1968.2 Capital goods purchased under contracts dated June 26, 1967 or before may be imported with- out covering letters of credit whether the ship- ment had left the port of origin before that date or not. Before goods can be cleared through the cus- toms, the importer must present, as a rule, a release certificate issued by the Central Bank through an authorized agent bank to show that all customs duties, taxes, and other levies assessed by the Bureau of Customs that are payable upon importation of the merchandise have been col- lected by the authorized agent bank. Certain "no- dollar" imports are exempted from the release certificate requirement. Payments for Invisibles Payments for all invisibles other than for travel and education may be made freely. However, an application to purchase foreign exchange exceed- ing US$100 must be accompanied by a sworn statement concerning the purpose of such pur- chase and the bank selling the exchange must certify that the remittance is being made for the purpose stated in the application; for profit and dividend remittances, additional supporting docu- mentation must also be submitted to the bank selling the exchange. Exchange for travel abroad is made available as follows: ( 1) the initial travel allowance for travel to the United States, South America, Canada, Europe, and Africa is US$50 a day for each adult traveler, but not more than US$1,500 for a 30-day stay abroad; (2) for travel to Japan, the Middle East, Australia, New Zealand, Guam, and Okinawa, the basic allow- ance is US$50 a day for each adult traveler, but not more than US$500 for 10 days; and (3) for travel to Hong Kong, the Republic of China, and other Asian countries except Japan the basic allowance is US$30 a day for each adult traveler or US$210 for 7 days. The basic allowances for children under 18 are 50 per cent of the above. Where the traveler stays abroad for longer periods, he may make arrangements with his bank to remit to him, not earlier than upon the 1 The advance deposit extended to June 30, 1969. requirements have been 2 This ceiling has been extended until June 30, 1969. 376 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution expiration of the specified period, an additional US$50 or US$30 a day, as appropriate, provided that the additional amount does not exceed US$1,500 for every additional 30-day period for travel to countries in the first group, not more than US$500 for every additional 10-day period for the second group, and not more than US$210 for every additional 7-day period for countries in the third group. These additional allowances may be remitted any number of times. In addition to the travel allowance, persons traveling abroad for health reasons are allowed foreign exchange to cover the estimated cost of hospitalization and medical bills, upon submission of satisfactory evi- dence of such expenses. The following limits apply to exchange for educational expenses abroad, remittable in quarterly installments: for studies in the United States, South America, Canada, Eu- rope, Africa, the Middle East, Australia, New Zealand, and Japan, a maximum of US$400 a month for living and other out-of-school expenses, plus the cost of tuition, books, laboratory fees, and other school charges; for studies in Hong Kong, the Republic of China, and other Asian countries except Japan, a maximum of US$150 a month plus tuition, etc., is allowed. Any scholar- ship allowances are deducted from these amounts. No person may take out or export from the Philippines foreign currency or any other foreign exchange except as otherwise authorized by the Central Bank. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of foreign currency that they had pre- viously brought in and declared, minus any amounts converted into pesos. Resident and non- resident travelers may take out F 100 in domestic currency, of which not more than F 5 must con- sist of domestic silver and/or nickel coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Otherwise, exports are generally not restricted, but they are regulated to ensure that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered to an autho- rized agent of the Central Bank. Authorized agent banks issue the necessary export permits upon receipt of the exporter's report of foreign sales; export permits for copra and coconut oil, how- ever, are only issued by the Central Bank. Exports of certain strategic materials and items deemed PHILIPPINES essential for industrialization and economic devel- opment are prohibited. As a general rule, no commodity may be exported unless it is covered by a d ra ft drawn in one of the prescribed currencies and unless col- lection of the proceeds will be undertaken by an authorized agent bank; however, payment by means of telegraphic transfer, check, or mail transfer may be allowed. Payments for exports on a cash, collection, or consignment basis must be arranged through an authorized agent bank, which must specifically contract with the exporter to buy the exchange proceeds. Proceeds from exports must be received in the prescribed cur- rencies within 60 days from the date of shipment (or within such period as may be established in special cases) and surrendered within 10 days. An irrevocable letter of credit is required for exports of scrap metals, copra, and coconut oil, and for all exports to Guam, Hong Kong, the Republic of China, and Japan. Exports of perish- able commodities to Hong Kong require prepay- ment. Exports to Indonesia must be invoiced in U.S. dollars. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold within three days by the recipient to an authorized agent bank. Philippine nationals employed abroad are permitted to open U.S. dollar deposit accounts with the Central Bank, in which they may retain any U.S. dollars they remit to the Philippines. To be eligible for credit to such accounts, the earn- ings must be transferred through Philippine diplo- matic or consular establishments. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency and up to F 100 in domestic currency, of which not more than F 50 must consist of Philippine coins. Capital There are no restrictions on inward capital movements, but any foreign exchange received must be surrendered within three days, unless it constitutes an inward remittance by a Philippine national abroad for deposit at the Central Bank. In the case of sales of foreign exchange for out- ward capital transfers (repatriation of invest- ments of nonresident investors, overseas invest- ments of Philippine residents, or transfers of assets of prospective emigrants), authorized agent 377 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES banks must request the applicant to substantiate by means of documentary evidence (such as income tax returns, deeds of sale, and financial statements) that the remittance sought is in fact intended for the purpose stated in the applica- tion, and that in the case of remittances by non- residents of investment income or liquidation pro- ceeds of investments, foreign exchange for the original purchase of the securities was remitted to the Philippines and sold to an authorized agent bank; furthermore, while the banks have fu ll free- dom in dealing with applications for foreign exchange, the Central Bank audits most outward capital transfers ex post. Also, all applicants for foreign exchange exceeding US$100 must sub- mit a sworn statement concerning the purpose of the payment, and the export of domestic bank- notes and coins is restricted. Commercial banks or other institutions may extend or receive credit abroad to finance bona fide foreign transactions. The Central Bank con- trols and limits the use of stand-by letters of credit when the facilities are to be used to meet financ- ing requirements in Philippine currency, rather than for trade or production purposes. Under the Investment Incentives Act of 1967, all investors and enterprises are guaranteed the right to repatriate their investments, and to remit earnings thereon and sums needed to meet pay- ments of principal and interest on foreign loans; they are also guaranteed freedom from expropria- tion and requisition. There are d ifferent arrange- ments for "pioneer investments" and "preferred investments"; the former are granted certain incentives over and above those given to "pre- ferred investments." Normally, enterprises owned or controlled by foreigners are permitted to operate only in "pio- neer areas of investment," and normally at least 60 per cent of the voting capital stock of regis- tered enterprises in "preferred areas of invest- ment" (ma in ly investments related to the exploita- tion of export-oriented natural resources and the manufac tur ing of import substitutes) must be owned by Philippine nationals. By virtue of the Laurel-Langley Agreement, U.S. citizens, corpo- rations, and associations are given the same status for this purpose as Philippine citizens until July 1974. Under the Foreign Investment Law of 1968, 378 new enterprises in which investment by non- Filipinos exceeds 30 per cent and which are not covered by the Investment Incentives Act must obtain authority f rom the Board of Investments in order to engage in any economic activity in the Philippines. If purchases of shares of common stock by foreign nationals would reduce Philip- pine ownership in a firm to less than 30 per cent, permission from the Board must first be obtained. Gold Producers of gold must sell their entire output to the Central Bank at the equivalent of US$35 an ounce to be eligible for assistance under the Gold Industry Assistance Act, irrespective of whether this gold is a by-product or the principal or only product of their operations. Gold that is a by-product may either be sold to the Central Bank or in the free market, while gold that is either a firm's only product or its principal prod- uct must be sold to the Central Bank. With this exception, residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in .the Philippines. Resi- dents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to pur- chase abroad gold in any form other than jewelry. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1968 January 26. A National Export Coordinating Center was created. It was to facilitate the pro- cessing of export permits, licenses, etc. March 1. The requirement for all banks to provide fu ll cover for their foreign exchange lia- bilities was lifted. Agent banks were instead required to limit their actual foreign exchange liabilities to the amount of these liabilities on June 26, 1967. March 26. Commercial banks were required to limit their foreign exchange liabilities to the amount of these liabilities on June 26, 1967 or to US$1.5 million, whichever was higher. April 16. Resolution No. 560 of the Mone- tary Board provided new criteria for the classi- fication of commodities for import control pur- poses. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution May 1. The ban on trade with communist countries was lifted. Such trade was henceforth permitted on a selective, case-by-case basis under a private arrangement between chambers of com- merce. May 4. The Basic Rules and Regulations were published of the Board of Investments that was established in accordance with the Invest- ment Incentives Act of 1967. In June, a schedule was issued listing the pioneer and preferred industries. May 28. The permission to authorized agent banks under which they could, prior to the appli- cant's departure, sell foreign exchange for travel purposes up to US$50 for each traveler a trip for each day of stay outside the Philippines, subject to a maximum of US$1,500, was restricted to sales for travel to the United States, South America, Canada, Europe, and Africa. An initial travel allowance of US$50 a day, up to US$500 for ten days, was henceforth granted for travel to Japan, the Middle East, Australia, New Zealand, Guam, and Okinawa. For travel to Hong Kong, the Republic of China, and other Asian countries except Japan, the initial travel allowance was set at US$30 a day, up to US$210 for seven days. Children under 18 were allowed 50 per cent of these amounts. Additional travel allowances for bona fide travel beyond the periods mentioned were authorized to be remitted to the traveler at his destination abroad, through the bank that made the original sale of travel exchange, after the expiration of the periods mentioned. The sale of the initial travel funds could only be made against presentation of airline or ship tickets and had to be marked in the traveler's passport. Refunds of unused transportation fares could only be made in pesos. May 28. Restrictions were imposed on the remittance of funds to cover educational expenses. The following amounts were remittable in quar- terly installments: for studies in the United States, South America, Canada, Europe, Africa, the Middle East, Australia, New Zealand, and Japan, US$400 a month for living and other out-of- school expenses, plus the cost of tuition, books, laboratory fees and other school charges; for studies in Hong Kong, the Republic of China, and other Asian countries except Japan, US$150 a month for living and other out-of-school PHILIPPINES expenses, plus the cost of tuition, etc. Any schol- arship allowances were deducted from these amounts. June 11. Central Bank Circular No. 260 was issued. The advance deposit requirements for the opening of import letters of credit were raised by 25 percentage points for all covered import cate- gories and were made applicable also to imports on a documents against payment basis, a docu- ments against acceptance basis, and under open account arrangements. The new requirements were 50 per cent for essential consumer goods and essential producer goods, 75 per cent for semiessential producer goods, 100 per cent for semiessential consumer goods and nonessential producer goods, and 175 per cent for nonessen- tial consumer goods and unclassified items. Exempt from the advance deposit requirements were specified essential consumer goods, certain essential producer goods, and specified raw mate- rials. The deposits were to be blocked for 120 days, and authorized agent banks were required to maintain a 100 per cent reserve against them with the Central Bank. Previously, deposits were released as import payments were made. The advance deposit requirements would remain in force until December 31, 1968. These arrangements for "special time deposits" replaced the gentlemen's agreement concerning cash mar- gin deposit requirements that was signed in June 1967 between the Central Bank and the Bankers' Association of the Philippines. July. Gold produced as a by-product rather than as a mining company's main product could henceforth be sold on the free market. August 20. The authorized agent banks were prohibited from issuing letters of credit for imports from Rhodesia; from selling foreign exchange for remittances to Rhodesia, except for pensions, for the provision of news material, and for the supply of foodstuffs for humanitarian reasons; and from issuing permits for the export to Rhodesia of petroleum products, arms, ammu- nition of all types, military aircraft, military vehicles, and equipment and materials for the manufacture and maintenance of arms and ammunition in Rhodesia. September 25. The Central Bank increased the ceiling on the foreign exchange liabilities of 379 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES commercial banks by US$1 million for each bank for the period to December 31, 1968. The maxi- mum size of the peso-dollar swap arrangements extended by the Central Bank to the commercial banks was raised from US$1 million to US$2 million for each bank also until the end of 1968. September 25. A Dollar Remittance Plan for Philippine dollar earners overseas went into effect. Dollars remitted by Philippine physical persons abroad could be deposited at the National Bank. These deposits would be maintained as U.S. dol- lar savings deposits or as one-year certificates of deposit, in U.S. dollars, the interest in either case being payable in U.S. dollars. Demand deposits in U.S. dollars could also be made. Any conver- sions into pesos were made at F 3.90 per US$1. All withdrawals in dollars for use in payment of legitimate needs or for travel funds of depositors and dependents were exempt from the execution of affidavits and sworn statements by remitters holding such dollar accounts. September 30. A Foreign Investment Law (RA 5455) went into force. Under this law, new enterprises in which investment by non-Philippine nationals exceeds 30 per cent must obtain author- ity from the Board of Investments in order to engage in any economic activity in the Philippines. If purchases of shares of common stock by for- eigners would reduce Philippine ownership in a firm to less than 30 per cent, permission from the Board must first be obtained. (Certain implement- ing regulations went into effect on February 3, 1969.) September 30. The Import Quota Act (RA 5452) went into force; this empowered the President to impose import quotas to increase import duties, and to suspend or modify trade concessions granted to other countries. October 8. Unless specifically exempted, imports valued at over US$100 and not covered by letter of credit became subject to the standard advance deposit requirements. October 12. Banks were required by the Cen- tral Bank not to increase the total of outstanding import letters of credit and customers' liability acceptances in connection with imports (includ- ing import bills and trust receipts originating from import bills) beyond the level existing on Octo- ber 12, 1968; this ceiling became fu l ly effective on November 12 and remained in force until the end of December 1968 (and beyond that da te ). November 20. Central Bank Circular No. 265 of November 20 established the following. Unless otherwise authorized by the Central Bank, all foreign exchange acquired from invisibles by any person or entity residing and/or located in the Philippines must be sold by the recipient within three days from the date of receipt to authorized agents of the Central Bank. Henceforth, only authorized agents of the Central Bank could pur- chase or sell foreign exchange. No foreign exchange could be taken out or exported except as authorized by the Central Bank. Except as permitted by the Central Bank, the import and export of Philippine coins and notes and of drafts, checks, money orders, and/or other bills of exchange in Philippine pesos drawn on banks operating in the Philippines (including import or export through the mail) was prohibited. Trav- elers, however, could bring in and take out up to F 100 in Philippine notes and coins, of which not more than P 5 could consist of domestic silver and/or nickel coins for outward travel or F 50 could consist of all types of domestic coins for inward travel. Resident travelers could not take out foreign currency in excess of US$100 or its equivalent, and this only as part of an approved travel allowance. November 26. Central Bank Circular No. 266 was issued to implement the provisions of Cir- cular No. 265. Incoming and outgoing residents as well as visitors had to complete currency declaration forms. Returning residents had to sur- render within three days of arrival any foreign exchange they brought in. October 12. By Central Bank Circular No. 264, the advance deposit requirement against imports of essential producer goods was reduced from 50 per cent to 40 per cent. From Novem- ber 12, it would be fu r ther reduced to 30 per cent, and from December 12, to 25 per cent. December 3. The advance deposit require- ments were again revised. The requirement of a 175 per cent deposit for nonessential consumer goods and unclassified goods was replaced by more detailed provisions as follows: a 125 per cent deposit became applicable to semiunclassi- 380 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution fied producer goods, a 150 per cent deposit was required for nonessential consumer goods and semiunclassified consumer goods, and a 175 per cent deposit for unclassified producer goods and , .£ t , unclassified consumer goods. December 16. Resolution No. 2244 of the Monetary Board designated the unclassified import commodities as either unclassified pro- ducer goods or unclassified consumer goods. ^ _ , December 31. The advance deposit require- _ . j j >, , ,10 ments for imports were extended to February 28, 1969. PHILIPPINES 381 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0309103 gram of fine gold per Portuguese Escudo or Esc 28.75 = US$1. Exchange rates for the U.S. dollar, the pound sterling, and the other quoted currencies1 are based on the relative exchange rates in the inter- national exchange markets. Neither the Bank of Portugal nor the commercial banks charge buying or selling commissions. For settlements with coun- tries with which Portugal has bilateral payments agreements,2 the U.S. dollar rate applies to trans- actions in "agreement dollars" (for Greece, Israel, and Turkey) and the pound sterling rate to transactions in "agreement pounds sterling" (for Po land), while fixed exchange rates apply to other agreement currencies. Authorized banks may deal in foreign exchange with the Bank of Portugal. They are also normally allowed to deal in foreign exchange with banks abroad at the rates prevailing in the Portuguese foreign exchange market, but they are not expected to solicit such transactions in foreign markets. They are not allowed to buy and sell foreign exchange among themselves, or to enter into arbitrage operations in foreign markets. In dealing with their customers, the authorized banks buy and sell foreign exchange in convertible cur- rencies for their own account; their purchases and sales of bilateral agreement currencies are made for the account of the Bank of Portugal. Purchases and sales of unquoted currencies can only be made through an authorized bank acting on a commission basis. Banks are required to obtain the prior approval of the Bank of Portugal to accept deposits in foreign currencies from resi- dents or nonresidents and to obtain short-term credits abroad. The banks may use their foreign exchange holdings for all authorized purposes, but the Ministry of Finance may set limits on the foreign exchange resources of the commercial banks, and in certain circumstances may require 1 The quoted currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 Portugal has bilateral payments agreements with Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Israel, and Poland. Settlements with Greece and Turkey are also channeled through special accounts. 382 that foreign exchange assets be sold to the Bank of Portugal. Capital held abroad by residents in the form of foreign exchange that is not subject to surren- der requirements may be transferred to other resi- dents through authorized commercial banks at official rates of exchange. Decree-Law No. 44699 of 1963 forbids direct transactions in foreign exchange between residents who are private per- sons. There is no forward exchange market in opera- tion in Portugal, but authorized banks may enter into forward transactions with individual custom- ers. The exchange rates for these transactions may not be higher than the spot buying rate or lower than the spot selling rate of the same date, but the size of the commission is not prescribed. The commercial banks may cover open positions by entering into swap transactions with the Bank of Portugal. The escudos issued in the overseas territories are at par with the metropolitan escudo. The par- ity for the Macao pataca is Esc 4.75 = pataca 1. Interterritorial payments are subject to transfer charges which may not exceed 1 per cent; this limit is % of 1 per cent for payments resulting from foreign transactions expressed in foreign cur- rencies and settled through another overseas ter- ritory or through metropolitan Portugal. Exchange Control Territory Portugal and the Portuguese overseas territories constitute a single exchange control territory, the Portuguese Monetary Area. The exchange con- trol regulations of Portugal are for the most part applied uniformly throughout the Area, and cur- rent payments between the various territories are made freely through multilateral clearing accounts. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Min- istry of Finance and the Bank of Portugal, with the assistance of the commercial banks authorized for this purpose. Trade control policy is formulated by the Com- mission of Economic Coordination in the Minis- try of Economy. A Directorate-General of Com- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution merce in the Ministry of Economy administers the trade control; import and export licenses ("bulletins") are issued by the Foreign Trade Division, operating within the office of the Direc- torate-General, or by other executive departments duly authorized. Licenses for imports of certain goods included in the negative list are issued by economic coordination departments associated with the Ministry of Economy. Practically all for- eign trade transactions are subject to registration with the Ministry of Economy. Prescription of Currency Transactions with countries with which Portu- gal does not have bilateral payments agreements may be settled in any of the currencies quoted by the Bank of Portugal (see footnote 1) or, for Portuguese exports, in escudos to the debit of a Demand Foreign Account in Escudos (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Transactions with countries with which Portugal has bilateral payments agreements (see footnote 2) are settled through clearing accounts maintained in U.S. dol- lars (for Greece, Israel, and Turkey), in pounds sterling (for Poland), or in escudos or the cur- rency of the partner country (for Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, and Hungary). In exceptional cases, payments to nonresidents may be made by crediting escudos to a nonresident account, sub- ject to prior approval by the Bank of Portugal. Nonresident Accounts The main categories of nonresident accounts are as follows: "Foreign Accounts in Escudos" in the name of persons resident or- domiciled in countries with which Portugal does not have bilateral payments agreements or arrangements: These accounts are divided into (1) "Time Foreign Accounts in Escudos," for which the opening, debiting, and crediting are subject to special advance authoriza- tion of the Bank of Portugal, and (2) "Demand Foreign Accounts in Escudos," which may be opened, debited, and credited without prior autho- rization of the Bank of Portugal for (a) payments for transactions expressed in escudos and duly authorized in that currency, for imports and exports of goods, services, and capital between PORTUGAL metropolitan Portugal and foreign countries,3 (b) purchases or sales of escudos against the foreign currencies quoted by the Bank of Portugal,4 and (c) transfers between these accounts. For all other debit and credit operations, authorization of the Bank of Portugal is required. The granting of credit in the form of overdrafts on the above accounts for periods of one year or less requires the authorization of the Bank of Por- tugal. For periods longer than one year, authoriza- tion is required from the Inspectorate-General of Credit and Insurance with the agreement of the Bank of Portugal. "Foreign Accounts in Escudos" in the name of persons resident or domiciled in countries with which Portugal has bilateral payments agreements or arrangements: These accounts are opened, deb- ited, and credited according to instructions issued by the Bank of Portugal. There are also provisions for resident and non- resident accounts in foreign currencies, but these accounts are of limited importance. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain products are prohibited, mainly for sanitary reasons, for the protection of public order and morals, and for the prevention of trade frauds. Any physical or juridical entity may be an importer; importers must be certified by the Corporation of Commerce and must pay income taxes regularly. Most imports consigned from and originating in the Portuguese overseas territories are free of restriction. A registration procedure is applied, for payment control purposes, and certificates of ori- gin are required to ensure that goods originating in foreign countries do not enter Portugal via over- seas territories. Certain products, such as cotton, some oilseed products, and a few other raw mate- rials may be imported freely from the Portuguese overseas territories (after local industrial demand for these raw materials has been satisfied) but are 3 However, the intent of the monetary directives in force is to exclude the escudo from payments to non- residents, and the Bank of Portugal authorizes such payments in escudos only in exceptional cases. 4 Sales of escudos are subject to the proviso that the commercial bank concerned my be required to confirm the nature of the transaction for which escudos are required. 383 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL subject to quantitative restrictions when imported from third countries. Special regulations are applied to sugar, imports from overseas territories being free of restrictions while imports from for- eign countries are authorized only if supplies from overseas territories are insufficient. Practically all imports from outside the Portu- guese Monetary Area are effected on the basis of "bulletins." For imports free of quantitative restriction, the bulletin serves a statistical purpose and enables the importer to obtain the necessary foreign exchange as specified in the bulletin. For imports subject to restriction, the bulletin is equiv- alent to an import license. The validity of the bulletin is normally 90 days. Payments beyond that period but within one year require the approval of the Bank of Portugal; beyond one year the authorization of the Inspectorate-General of Credit and Insurance is required. Goods not on the so-called negative list may be imported freely from most countries that are mem- bers of the GATT. The negative list includes cer- tain foodstuffs, other agricultural products, certain natural or manufactured raw materials, some tex- tile fibers, and a small number of finished prod- ucts, including motor vehicles; the items on the negative list are subject to quantitative restrictions for protective reasons. The GATT liberalization does not apply to Ghana, India, and Nigeria; imports from these GATT members of goods liber- alized if imported from other GATT countries are subject to individual authorization, which is granted only in exceptional cases. Furthermore, a somewhat more extensive negative list applies to Japan. Nonliberalized imports from countries that are GATT members are admitted either under global or bilateral quotas or under individual authoriza- tion. There are bilateral quotas for specified agri- cultural imports from certain EFTA countries. Imports of nonliberalized industrial products are free of quantitative restriction when originating in EFTA countries; special legislation provides that automobiles must be assembled in Portugal, but imports of completely knocked-down vehicles from EFTA countries are free of restrictions. All imports from countries that are not members of the GATT are based on individual authoriza- tions; imports from Eastern European countries are generally licensed restrictively or in accor- dance with bilateral agreements. 384 Payments for Invisibles Payments to the Portuguese overseas territories for current invisibles may be made freely through authorized banks. Such payments to foreign coun- tries are also free of quantitative restrictions, but are subject to procedures which differ in respect of the amounts of foreign exchange that autho- rized banks may grant freely for the various trans- actions. For payments to countries with which Portugal does not have bilateral payments agreements, the authorized banks may grant any amount of for- eign exchange for expenditures incidental to trade; up to the equivalent of Esc 50,000 per capita and per annum for tourism; and up to the equivalent of Esc 100,000 for most transactions in invisibles not mentioned above, including income on im- ported capital. For payments to countries with which Portugal has bilateral payments agree- ments, the authorized banks may effect freely payments for invisibles listed in the respective payments agreements. Application must be made to the Bank of Portugal for exchange for payments of items not referred to above and for payments in excess of the above-mentioned limits. Travelers may take out freely domestic and foreign banknotes and foreign coins for their travel expenses; exports of notes and coins for other purposes require authorization from the Bank of Portugal. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports are effected on the basis of "bulletins" (similar to the import bulletins). Export bulletins are issued freely, with few excep- tions; the primary purpose of this procedure is to enforce the prescription of currency and surrender regulations. The export of a few domestically pro- duced goods is restricted, mainly to assure ade- quate supplies to domestic industries and to avoid depletion of local resources. Baggage and exports and re-exports of merchandise whose value does not exceed Esc 2,500 do not require a bulletin as long as they are not expressly excluded from this exemption. Exporters are required to sell to an authorized bank, within the period stipulated in the export bulletin, the total amount of the export proceeds, in the foreign currency indicated in the bulletin, if ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution payment is not received from a Demand Foreign Account in Escudos. The Bank of Portugal may, however, authorize the deduction of commission expenses abroad, and freight, insurance, or other charges pertaining to exports, from the total amount of the export proceeds subject to surren- der. Proceeds from Invisibles Portuguese residents may receive freely pay- ments for invisibles from residents of countries with which Portugal does not have bilateral pay- ments agreements. Also, payments from residents of countries with which Portugal does have pay- ments agreements may be received freely for invis- ibles listed in the payments agreements. Receipts on account of all other invisibles require authori- zation by the Bank of Portugal, which is granted without restriction, once the proposed operation proves to be real and licit. Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in freely domestic and for- eign banknotes and coins for their travel expenses; imports of notes and coins for other purposes require authorization from the Bank of Portugal. Authorized banks are not permitted to receive or to pay out foreign banknotes or coins for the settlement of operations expressed in foreign cur- rencies. Capital Capital transfers between Portugal and its over- seas territories are subject to prior authorization by the Inspectorate-General of Credit and Insur- ance; approval is also required from the authorities of the territory concerned. When the amount exceeds Esc 50 million, the approval of the Min- ister of Finance and of the Minister of Overseas Territories is required. For most types of transac- tion, however, authorization to export from Por- tugal (and to import into the overseas territory) is granted freely whenever the transaction is found to be a bona fide one. All capital movements between Portugal and other countries (excluding credits with a term of one year or less, which require approval by the Bank of Portugal) are subject to the prior autho- rization of the Inspectorate-General of Credit and Insurance; and for transactions exceeding Esc 10 million, the approval of the Minister of Finance is PORTUGAL also required. Moreover, before granting an autho- rization, the Inspectorate-General may request the advice of the Bank of Portugal on the mone- tary and foreign exchange aspects of the transac- tion involved. Foreign investments in Portugal from residents of countries that are members of or associated with the OECD, EFTA, IMF, or IBRD are authorized freely if they involve activities that are of recognized interest for Portugal's development, that is, unless a speculative operation in real estate is involved. Certain activities, however, are reserved for enterprises having a majority of Por- tuguese capital; these include defense, public utilities, and fishing. The transfer abroad of the fu ll proceeds from the liquidation of foreign invest- ment which originated in a bona fide inward capi- tal movement from OECD, EFTA, IMF, or IBRD countries is authorized without restriction. Foreign credits from OECD countries with a maturity of up to five years are liberalized when a Portuguese resident participates in the under- lying commercial or service transaction. The repayment of foreign credits and loans that origi- nated in a bona fide inward capital movement is always authorized. Investments outside the Portuguese Monetary Area by residents of Portugal are authorized only when the capital involved is not considered indis- pensable for the national economic development. In practice, authorization is granted only for small investments and for the improvement or enlarge- ment of existing Portuguese investments. Residents of Portugal may reinvest in securities, within time limits fixed by the authorities, the proceeds of the sale of other securities in an OECD country. They may also transfer such pro- ceeds to other residents, provided that the pro- ceeds do not belong to a Portuguese credit institu- tion and that their owner is not under an obligation to surrender them to such an institution. Arbitrage operations in foreign securities car- ried out by residents of Portugal involving two other OECD countries or between Portugal and an OECD country are authorized freely; but if a transfer of foreign exchange to or from Portugal is involved, a prior authorization is required. Transfers by Portuguese nationals or by for- eigners resident in Portugal who emigrate to any 385 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL other OECD country are authorized up to Esc 100,000 annually for a family. Transfers by foreign nationals who have been resident in Por- tugal are authorized up to Esc 500,000 a year for a family when they return to their country of origin. Transfers on account of bequests, inher- itances, and dowries to other OECD countries are authorized up to Esc 500,000. For bequests, inheritances, and dowries exceeding this amount, annual transfers up to Esc 500,000 are authorized. In cases of bequests and inheritances, the legator or the deceased person must have been a resi- dent of Portugal and the legatee or heir a resident of an OECD country at the time of the death. Gifts to relatives resident in OECD countries are authorized when their value does not exceed Esc 28,750 a year. Transfers to OECD countries in respect of life insurance policies due from Portuguese insurers are authorized in favor of the beneficiary when their value does not exceed Esc 500,000 for a capital sum, a reduced value, or an annuity cer- tain, and Esc 50,000 for a surrender value. Capital movements and transfers of assets not enumerated in the preceding paragraphs or involv- ing countries other than those mentioned above are authorized on the merits of each case. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold in any form in Portugal, and there is a free gold market in Lisbon. The purchase or sale of coined or uncoined gold, when carried out between metro- politan Portugal and foreign countries, is subject to special advance authorization from the Bank of Portugal whenever a resident of metropolitan Por- tugal takes part in the transaction or has an inter- est in it. The import, export, or re-export of coined or uncoined gold is also subject to special advance authorization from the Bank of Portugal. Licens- ing of imports is relatively liberal. There is a free market for gold in Macao, in which nonresidents who are not resident in the Portuguese Monetary Area may freely trade among themselves in bars, leaves, and coins; settlement must take place in patacas or U.S. dollars. In Macao, the Govern- 386 ment sets over-all limits for imports of gold in any form other than jewelry; authority to carry out such imports is delegated to a concessionary enterprise for a two-year period. Imports and exports of gold, unless made by or on behalf of the Macao monetary authorities, require licenses issued by the Commissioner for Finance. Changes during 1968 February 21. Decree-Law No. 48253 was pub- lished. It permitted the Minister of Finance to authorize temporary imports of machinery, equip- ment, and spare parts to be incorporated into other machinery or equipment for export to the overseas provinces or to foreign countries, pro- vided that the goods cannot be satisfactorily pro- duced in Portugal. February 21. A large number of raw materials (including raw cotton, jute, wood and paper paste, synthetic and artificial fibers, minerals and metals, and chemical products) and capital goods for use in certain specified industries (such as chemicals and base metals, textiles, shoes and clothing, and fruit and vegetable processing) were granted reductions (of 50 per cent) in, or exemptions from, customs duties. February 23. Decree-Law No. 48261 was pub- lished. In order to act as an importer or exporter, the prior authorization of the Corporation of Commerce was required. The authorization was granted through the issuance of a certificate. March 14. Conditions were established under which the Fund for the Development of Exports would be allowed to provide guarantees in respect of transactions relating to the prefinancing of exports. June 3. Increased annual quotas were an- nounced for imports of passenger cars from EFTA countries. August 22. A revised and uniform negative list of commodities whose importation was sub- ject to quantitative restrictions went into effect in all overseas provinces. Not all provinces, how- ever, applied the list fully. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.00888671 gram of fine gold per Rwanda Franc or RF 100 = US$1. The National Bank of Rwanda (the central bank) has established official limits for banks based on par values for the U.S. dollar and for other convert- ible currencies; those for the U.S. dollar are RF 99.25 buying and RF 100.75 selling. The authorized banks' rates may fluctuate freely be- tween these limits. The National Bank maintains official quotations within these limits for the U.S. dollar and certain other currencies;1 the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were RF 99.50 and RF 100.50, respectively, on Decem- ber 31, 1968. There is a free market for transac- tions in foreign banknotes in which the authorized banks' middle rates are not permitted to deviate from par by more than 15 per cent; banks may not import or export banknotes. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions and foreign trade is vested in the National Bank; authority to carry out some of these transactions is delegated to authorized banks. Exchange policy and foreign trade policy are determined by the General Foreign Exchange and Licensing Com- mittee, which comprises the Minister of Finance, the Governor of the National Bank, and five other members. Prescription of Currency Outgoing payments may be made in any cur- rency; receipts must be obtained in one of the currencies quoted and specified by the National B a n k1. Most payments to Rhodesia are pro- hibited. All foreign payments must be made by bank transfer. 1 These are listed as Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Nether- lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Tanzania shillings, Uganda shillings, and U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments A few imports, such as narcotics, are prohib- ited from all sources for reasons of public policy. Most imports from Portugal2 and Rhodesia are prohibited. All imports except baggage and house- hold effects of travelers and merchandise valued up to RF 20,000 require licenses; these are issued freely and serve statistical purposes only. Before orders are placed, applications for import licenses for all other goods must be submitted to the National Bank through an authorized bank on a form entitled Import License and Payments Authorization (Modele / ). The approval of an import license application constitutes an authori- zation also to obtain foreign exchange. An open general license permits the importation of certain petroleum products and butane gas by specified companies. The National Bank grants global import licenses for other commodities and for specified amounts to individual firms in order to ensure their continuous operation. Licenses are examined at the National Bank only to avoid cap- ital exports through overinvoicing. Except as stated above, there are no restrictions as to cur- rency of payment or permitted origin or place of shipment. Import licenses must be presented to the customs officials when the goods are cleared through customs. The number and date of expira- tion must be entered on the customs clearance form, called the Consumption Declaration, a copy of which is then sent to the National Bank by the customs office. Payment for imports in principle cannot be made prior to the arrival of the goods in Rwanda and must be made within 30 days after arrival. Importers of automobiles must lodge a deposit or provide a banking guarantee covering the import payment. Payments for Invisibles The prior approval of the National Bank is required for all payments for invisibles; such approval is normally given in all cases where no illegal outflow of capital seems to be involved. 2 On March 8, 1969 the Na t ional Bank issued a com- mun ica t ion concerning the presidential order of Feb rua ry 1, 1964 by which po l i t ical and economic sanc t ions were introduced against Portugal. 387 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA Foreign exchange is sold by the National Bank, through the authorized banks, for transport, insur- ance, and other expenses connected with imports and exports; for transfers of the salaries or wages after income tax of foreign nationals employed in Rwanda under contract; for transfers of the net earned income of foreign nationals who are self- employed or are engaged in a profession or estab- lished as independent traders; and for salaries of foreigners traveling abroad on leave. Net profits and dividends due to nonresidents may be remitted abroad in full, subject to the right of the National Bank to prescribe their transfer in installments. Nonresidents may transfer their net income from rents (after deduction of taxes and a provision of 20 per cent for maintenance), and residents of foreign nationality may remit two thirds of such net income; the National Bank, however, may limit the amounts so transferable. With permission from the National Bank, resi- dents may purchase tickets for travel abroad in Rwanda francs. Purchases of foreign exchange for travel purposes are authorized on an ad hoc basis. Remittances for payments for certain other invis- ibles may also be authorized on an ad hoc basis. Travelers may take out domestic banknotes up to RF 5,000. Residents require authorization by the National Bank to take out foreign banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount in foreign banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of oil and oil products to Rhodesia are prohibited. All exports, except trade samples, bag- gage and household effects of travelers, and mer- chandise valued at less than RF 20,000, are sub- ject to a prior declaration entitled Declaration of Collection of Foreign Exchange (Modele E). Declarations for all exports must be presented to the National Bank through an authorized bank, for certification. A Declaration is valid for a period of three months, but extensions may be granted by the National Bank, which also reserves the right to determine the conditions for certification. For exports to Burundi, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda pay- ments must be collected not later than 30 days after the goods have left the country; for exports to all other countries, this period is 120 days. All exchange proceeds from exports must be surren- dered to an authorized bank within 8 days from their collection. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles of RF 5,000 or more must be surrendered to the authorized bank within 8 days from their collection. All claims must be collected within 30 days from the date on which they become payable. Travelers may bring in up to RF 5,000 in domestic banknotes and any amount in foreign banknotes. Capital All outward transfers of capital require the prior approval of the National Bank. Such approval is rarely given unless the transfer relates to a foreign investment in Rwanda that is covered by the Investment Law of May 4,1964. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Rwanda. Imports and exports of gold require licenses and are normally made only by the monetary authorities. Changes during 1968 February 20. All export declarations, including those for coffee, required the visa of the National Bank. October 24. The system of global licenses was extended to include general traders. 388 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.197482 gram of fine gold per Saudi Arabian Riyal or SRls 4.50 = US$1. The Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency sells U.S. dollars to banks at the par value rate, and this serves as the basis for exchange quotations in the market. The Monetary Agency also sells sterling to banks at the appropriate cross rate. All settle- ments with Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited; there are no other restrictions on for- eign payments. Saudi Arabia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from March 22, 1961. Prescription of Currency The use of the currencies of Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa is prohibited. No other prescrip- tion of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required, and exchange for payments abroad may be obtained freely. All imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, and no control is exercised over export proceeds. All exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa and the re-export of certain imported items benefiting from government subsidy are prohibited. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted, except that payments must not be made to, or received from, Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents, but payments must not be made to, or received from, Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa. The Foreign Capital Investment Law (Royal Decree No. 35 of February 24, 1964) provides for specified benefits to be extended to approved foreign investments in Saudi Arabia. Gold The monetary authorities and all other resi- dents, including private persons, may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, without a license and without payment of any customs duty or tax, import and export gold in any form. Transactions involving Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Changes during 1968 June 7. Royal Decree No. 5/M was issued con- taining a revised customs tar iff. Import duties on certain machinery and a number of food items and durable and nondurable consumer goods were lowered, while those on industrial raw materials were abolished. The decree also granted authority to the Council of Ministers to amend import duties upon the joint recommendation of the Minister of Finance and National Economy and the Minister of Commerce and Industry. August 23. A comprehensive boycott of Rho- desia was announced. September 20. A comprehensive boycott of South Africa was announced. September 23. The government subsidy on imported wheat and rice was reduced to 12% per cent and that on imported meat to 7% per cent. 389 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL * Exchange System No par value for the currency of Senegal has been established with the Fund. The un it of currency is the CFA Franc, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.2 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de TAfrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Senegal's exchange control measures do not apply to ( 1) France and its Overseas Depart- ments and Territories (except the French Terri- tory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; (2) the other member countries of the West African Monetary Union (Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta); and (3) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, Congo (Brazzaville), Gabon, the Malagasy Republic, and Ma l i). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Senegal itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ex- ternal Finance Division in the Ministry of Finance, which also supervises borrowing abroad, the issu- ing, advertising, or sale of foreign securities in Senegal, and inward and outward direct invest- ment. Much of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to author- ized banks. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the intermediary of the banks and the Postal Administration, any infor- 1 In view of changes that took place ear ly in 1969 (see note at the end of this s u r v e y ), this survey presents the position on February 28, 1969. 2 The CFA f ranc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de I 'A f r ique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the com- mon currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mau r i tan ia, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 390 mation necessary to compile the balance of pay- ments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Min- istry of Commerce, except those for gold, which are granted by the Ministry of Finance. Import certificates for liberalized commodities are made out by the importer himself. The Senegalese Agri- cultural Marketing Agency (Office de commer- cialisation agricole du Senegal—OCAS) has a monopoly over exports of groundnuts and imports of white rice and has authority to import certain other essential foodstuffs. Prescription of Currency Senegal is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO main- tains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France (and its Over- seas Departments and Territories, except that of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Opera- tions Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements with Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited.3 Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports of Portuguese, Rhodesian, and South African origin and/or provenance are prohibited. 3 There are inoperative paymen ts agreements with Guinea and Mali. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution The import of a number of goods is prohibited from any source. The import from any source of a number of other commodities is subject to individual licensing. Imports from countries in the French Franc Area other than Guinea or Mali are generally free of license and quantitative restriction; some goods, although free from import license, require prior authorization by the Minister of Commerce. Imports of virtually all goods from EEC countries and imports of some goods from OECD countries are free of quantitative restric- tions; such liberalized imports require only an import certificate made out by the importer him- self. A joint French-Senegalese Committee estab- lishes minimum amounts for imports of goods from the French Franc Area. There is an annual program with global quotas for imports from all non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area. The import program is put into effect through individual licenses, which are required for most commodities. Licenses are issued only to authorized traders and to industrial and agri- cultural producers. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the com- modities have already been imported. Payments for Invisibles All payments to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are sub- ject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account coun- tries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 100,000 a year for each person (CFAF 50,000 for children under t e n ); any SENEGAL foreign exchange remaining after return to Sene- gal must be surrendered. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 100,000 a person a trip. The transfer of the fu ll net salary of a foreigner working in Sene- gal is permitted upon presentation of the appro- priate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 10,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry, or up to the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 if they have made no declaration on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. With a few exceptions (e.g., gold, diamonds, t u n n y ), exports to countries in the French Franc Area are free of license. Most exports to other countries require licenses, mainly in order to assure adequate supplies for the domestic needs of Senegal and to prevent certain re-exports. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Operations Account country must be surrendered. All export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles w i th France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due f rom residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected, and surrendered, if received in for- eign currency, within two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank- notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or the bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and 391 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area; residents bringing in foreign banknotes must sell them to an authorized bank within eight days. Capital All settlements between Senegal and Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Capi- tal movements between Senegal and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restric- ted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, offering for sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Senegal; these controls relate to the transactions themselves not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Sene- gal, the control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, the other member countries of the West African Monetary Union, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Foreign direct investments in Senegal4 and Senegalese direct investments ab road5 must be declared to the Minister of Finance when such investments are being made, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvest- ment of undistributed profits. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declara- tion, during which he may request the postpone- ment of the projects submitted to him. Both the making and the liquidating of direct investments, 4 Including those made by companies in Senegal that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Senegal of foreign companies. 5 Including investments made through the inter- mediary of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Senegal and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Senegal. 392 whether these are Senegalese investments abroad or foreign investments in Senegal, must be reported to the Minister of Finance within 20 days fol- lowing each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a com- pany or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issue or offering for sale of foreign securi- ties in Senegal requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, as do issues by Senegalese companies. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Senegalese Gov- ernment and ( 2) shares similar to securities whose issue, offering, or sale in Senegal has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in Senegal, or by branches or subsidiaries in Senegal of juridical persons whose registered office is broad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either, between Senegal and countries abroad or between foreign countries in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by banks; (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one bor- rower. The contracting of loans referred to under ( 4) that are free of authorization, and each repay- ment thereon, must be notified to the Minister of Finance within 20 days, unless the total outstand- ing amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 500,000 or less. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control autho- rization and is restricted. In accordance with the Investment Code of March 22, 1962, as amended on May 19, 1965, the purpose of which is to encourage domestic and foreign private investment in projects which ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution conform to Senegal's Four-Year Development Plan, an investor may sign a special found ing agreement (convention d'etablissement) with the Government by which he receives certain legal, financial, and other assurances in return for his commitment to carry out a certain program. A convention d'etablissement is extended only to domestic and foreign investors who propose a minimum investment over three years of CFAF 500 million. Such enterprises may be granted an assurance of unchanged taxation. Furthermore, firms proposing a program that either involves a m in imum investment of CFAF 40 million in three years, or creates at least 40 per- manent jobs for Senegalese workers and staff, may be accorded the designation of priority enter- prises; as such, they are eligible for considerable tax privileges. The corresponding minima for investments outside the Cap Vert region are CFAF 20 million invested or 20 jobs created. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Senegal. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO and ( 2) imports and exports of manu- factured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). By virtue of Ordinance No. 60-21 of October 1, 1960, brokers in precious metals require an autho- rization from the Minister of Finance to conduct their business. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Pur- chases abroad of nonmonetary gold are subject to a tax of 25 per cent. Changes during 1968 January 18. Decree No. 68-052 restricted imports of certain building materials and pro- hibited imports of certain others. June 1. With minor exceptions imports of all commodities originating in and shipped from EEC countries other than France were liberalized. June 2. Decree No. 68-619/MF, by sus- pending any contrary provisions of Decree No. 67-763/MF of June 30, 1967, re-established temporary exchange controls in relations with SENEGAL foreign countries. These were defined as all countries other than Senegal, France, Monaco, the other countries of the West African Monetary Union, and the other Operations Account coun- tries. Nonresident accounts in Senegal could not be credited with BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Repatriation and surrender requirements were introduced for proceeds from exports to foreign countries and proceeds from invisibles. June 8. Order No. 6999/MF-DFE listed the types of payments to foreign countries that could be made freely through an authorized bank, sub- ject to submission of documentary evidence. It also introduced an exchange allocation of the equivalent of up to CFAF 100,000 (foreign cur- rency and CFA banknotes combined) a person a trip for travel to foreign countries. The export by travelers to foreign countries of BCEAO bank- notes was limited to CFAF 100,000 a person a trip. September 12. Decree No. 68-9831/MF/DFE suspended Decree No. 68-619. September 14. Decree No. 68-992/MF/DFE revoked Decree No. 68-619 and the regulations issued for its implementation. This action abol- ished the temporary exchange controls. November 25. Decree No. 68-1229/PR/MF put into force again, with effect from November 26, the provisions of Decree No. 68-619 and all regulations issued for its implementation. This action re-established exchange control in relations with foreign countries. December 19. Decree No. 68-1324 prohibited, except with the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, all payments and transfers by residents to foreign countries, or within Senegal, in favor of a nonresident; all imports and exports of gold, means of payment, and securities; and all trans- actions and transfers leading to the constitution of assets abroad by a resident, or to the holding of foreign means of payment in Senegal by a resident. All claims on foreign countries or non- residents resulting from exports, earnings, or income had to be collected and, where appro- priate, surrendered. All import and export trans- actions relating to foreign countries had to be domiciled with authorized banks. All foreign secu- 393 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL rities, foreign exchange, and titles embodying claims on nonresidents had to be deposited with an authorized intermediary, whether they belonged to residents or nonresidents. Decree No. 68-1229 was revoked and the provisions of Decree No. 67-763 were suspended insofar as they were contrary to those of the new decree. NOTE. —The following changes took place early in 1969: January 10. Order No. 505/MF-DFEI listed the types of payments that could be made freely, through an authorized bank or the Postal Administration, to foreign countries, subject to the submission of documentary evidence. Nonresi- dent accounts in Senegal could no longer be cred- ited with BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. All amounts subject to sur- render had to be collected and, where appropriate, sold on the exchange market, within two months of the due date. Such payments could not be collected in banknotes or to the debit of a postal checking account in Senegal. The due date for export receipts had in principle to be within 120 days after arrival of the commodities. The order also contained definitions of "foreign countries," "residents," and "nonresidents." Foreign coun- tries were defined as on June 2, above. January 14. Notice No. 19 provided that resi- dent and nonresident travelers could not take out more than CFAF 10,000 in BCEAO banknotes, or the equivalent in French banknotes or bank- notes of an institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Imports by resident or nonresident travelers of BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and bank- notes of other Operations Account countries would be free, as would be imports of any means of payment denominated in a foreign currency; foreign currency brought in by residents had to be surrendered within eight days. Nonresident travelers could freely take out any foreign banknotes they had previously brought in, up to the equivalent of CFAF 25,000; any addi- tional amounts could be taken out only if they had been declared upon entry. An exchange allo- cation of the equivalent of CFAF 100,000 a per- 394 son a year (CFAF 50,000 for children under ten) was established for resident travelers. January 14. Circular No. 16 established approval procedures for payments to foreign countries. January 14. Circular No. 17 established pro- cedures for the domiciliation of export trans- actions and for controls over the repatriation of export proceeds. January 14. Circular No. 18 established pro- cedures for the domicilation of import trans- actions and for payments for imports. January 15. Decree No. 69-062/PR/MF submitted to control by the Minister of Finance all claims and liabilities in CFA francs and in any foreign currency that banks in Senegal had vis-a-vis foreign countries. This control could be delegated to the BCEAO (see also February 28, 1969, below). January 18. Order No. 871/MF required prior approval to send means of payment, titles to claims or property, and domestic or foreign securi- ties to a foreign country through the mail or by parcel post. The BCEAO and the authorized banks were exempt from this prior approval. February 24. Circular No. 33 established more detailed procedures for payments and transfers to foreign countries. Authorized banks were per- mitted to grant residents a special exchange allocation for business travel, equivalent to CFAF 5,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 100,000 a person a trip. February 24. Circular No. 34 established the terms on which foreign exchange could be pur- chased forward. This was only allowed for import payments; the facility was limited to specified commodities, either for one month or for three months. February 28. Order No. 2757/MF-DFEI appointed five commercial banks and the Postal Administration as authorized banks, the latter only for payments to foreign countries that had received the prior approval of the External Finance Division. February 28. The control over the banks' posi- tion vis-a-vis foreign countries in CFA francs and foreign currencies was delegated to the BCEAO by Order No. 2756/MF-DFEI. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.06641 gram of fine gold per Leone or Le 1 = US$1.20. The Bank of Sierra Leone stands ready in transactions with commer- cial banks to buy and sell leones in exchange for sterling at the rate of Le 1 = <£ stg. 0 10s. Od., subject to a maximum commission of 1 per cent on either side. The authorized banks in Sierra Leone base their rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar and the pound sterling on the cur- rent London market rates. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is made by the Minis- try of Finance. The day-to-day administration of exchange control is carried out by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Authorized commercial banks are permitted to sell exchange for permitted imports and, in small amounts, for traveling expenses. The Bank of Sierra Leone has power to direct pay- ments into Blocked Accounts. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Prescription of Currency Sierra Leone is a member of the Sterling Area, and settlements with other Sterling Area countries may be made freely in sterling or any other Ster- ling Area currency.1 Authorized payments to and receipts from Guinea must be channeled through a clearing account established under the terms of a bilateral payments agreement with that country. Authorized payments to other countries outside the Sterling Area (except Rhodesia), including payments for imports, may be made in leones to the credit of an External Account in Sierra Leone, in sterling to the credit of an External Account in the United Kingdom, or in any other non- Sterling Area currency except Rhodesian pounds. Receipts from other countries outside the Sterling Area (except Rhodesia) may be obtained in ster- ling from an External Account in the United King- dom, in leones from an External Account in Sierra 1 In this survey, the expression "Sterling Area" means the "Scheduled Territories" as defined in Sierra Leone's exchange control regulations, i.e., the Sterling Area except South Africa. Leone, or in any specified currency.2 Receipts from exports to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may also be obtained in any currency of a country outside the Sterling Area that is freely exchangeable for Sierra Leonean currency or sterling. Settlements with Rhodesia are subject to special regulations. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in leones held with authorized banks in Sierra Leone by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be designated External Accounts. These may be credited with authorized payments from residents of the Sterling Area, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of non-Sterling Area currencies other than Rhodesian pounds by nonresidents. They may be debited for any payments to residents of the Ster- ling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of non-Sterling Area currencies other than Rhodesian pounds. Rhodesian Accounts are accounts with banks in Sierra Leone con- ducted in the name of persons resident in Rho- desia. In addition, there are Blocked Accounts, to which are credited amounts that may not be remitted abroad and that are due to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. All imports from mainland China and countries in the Soviet area other than Czechoslovakia and the U.S.S.R. and certain com- modities 3 from any source require individual import licenses. With the exception of specified 2 The specified currencies are listed as Austrian schil- lings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 3 The list includes bacteriological products and other antibiotics, opium and cocaine derivatives and prepara- tions, medicines and pharmaceutical products, firearms, ammunition, explosives, unworked and partly worked silver, gold jewelry, meat, rice, seeds, flower bulbs, wheat flour, maslin flour, corn, raw tobacco, textiles, fiber suit- cases, umbrellas, plastic footwear, cement, and com- modities of the type exported by the Sierra Leone Pro- duce Marketing Board (e.g., live cattle, palm kernel, and palm oil). 395 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE textiles,4 all other imports from Czechoslovakia, the U.S.S.R., and most countries and territories outside mainland China and the Soviet area may be made freely under open general license.5 For- eign exchange is granted for all permitted imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of the Ster- ling Area may be made freely. Remittances to all other countries require approval. For travel to countries outside the Sterling Area, residents are entitled to a basic exchange allow- ance of Le 500 during a calendar year. Applica- tions for larger amounts are considered on an individual basis. In addition to the basic exchange allowance, travelers may take out, regardless of destination, the equivalent of Le 20 in any com- bination of leone notes and sterling notes and Le 50 in foreign currency notes other than Rho- desian pound notes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency banknotes, including sterling notes, declared by them when entering Sierra Leone. Exports and Export Proceeds Except for a few commodities to certain desti- nations, exports require individual export licenses. Exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. The proceeds in specified curren- cies (see footnote 2) of exports to countries out- 4 These specified textiles may be imported under open general license from all countries other than Poland, Hungary, Eastern Germany, Ruman ia, Czechoslovakia, ma in land China, Republic of China, North Korea, Republic of Korea, Hong Kong, Japan, India, Pakistan, Ceylon, and Singapore. Imports from the sources men- tioned are restricted. 5 The open general license applies to Argentina, Aus- tralia, Austria, Bahamas, Barbados, Belgium, Bermuda, Bolivia, Brazil, Burma, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Central Afr ican Republic, Ceylon, Chad, Chile, Colom- bia, Congo (Brazzav i l le), Democratic Republic of Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Finland, France, Gabon, Federal Republic of Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Hong Kong, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwa i t, Leeward Islands, Libya, Luxembourg, Malagasy Republic, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Morocco, Muscat and Oman, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Senegal, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Tanzania, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, U.S.S.R., Un i ted Kingdom, United States, Upper Volta, U ruguay, Venezuela, Wind- ward Islands, Yugoslavia, and Zambia. 396 side the Sterling Area must be sold to an autho- rized bank in Sierra Leone within six months from the date of export, unless permission to do other- wise is obtained. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 2) must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Subject to declaration upon entry, persons entering Sierra Leone may bring in any amount of domestic and foreign banknotes other than Guinean franc notes; the importation of the latter is prohibited. Capital There are no restrictions on the movement of capital between Sierra Leone and other Sterling Area countries. Investments by residents of coun- tries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be repatriated at any time, together with profits, provided that exchange control permission was obtained initially for the investment. The Sierra Leone Exchange Control Ordinance imposes control on the issue and transfer of secu- rities. The placing of an issue in Sierra Leone requires permission if the issuer is resident outside the Sterling Area. Permission must also be obtained before a security registered in Sierra Leone may be transferred to a person resident out- side the Sterling Area. Capital in respect of secu- rities registered in Sierra Leone may not be trans- ferred outside Sierra Leone without permission. Where permission has been given for securities registered in Sierra Leone to be sold to persons resident outside the Sterling Area, the company is usually required to obtain bank certification of the funds brought into Sierra Leone to ensure that permission will not be given later for taking out appreciably more than was brought in. The Devel- opment Ordinance of 1960 provides for income tax and customs duty concessions to foreign and domestic companies undertaking industrial or agri- cultural activities that are needed for the develop- ment of the country. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sierra Leone for numismatic pur- poses. Also, residents and nonresidents may freely buy, hold, sell, or export certain Sierra Leonean ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE gold coins issued for commemorative purposes. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities, gold producers, and autho- rized industrial users are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler are prohibited. Exports of gold in any form require licenses issued by the Chief Inspector of Mines; such licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities and local gold producers. Trav- elers, however, do not require a license to take out personal jewelry valued at up to Le 200. Exports of unworked gold are not subject to export tax. Changes during 1968 July 25. Additional sanction measures were taken against Rhodesia. 397 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.290299 gram of fine gold per Singapore Dollar or S$3.06122 = US$1. The Board of Commissioners of Currency, Singapore, stands ready to buy Singapore currency against sterling at S$7.4204 per <£ stg. 1 and to sell Singapore currency for sterling at S$7.2734 per <£ stg. 1; these rates include a commission of 1 cent per Singapore dollar which the Board charges per Singapore dollar issued or redeemed. Singapore, Malaysian, and Brunei currency notes and coins are freely interchangeable, at par and without charges, in the three countries concerned, at the commercial banks, and with the monetary authorities. (The old Malayan dollar, which will cease to be legal tender with effect from Jan- uary 16, 1969, is valued at S$0.8571.) No official buying and selling rates have been established for other currencies. The commercial banks quote mutually agreed rates for customers for most Sterling Area currencies and for specified curren- cies.1 The rates are calculated on the basis of quo- tations for Singapore dollars against sterling in the Singapore exchange market and the quotations for other currencies against sterling in the London exchange market. On December 31, 1968, the commercial banks' selling rate for the U.S. dollar was S$3.0800 per US$1. Authorized banks are permitted to deal forward in all currencies. Singapore accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as from November 9, 1968. Administration of Control The Exchange Control Division of the Ministry of Finance administers exchange control. Much of the authority for approving normal current pay- ments is delegated to commercial banks authorized for this purpose. The Trade Division of the Minis- try of Finance administers import and export controls. 1 These specified currencies are listed as Aus t r ian schil- lings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche m a r k, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 398 Prescription of Currency Singapore is a member of the Sterling Area and generally follows the prescription of currency arrangements and the sterling payments system of the United Kingdom. All payments to and from Sterling Area countries must be made in sterling or another Sterling Area currency. Certain payments to Hungary, Poland, and Rumania are made through special accounts. Payments to other coun- tries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia may be made either in Singapore dollars or another currency of the Sterling Area through an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Receipts from exports to other countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia must be obtained either in Singapore dollars or another currency of the Ster- ling Area through an External Account, or in any specified currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of residents of other countries in the Sterling Area are treated as resident accounts. The accounts of residents of countries outside the Sterling Area are treated as nonresident accounts and, unless specially restricted, are designated External Accounts. External Accounts may be credited with the proceeds of any non-Sterling, Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds sold to a bank in Singapore, with transfers of Singapore dollars or sterling from other External Accounts, and with funds eligible for transfer to countries outside the Sterling Area. Balances on External Accounts may be transferred to any other account, whether resident or nonresident, and may be con- verted into any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Accounts of residents of Rhodesia are designated Rhodesian Accounts. All debits and credits to such accounts require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are permitted freely under open general license or specific licenses, depending on the na ture and origin of the goods. A few imports are controlled for health or security reasons, and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution in such cases certain conditions must be satisfied before licenses are issued. Some imports are restricted for the protection of local industries. All imports originating in Rhodesia and South Africa or any territory administered by either are prohibited. Furthermore, the open general license does not apply to goods originating in Albania or Eastern Germany; for imports of certain com- modities, it does not apply to Japan. Permission to make payments for permitted imports is readily given, provided that the pre- scription of currency regulations are observed. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of the Ster- ling Area may be made freely. Payments related to commercial transactions and personal payments to other countries, except Rhodesia, are, in general, authorized, subject to the presentation of support- ing evidence. Authorized banks are permitted to approve applications for payments in respect of many categories of current invisibles, either with- out limitation or up to established limits. Applica- tions for payments in excess of these limits, or for purposes for which no delegation of authority has been granted, are approved by the Exchange Con- trol Department of the Ministry of Finance, pro- vided that no unauthorized capital outflow is involved. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange made available for travel abroad; there is a basic travel allowance equivalent to «£ stg. 500 a person a year for travel outside the Sterling Area and amounts in excess of this figure are normally allowed on application. Remit- tances to nonresidents of dividends, interest, and agreed profits on all bona fide investments are subject to exchange control approval, which nor- mally is given freely. Unless special permission is obtained, not more than S$500 in Singapore notes and the equivalent of «£ stg. 250 in foreign notes may be taken out of Singapore by resident trav- elers; there is, however, no restriction on the amount of Singapore notes that may be taken out of Singapore by travelers going direct to Brunei or Malaysia. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of foreign exchange declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports of certain textiles to specified destinations are sub- SINGAPORE ject to restrictive licensing. Most other commod- ities do not require an export license. Exchange control approval is required only for exports exceeding S$20,000 in value to countries outside the Sterling Area and for exports to any country of gold in any form; this requirement serves to ensure that the proceeds are obtained in accor- dance with the provisions of the Exchange Control Ordinance and are sold to an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles The exchange control requirements governing exchange receipts from invisibles are, in general, the same as those for export proceeds. Travelers coming direct from Brunei or Malaysia may bring in any amount in Singapore notes, and other trav- elers may bring in S$500; otherwise, permission is required for the import of Singapore notes. Per- mission is also required for the import of currency notes of India in excess of Rs 270 and of Indo- nesia in excess of Rp 3,000. No limitations are imposed on the import of currency notes of other countries. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers to and from other countries in the Sterling Area. Inward and outward capital transfers between Singapore and countries outside the Sterling Area require exchange control approval; such approval is freely granted for inward transfers, but the sub- sequent utilization of nonresident-owned funds in Singapore for investment purposes in most cases is subject to individual exchange control approval. Investment by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia in quoted stocks and bonds is freely permitted if made through a recognized stock exchange with funds from an External Account or transferred in a specified cur- rency; investment in stocks and bonds is subject to individual approval if it is to be made otherwise. Investments in new industrial and development projects that have been granted "pioneer status" are not restricted. However, to ensure that sub- scription monies are derived from an External Account, exchange control approval is required before shares are issued to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area. Subject to prior exchange control approval, proceeds from sales of securities 399 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE held in Singapore and of other investments may be freely repatriated by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area. Borrowing from local banks by nonresident-controlled companies is subject to controls. Investments by Singapore nationals in countries outside the Sterling Area may be made only upon approval of the exchange control authorities; this is given only when such investments are considered to serve the economic interest of the country. Gold Residents other than authorized dealers are not permitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than gold that has been manufactured into jewelry. Goldsmiths are, however, permitted to purchase certain quantities of gold from an authorized dealer for the manufacture of bona fide jewelry and ornaments. Permission for imports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler is not normally given except for imports by authorized dealers to meet the genuine requirements of goldsmiths for manufac tur ing jewelry and ornaments and for industrial uses. Imports of gold for the manufac- ture of jewelry for domestic sale are permitted by registered importers (i.e., goldsmiths) who hold an import license. Licenses are issued for imports of a specified quantity of gold each quarter through a tender system and the amount any successful ten- derer may bring in is subject to a maximum of 1,500 ounces a quarter. The registered importers tender for the import licenses each quarter and the premiums paid for the licenses accrue to the Gov- ernment. Authorized gold bullion dealers may also tender to import gold, subject to the same rules that are applicable to tendering and importing by goldsmiths; they may only sell the gold to gold- smiths who are unable or unwilling to import gold themselves. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a trav- eler are prohibited. There are no duties or taxes applicable to domestic or foreign gold transactions. Changes during 1968 During the year many commodities previously subject to special import license became import- able under open general license, and certain other commodities were shifted from the open general 400 license to special licensing. Only selected instances of such shifts are noted below. January 17. In order to ensure a regular supply of copra for local mills, merchants were permitted to export only 50 per cent of their imports (40 per cent for imports of less than 500 tons). February 8. The import of a number of com- modities, which previously had been classified as imports under quota restriction, was permitted under specific license; they included condensed and sweetened milk, tires and tubes for cars and bicycles, and refrigerators. March 1. A new Rice Stockpile Scheme went into effect. Only participants in the Scheme were granted import licenses for certain grades of rice. Each was assigned a specific quantity that must be kept in stock at all times. Provided that this requirement was fulfilled, there was no restriction on a participant's re-exports of rice. Thus, the sus- pension of exports and re-exports of rice was terminated. March 18. To facilitate transactions involv- ing Malaysian and Singapore currencies, the Central Bank of Malaysia opened an account in Singapore currency for its use in Singapore with the Accountant-General of Singapore, and the Accountant-General of Singapore opened a similar account in Malaysian currency with the Central Bank of Malaysia. The interchangeability of the two currencies, previously limited to notes and coins, was extended to banking balances. March 20. Banks and stockbrokers could, without reference to the exchange control author- ities, purchase securities registered in Singapore and quoted on the Singapore stock exchange on behalf of customers resident outside the Sterling Area, provided that the latter made payment with funds from an External Account. March 20. Imports of all bicycles were made subject to specific licensing. Quota restrictions were applied to certain sizes only. March 21. The limit on a bank's open position in foreign currency was raised from S$50,000 to S$ 150,000 for each currency and the limit on spot balances to be held against forward commitments was raised from S$50,000 to S$300,000 for each currency. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution April 2. A supplementary protocol to the trade agreement with the U.S.S.R. was signed and went into effect immediately. This provided that 50 per cent of the annual proceeds from the sale of Soviet goods to Singapore would be used by the U.S.S.R. for importing manu fac tu red goods from Singapore or for payment for the repairing, bunkering, and provisioning of Soviet vessels in Singapore. No special account was established for this purpose. April 24. A trade agreement was signed with Israel, providing for most-favored-nation treatment in matters of trade and shipping and for nondis- criminatory application of import restrictions. May 3. An agreement on border trade was signed with Indonesia. May 9. The Commonwealth preferential tariff on tobacco and tobacco manufac tures was removed. May 15. Imports of accumulators from sources other than Albania and Eastern Germany were exempted from individual licensing. May 17. Imports of many goods were made subject to specific licensing; they included razor blades, instant food beverages, margarine, milk powder, baby food, carbon paper, sewing machines, vacuum flasks, cigars, and foun ta in pens. May 30. A trade agreement was signed with the United Arab Republic, providing for most- favored-nation treatment in matters of trade and shipping and for nondiscriminatory application of import restrictions. June 3.. The import duty on assembled cars was raised from 10 per cent to 30 per cent. June 4. Singapore, Malaysia, and Brunei agreed that Malayan dollars would cease to be legal tender from January 16, 1969. June 5. Quota restrictions on imports of pas- senger cars were removed. June 29. Imports of caustic soda and certain other goods from sources other than Albania and Eastern Germany were freed from individual licensing. August 20. Permission was given by the Con- troller of Foreign Exchange to authorized banks to grant overdraft and other credit facilities as SINGAPORE follows: (a) to Singapore registered companies that are controlled by nonresidents of the Sterling Area and are engaged in manufacturing business, up to 150 per cent of their paid-up capital, pro- vided that the total credit facilities in favor of the companies do not exceed 150 per cent of their paid-up capital; and ( b) to Singapore registered companies that are controlled by nonresidents of the Sterling Area and are engaged in trading busi- ness, up to 50 per cent of their paid-up capital or "working funds" in Singapore, provided that the total credit facilities in favor of the companies do not exceed 50 per cent of either their paid-up capital or "working funds ." August 20. The 10 per cent withholding tax on interest accruing from bank deposits in Singapore to a nonresident individual was abolished. The withholding tax also was abolished where interest from bank deposits accrued to nonresident persons and firms that did not by themselves or in asso- ciation with others carry on a business in Singa- pore and did not have a permanent establishment in Singapore. September 5. Imports of motorcycles were made subject to specific licensing and quota restriction. An annual quota was established at 100 per cent of 1967 imports. Imports for re- export were not restricted. October 1. The system of quoting foreign cur- rencies in terms of local currency was amended. Quotations were expressed in decimals instead of fractions. October 18. Imports of instant food beverages, instant coffee, glucose, cigars, fountain pens, con- densed and sweetened milk, and electric refriger- ators were freed from specific licensing. October 19. Imports of tubes and pipes of iron or steel, stockings, socks, bicycles, and bicycle parts and accessories were freed from specific licensing and quota restriction. However, imports of those goods from Albania and Eastern Ger- many remained subject to specific licensing. November 9. Singapore accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. November 9. The Singapore Government and 401 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE the Singapore Development Bank took up 49 per cent of the first-issue shares in a new trading cor- poration, INTRACO, designed primarily to promote exports of domestic products. It started operations with effect from the same date. November 9. The Board of Commissioners of Currency, Singapore, raised its commission charges to 1 cent for every Singapore dollar issued or redeemed against sterling. Previously, the com- mission was 0.50225 cent. 402 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA * Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.124414 gram of fine gold per Somali Shilling or So. Sh. 7.14286 = US$1. The Somali National Bank carries out exchange trans- actions in "convertible" currencies 2 with autho- rized dealers at a single fixed rate for each cur- rency based on the par value or official rate of that currency and the par value of the Somali shilling. Settlements under bilateral payments agreements are made at rates corresponding to official par values. The exchange market in Somalia comprises the Somali National Bank and four commercial banks appointed as authorized exchange dealers in respect of transactions in foreign currencies. The banks charge a foreign exchange commission (including banking commis- sion) of 0.7 per cent for all exchange transactions other than purchases and sales of banknotes. Authorized exchange dealers generally do not conduct forward exchange transactions on behalf of the public, although this is not prohibited. Administration of Control The Ministry of Industry and Commerce is the principal government agency concerned with the implementation and operation of trade and exchange controls. It has been given the authority to regulate and control all foreign economic trans- actions and to establish policy for the licensing of imports, exports, and exchange. The Somali National Bank is authorized to determine the rates at which foreign currencies are to be negotiated, to establish a list of "convertible" currencies,2 and to appoint banks as authorized exchange dealers. It may also implement the trade and exchange controls on behalf of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. An Advisory Commission, consisting of nine members representing various ministries, the Somali National Bank, the Customs Authority, and the police, advises the Ministry of Industry 1 In view of certain changes that took place on Janua ry 1, 1969 (see note at the end of this su rvey ), this survey presents the position on that date. 2 These are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Djibouti francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, South Arabian dinars, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. and Commerce on policy questions relating to the regulation and control of foreign economic trans- actions. Licensing Committees, usually consisting of members representing the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, the Ministry of Finance, the Somali National Bank, the Customs Authority, and the police, decide on applications for licenses for imports and for transfers in respect of services. The Somali National Bank grants licenses for cer- tain routine invisibles. Transfers in respect of cap- ital are authorized by the Licensing Committee in Mogadiscio, unless they are governed by the pro- visions of Law No. 10 of February 18, 1960 on foreign investments, as extended and amended by Decree-Law No. 3 of March 3, 1968. Prescription of Currency Settlements with mainland China and the U.S.S.R. are made through bilateral clearing accounts denominated in pounds sterling. Settle- ments with the United Arab Republic must be made mostly in convertible currencies; 50 per cent of payments for imports from the United Arab Republic and all payments for invisibles to the United Arab Republic other than those for Suez Canal dues are debited to Somalia's creditor bal- ance resulting from the terminated payments agreement with that country; other payments nor- mally are channeled through special accounts denominated in sterling. Settlements with all other countries must be made in Somali shillings or in "convertible" currencies (see footnote 2 ). Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in Somali shillings or in "convertible" currencies may be opened with authorized exchange dealers by Somali nationals abroad on diplomatic service; Somali nationals residing abroad and deriving income only from sources outside Somalia; foreign nationals and for- eign institutions enjoying diplomatic status in Somalia; foreign persons customarily resident abroad and companies whose head office is abroad, provided that they do not derive income (including export proceeds) from sources within Somalia; and by other physical or juridical per- sons individually authorized by the Somali National Bank to maintain a nonresident account. 403 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods originating in or shipped from Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. For reasons of public policy, the import of a few commodities from all sources may be prohibited and that of certain other items requires individual license. All other commodities may be imported freely. Individual licenses are required for 11 commodities or groups of com- modities, constituting approximately one third of total imports in value. Some of these commodities may be imported only from specified sources.3 All imports, whether subject to licensing or not, must be declared. If goods imported under license differ in weight, quantity, or value by more than 10 per cent from the specifications in the import license, a new import license must be obtained. All imports other than those made by the Govern- ment, diplomatic and consular agencies, and inter- national organizations are subject to a statistical and administrative tax of 10 per cent. Payments for imports are authorized by the Somali National Bank or an authorized exchange dealer on the basis of either an import license (where required) or a "notice of import of goods not subject to license" and other documentation relating to the import transaction (bills, bills of lading, shipping notices, etc.). Provided that the Somali National Bank or the authorized exchange dealer is satisfied that the transaction meets the legal requirements, permission to make payment for imports is granted to the applicant not later than the third business day following the receipt of the application or on such other subsequent day as may be specified by the applicant. The Somali National Bank or the authorized exchange dealer may also permit advance payments for imports, (i.e., payment for merchandise not actu- ally passed through customs at the time of pay- m en t ), provided that documentary evidence of actual shipment is produced. Authorized banks must require a cash deposit of at least 50 per cent when opening import letters of credit; exemp- tion from this requirement may be given for essen- tial imports. Special payments regulations apply to border trade in specified areas of Somalia; part of this trade is carried on by traders who do not operate through authorized banking institutions. Such traders are permitted to use the proceeds from their exports to a neighboring country for the import of goods from that country up to So. Sh. 10,000 a month for each person. Unused balances remaining from such transactions must be surrendered. Traders in border areas who operate through banking institutions may be allowed a revolving advance payment, without submitting documentation, up to So. Sh. 10,000 a month a person. The advance may be accumu- lated for three months and is reconstituted for the value of goods actually imported as shown by documentary evidence. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles are subject to licensing, mainly to prevent unauthorized capital movements; provided that balance of payments considerations permit, genuine requirements are generally met. Transfers of salaries, wages, gra- tuities, and allowances paid in Somalia to their for- eign personnel by enterprises registered under the Foreign Investment Law are normally allowed up to 50 per cent. The Somali National Bank may grant licenses for exchange for travel purposes up to specified limits. Applications for exchange for amounts exceeding those limits and for all other invisibles are considered on their merits by the Licensing Committees in Mogadiscio and Hargeisa. For tourist travel by residents, there is an allow- ance of the equivalent of So. Sh. 1,000 a person a year, which is applicable to all countries except Canada, Japan, and the United States; for these three countries, the allowance is So. Sh. 1,400 a person a year. Nonresident travelers may take out without authorization any foreign exchange which they brought in and up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali notes and coins. Resident travelers may take out without authorization So. Sh. 200 in Somali notes and coins and up to the equivalent of So. Sh. 200 in foreign banknotes and coins. A currency declara- tion is required by all persons leaving the country. 3 The permitted origin varies from commodity to com- modity; in most caseSj importation is permitted only from the United States, the U.S.S.R., or the United Arab Republic. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports to Israel, Portugal, Rho- desia, and South Africa are prohibited. The export 404 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of a few commodities to any destination may be prohibited for reasons of public policy. An export declaration is required for all commodities. Exports of bananas and ten other commodities or groups of commodities are subject to license; other exports may be made freely. Except in border trade (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above), all export proceeds must be repatriated, declared, and offered for sale to the Somali National Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer within five business days after their receipt. The Somali National Bank may exempt exporters from the surrender obligation in respect of their export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated, declared, and offered for sale to the Somali National Bank or to an authorized dealer within five business days after their receipt. The Somali National Bank may grant exemptions from the surrender requirement. Nonresidents may bring in freely with them any amount in foreign exchange and up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali banknotes and coins; they must make a currency declaration when entering the country. Resident travelers may bring in up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali banknotes and coins and are obliged, upon arrival, to declare and offer to surrender any foreign exchange or gold they bring in. Capital Capital transactions are subject to licensing unless they are authorized by the Foreign Invest- ment Law of February 1960 (as amended in March 1968). In accordance with the provisions of that law, foreign enterprises must be registered with the Ministry of Planning and Coordination. For "productive" enterprises (i.e., those that engage in irrigation, improvement of land, estab- lishment of factories, construction of aqueducts, and testing, analyzing, and drilling activities in connection with oil and mineral exploration), profits may be transferred abroad freely up to a limit of 15 per cent per annum of the capital invested; this transfer right is cumulative. Should profits in any one year be less than 15 per cent, the transfer right for the succeeding three years is correspondingly increased. The capital itself may be transferred abroad beginning five years SOMALIA after the date of registration. Profits resulting from other foreign investments may be transferred abroad up to a limit of 10 per cent per annum of the capital invested, and the capital itself may be transferred abroad over a m in imum period of three years, beginning seven years after the date of registration. Gold Residents may hold and acquire in Somalia, for numismatic purposes only, gold coins that are not legal tender in any country. Such coins and unworked gold may be traded in Somalia only against domestic currency, at fixed buying and selling rates established by the Somali National Bank on September 26, 1964. With these excep- tions, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jew- elry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require per- missions issued by the Somali National Bank; such permissions are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities and industrial users. Gold imported by jewelers must be melted down to a fineness of not more than 22 carats within one month. Changes during 1968 January 1. The exchange tax of 1.5 per cent applicable to most purchases of foreign exchange and the import tax of 1.5 per cent on imports for which no official foreign exchange had been granted (franco valuta imports) were abrogated. The statistical and administrative tax on imports was increased from 8 per cent to 10 per cent. January 21. Certain textiles, steel and iron products, and paper products for packing purposes were added to the list of commodities requiring individual import licenses. January 27. The restrictions on trade with Kenya were terminated. March 3. Decree Law No. 3 was published extending and modifying the Foreign Investment Law of February 1960. March 16. Sales and purchases of foreign exchange and gold were temporarily suspended. The suspension was terminated on March 18. 405 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA March 18. The authority granted to authorized exchange dealers for domestic trading in gold was withdrawn. April 16. Bona fide jewelers could at any time apply to the Somali National Bank for permission to make payments in respect of imports of unworked gold, provided that the gold would be melted down, within a month of importation, to a fineness of not more than 22 carats. July 15. The validity of certain licenses to import rice, grey sheeting, white shirting, and tea from sources other than specified areas was tem- porarily suspended. December 18. A facility was introduced for revolving advance payments to registered traders in border areas. NOTE.—The following changes took place early in 1969: January 1. The number of commodities subject to individual import licenses was reduced from 33 to 11. The import of some of the commodities was restricted to specified sources of supply, depending on the item concerned; the permitted sources were the United States, the U.S.S.R., and the United Arab Republic. The import licenses pending since July for rice, white shirting, and grey sheeting were declared null and void. The suspension of tea imports was terminated. January 1. A new customs tar iff, based on the Brussels nomenclature and including preferential duties on items produced in the EEC area, entered into effect. Import duties on a number of primary materials, agricultural equipment, essentials, and heavy oil, were reduced or abolished, and rates of import du ty were standardized in accordance with the type of product and the degree of processing. Export duties on bananas, and the administrative and statistical fee of 5 per cent on exports, were eliminated. 406 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.24414 grams of fine gold per South African Rand or R 1 = US$1.40. Exchange rates are based on the fixed rates for sterling against rand (R 171.2140 buying, and R 172.0715 selling, per £100) and the London market rates for sterling against other currencies. Subject to certain limitations, authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange opera- tions among themselves and with overseas banks. The rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1968, were US$1.3935 buying, and US$1.3860 selling, per R 1. Exchange Control Territory For purposes of control over transactions in securities, residents of Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland are regarded as nonresidents. Other- wise, there are virtually no exchange or trade restrictions between the Republic of South Africa, South-West Africa, Botswana, Lesotho, and Swazi- land, and these territories are regarded as form- ing, with the Republic of South Africa, a single exchange control territory. Administration of Control Import and export licenses are issued by the Director of Imports and Exports acting on behalf of the Secretary for Commerce. Exchange licens- ing is the responsibility of the Treasury, which has delegated this authority to the South African Reserve Bank; in turn, the Reserve Bank has delegated to the commercial banks much of its licensing power. Appropriate exchange for licensed imports is made available by the authorized deal- ers upon presentation of suitable documentary evidence. Prescription of Currency South Africa is a member of the Sterling Area, and settlements with residents of countries in the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency. Settlements with residents of other coun- tries except Rhodesia may be made in sterling or rand to or from an External Account or in any specified currency,1 or, for outgoing payments only, in any other non-Sterling Area currency. Settlements with Rhodesia are subject to special regulations. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts are the accounts of resi- dents of countries outside South Africa, South- West Africa, Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland (the Blocked Accounts of residents of the last three territories are not nonresident accounts— see section on Exchange Control Territory, above). They are divided into four categories: Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts, External Accounts, Rhodesian Accounts, and Blocked Accounts. Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts are held by residents of other Sterling Area countries. They may be credited with all authorized payments by South African residents to Sterling Area countries; with transfers from other Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts; and with the proceeds from sales to an authorized dealer in South Africa of pounds sterling or the currency of any other country in the Sterling Area (excluding South Africa). They may be debited for payments for exports to coun- tries in the Sterling Area and other payments due by residents of other countries in the Sterling Area to South African residents; for payments to resi- dents of other countries in the Sterling Area for any purpose; for transfers to Rhodesian Accounts (provided that the transaction has been approved in the Sterling Area country concerned) and to other Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts in South Africa; for purchases of any Sterling Area currency; and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in South Africa. Rhodesian Accounts are held by residents of Rhodesia. They may be credited with all autho- rized payments by South African residents; with 1 In the South African exchange control regulations, specified currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Bel- gian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Nether- lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 407 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA transfers from Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts, provided that the transaction has been approved in the Sterling Area country concerned; with transfers from External Accounts in South Africa; with transfers from other Rhodesian Accounts; and with the proceeds from the sale to an authorized dealer in South Africa of Rhodesian currency, any specified currency (see footnote 1), or the currency of any country in the Sterling Area other than South Africa, provided that the transaction has been approved in the Sterling Area country concerned. They may be debited for payments for exports to Rhodesia and other payments due by Rhodesian residents to South African residents; for transfers to other Rhodesian Accounts in South Africa for any purpose; for purchases of Rhodesian currency in South Africa; and for with- drawals by the account holder while he is tempo- rarily resident in South Africa. External Accounts are held by residents of countries other than Rhodesia outside the Sterling Area. They may be credited with all authorized payments by South African residents to such coun- tries outside the Sterling Area; with transfers from other External Accounts in South Africa and from External Accounts in the United Kingdom or other countries in the Sterling Area (provided that the transaction has been approved in the Sterling Area country concerned); and with the proceeds from sales to an authorized dealer in South Africa of specified currencies (see footnote 1). They may be debited for payments to South African residents and residents of other countries in the Sterling Area for any purpose; for transfers to Rhodesian Accounts or to other External Accounts in South Africa or in any other country in the Sterling Area; for purchases of any non-sterling currency; and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in South Africa. Blocked Accounts represent mainly the pro- ceeds from sales of South African securities by a nonresident to a resident. Such proceeds may not be transferred from South Africa or to another Blocked Account in South Africa, but may be retained on deposit or reinvested in securities which are quoted locally; such securities may be exported and sold abroad. If invested in Govern- ment, Municipal, or Public Utility Stocks, the proceeds on redemption at maturity are freely transferable to the nonresident owner, provided that he had held the securities for a continuous 408 period of at least five years to redemption. Blocked rand may also be used to subscribe to a special issue, made available by the Government to non- residents only, of five-year transferable bonds offered by tender on a discount basis and repay- able in foreign currencies applicable to the domi- cile of the holder. Prior to the creation of this facility on June 11, 1964, blocked rand could be used to subscribe to a special issue made available to nonresidents only, of three-year nonnegotiable, nontransferable bonds (called nonresident bonds) bearing interest at 3% per cent and repayable (in three annual installments from the date of subscription) in foreign currencies applicable to the domicile of the holder. In special cases, blocked rand may also be used for direct invest- ment in manufacturing enterprises. Emigrants' assets that exceed the permissible transferable amount, and the proceeds of South African secu- rities held by immigrants prior to their arrival in South Africa or acquired abroad within three years of their arrival, are also blocked, but favor- able consideration is given to the release of such immigrants' funds (see section on Capital, below). Imports and Import Payments All importers of goods requiring import licenses must be registered with the Director of Imports and Exports. Most licenses allow the importation of a range of commodities, but they are, in general, to be used for goods of the same type previously brought in by the importer. Import licenses are valid for imports from any country. Imports free of license include (1) all goods imported from Botswana, Lesotho, or Swaziland, and (2) all goods imported from Rhodesia, Malawi, and Zam- bia that were grown, produced, or manufactured in those countries. The Import Control Regulations for 1968, as amended during the year, distinguished between the following categories: (1) Goods on the free list, i.e., those that could be imported without import license. The list included tea, raw wool, various materials for the clothing industry in South Africa, newspapers, books, periodicals, certain stationery items, petrol, oils, lubricants, scientific and laboratory equip- ment, and X-ray apparatus and film. (2) Goods that required import permits for which no specific annual quotas were fixed for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution individual importers. This list included capital plant and equipment and raw materials. A distinction was made between two categories: goods required by manufacturers for use or processing in their own factories, and goods imported by merchants for resale to industry. Permits for raw materials were granted on a basis of six months' stock at the current rate of consumption to manufacturers who imported such goods for their own use. For capital plant and equipment, permits were granted on a basis of essentiality, due regard being taken of domestic availability determined in the light of price, quality, and delivery. To merchants import- ing these goods for resale, permits for plant and equipment with an f.o.b. price not exceeding R 1,000 per single unit and for raw materials were issued within the limits of individual alloca- tions. For plant and equipment with an f.o.b. price for each individual item of more than R 1,000 and less than R 50,000, permits were generally issued freely. (3) Motor vehicles and CKD (completely knocked down) materials for motor vehicles. Manufactured cars were not subject to quotas and permits to import them were freely available to private individuals for their own use, with the following exception: for vehicles with an f.o.b. price not exceeding R 1,900 the permit was freely issued only if the vehicle had been used by the applicant for not less than two months outside South Africa and provided that it had been regis- tered in the name of the applicant during that period. Permits for CKD material for motor vehi- cles were granted as follows: (a) for light and heavy commercial vehicles, on the basis of nine months' stock; (b) for locally manufactured pas- senger vehicles (i.e., vehicles for which an accept- able local content program had been submitted) — the local content required was between 45 and 55 per cent, on the basis of full requirements; and (c) for locally assembled passenger vehicles, on a restricted basis—additional import facilities, how- ever, could be earned for these vehicles by under- taking to increase local content. (4) Goods that required import permits and for which annual quotas were granted to individual importers. For purposes of allocation, these goods were divided in three categories which corre- sponded to (a) general merchandise not made locally; (b) general merchandise made locally, and (c) other listed goods. The items in subdivi- SOUTH AFRICA sion (a) comprised a number of consumer goods, cameras and photographic materials, and cotton. Subdivision (b) included, in addition to general merchandise not under ( a ), textile piece goods imported by merchants and a number of other items not included elsewhere. Subdivision (c) included some consumer goods, a few capital goods, bulk Pharmaceuticals, certain agricultural commodities, and also some strategic items; the goods concerned, many of which were on the restricted list in 1967, were set forth in paragraph 4 ( c) of the 1968 Import Regulations, and quotas for them were announced from time to time. ( 5) Goods on the restricted list, i.e., those that required specific import permits. The list con- tained only 24 items, largely agricultural products, such as fresh fruit, and consumer goods also pro- duced in South Africa. Importers of general mer- chandise and merchant importers of raw mate- rials wishing to import any of the goods in this group could convert their import permits into spe- cific permits (in which case the goods to be imported were specifically described), provided that the goods to be imported under the specific permit for which application was made fell within the same general category as the goods detailed in the original import permit issued. Such individ- ual licenses could be obtained by the surrender of the original import permits on the basis of R 2 surrendered for R 1 of the specific permit obtained.2 The first R 5,000 of an importer's total annual quota could be converted into a specific permit for any articles in this category (with three minor specified exceptions) on the basis of R 1 for R 1. In addition, if the goods in this category were imported under rebate of customs duty, a specific permit was not required and there was no import permit loss by conversion. The Import Control Regulations for 1969 fol- low essentially the classification of imports set out above. However, the items listed under (4) above have been reclassified in two subcategories instead of three. Most of the items previously in paragraph 4 ( c) of the 1968 Import Regulations are now in paragraph 4 ( b ). A number of items have been deleted from the restricted list. 2 The Minister of Economic Affairs, however, could refuse applications for such conversions or authorize a conversion subject to such conditions as he might determine. 409 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA Provided that licensing regulations are respected and upon presentation to his bank of the necessary consignment documents (proof of importation), an importer is granted exchange to pay for the import. Payments for Invisibles All payments to nonresidents for current invis- ibles require exchange licenses. For some types of transaction, there is no limitation on the amount; for others, authority is delegated to the commer- cial banks to approve payments up to established limits. For current income payments, such as declared dividends, profits, royalties, etc., that accrue in South Africa, approval is given by the authorized banks without reference to the Reserve Bank, provided that profits or dividends to be remitted by nonresident-owned branches and sub- sidiaries are based on profits earned since Decem- ber 31, 1959 and their remittance does not involve the use of local credit facilities. Favorable consid- eration is, however, given by the Reserve Bank to such transfers where the use of local credit facil- ities is not regarded as excessive. Income derived from securities acquired with blocked funds or otherwise held by nonresidents is freely transfer- able to the monetary area of the owner. Limited amounts of exchange to pay for membership fees, family maintenance, etc., are authorized. The basic allowance for tourist travel in a calendar year is R 2,000 for an adult and R 800 for a child under the age of 12. Separately, there is another annual basic exchange allocation of R 250 for an adult (R 100 for a child under 12) for travel to the Democratic Republic of Congo, Malawi, Rho- desia, Zambia, and Portuguese East and West Africa. Applications for larger amounts are con- sidered on their merits by the Reserve Bank. Residents leaving South Africa may take out freely, as part of the basic travel allowance, the equivalent of R 200 in banknotes, of which South African Reserve Bank notes may not exceed R 100 for travel to Malawi, Portuguese East Africa, Rhodesia, or Zambia, or R 20 for travel to other destinations. Foreign visitors leaving South Africa within 12 months after arrival may take with them up to R 50 in Reserve Bank notes and any reasonable amount of foreign notes which they brought into the country or obtained from the disposal of instruments of exchange that they brought to and exchanged in South Africa. These 410 limitations on the export of Reserve Bank notes do not apply in the case of Bantu returning to neighboring countries, who are permitted to take with them reasonable amounts in the form of banknotes representing their earnings in South Africa. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of commodities considered as being in relatively short supply, or for which domestic prices are substantially lower than those obtain- able overseas, require licenses irrespective of destination (with the exception of exports to Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland). Certain other goods are controlled for strategic reasons only, and permits are required for their export to destinations other than the United Kingdom, any Commonwealth country, any British colony, pro- tectorate, or trust territory, or the United States. Special provisions apply to exports to the Demo- cratic Republic of Congo when these are valued at over R 5,000. The re-export of imported goods is controlled to prevent commodity and exchange arbitrage. Unless otherwise permitted, all export pro- ceeds must be surrendered within 6 months from the date of shipment and 30 days from the date of collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered within 30 days from the date of their acquisition, unless exemption is obtained. Upon entry, resi- dents may bring in R 20 in South African Reserve Bank notes, and nonresidents R 50; however, resident and nonresident travelers coming from Malawi, Mozambique, Rhodesia, or Zambia are allowed to bring in R 100 in South African Reserve Bank notes. Capital The proceeds of the sale of South African securities by nonresidents to residents must be credited to Blocked Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). The following payments related to nonresident capital may be carried out by the authorized banks without reference to the South African Reserve Bank: transfers to nonresidents of the proceeds on maturity of Government, Municipal, and Public ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Utility Stocks and National Savings Certificates, provided that they were registered in the name of the nonresident transferee (who was not an emigrant) on June 16, 1961, or, if the stocks were acquired after June 16, 1961, provided that they are registered continuously in the beneficial owner's name for a period of not less than five years to redemption; normal capital repayments to nonresidents by certain "dying" mines in regu- lar periodic installments not exceeding in any one year 10 per cent of the nominal value per share; transfers to nonresident owners of balance of up to R 50, left over from the reinvestment of blocked funds; and transfers of up to R 20,000 to a nonresident beneficiary from the proceeds of legacies from estates in South Africa that hold no foreign assets. Emigrant families whose assets do not exceed R 20,000 may have R 10,000 transferred abroad as a settling-in allowance, and those with greater assets may have 50 per cent of their assets, up to R 30,000, transferred; any balance exceeding the permissible transfer- able amount is blocked. Prior to June 1964, blocked rand could be used to subscribe to the Government's issue of three-year nonresident rand bonds (for emigrants, subscriptions of up to R 30,000 a family were permitted); this enabled the nonresident to secure the transfer of his funds in convertible currencies at official market rates in three equal annual installments, together with interest at 31/4 per cent a year. Since June 1964, similar facilities have been available through sub- scription to five-year transferable bonds. The South African Reserve Bank may approve transfers of repayments at maturity to nonresi- dent holders of mortgage bonds registered in their names on or before June 16, 1961. Favorable consideration is given for the transfer by nonresi- dent-owned branches and subsidiaries of open or loan account balances or undistributed current profits, or for the transfer of any dividends by them, provided that the remittance does not in- volve the use of local credit facilities. The physi- cal export of nonresident-owned securities is permitted, except by emigrants in excess of their settling-in allowances. Inward capital transfers require exchange con- trol approval; certain types of such transfers are freely permitted by open general licenses. Foreign exchange accruing to residents from capital trans- fers and transactions must be surrendered. Out- SOUTH AFRICA ward transfers of capital by residents in general require the approval of the South African Reserve Bank and are usually not allowed. Transfers by residents for the purchase of South African (or other) shares on external stock exchanges are not permitted (except in amounts not exceeding R 2,000 for each shareholder, to allow South African residents to exercise rights arising from existing holdings of shares in foreign companies quoted only on foreign stock exchanges), although South African stockbrokers may engage in arbitrage transactions in securities, subject to certain conditions designed to prevent any net outflow of exchange. Applications by South Afri- can residents to retain in, or transfer to, Malawi, Rhodesia, Zambia, and the neighboring Portu- guese territories funds for bona fide long-term investment in specific development projects or for the expansion of existing South African owned or controlled projects are considered by the South African Reserve Bank and the Treasury on their merits; but such applications are scruti- nized, in part to prevent remittances to those areas from being used as a first step in the on- ward transfer of capital to other countries. For three years after their arrival in South Africa, immigrants may dispose of their foreign assets held abroad and also invest in South African securities abroad. However, the proceeds from the sale of all securities brought in by immigrants are blocked; the blocking is normally for at least three years, but the restriction may be removed on amounts up to R 20,000 or more, to enable the immigrant to set up a home and to meet current living expenses. There are normally three ways in which hold- ers of blocked rand can repatriate funds from South Africa: ( 1) by taking up special nonresi- dent bonds issued by the Government (see above) —these mature in five years, when the redemp- tion proceeds may be withdrawn at the official rate; (2) by holding certain Government, Muni- cipal, and Public Utility Stocks, and South Afri- can National Savings Certificates for at least five years to redemption, when the proceeds can be transferred abroad at the official rate; and (3) by exporting South African shares bought on the Johannesburg stock exchange, provided that they have been restrictively endorsed, and selling them abroad (at a price which may involve a premium or a discount on the South African quotation). 411 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in South Africa for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, regis- tered gold producers, and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to pur- chase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. All exports of gold require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank; the approval authority has been delegated to authorized dealers in respect of exports of jew- elry constituting the personal effects of a traveler (subject to a written declaration to the effect that the jewelry will be brought back to South Africa on the traveler's return) and in respect of exports of gold jewelry by manufacturing jewelers (subject, except for exports to Malawi, Rhodesia, and Zam- bia, to a written declaration that the articles are in fully manufactured form and that the gold content of each does not exceed 75 per cent of the selling price to the ultimate consignee). Further- more, authorized dealers may without reference to the Reserve Bank allow residents to export currency coins, including gold coins, up to R 300 for each applicant during a calendar year. The gold-mining industry sells its output to the Re- serve Bank, except for sales effected on the industry's behalf in the free market. The Mint from time to time strikes gold coins that do not circulate freely in South Africa as currency; these are made available in limited numbers to resident collectors, while the bulk is sold in non-Sterling Area countries. Imports of gold are confined mainly to coins for numismatic purposes and to certain types of jewelry. Changes during 1968 January L The Import Control Regulations for 1968 went into effect. They provided for some further relaxation of import restrictions and for some rationalization of import control proce- dures. Importers of consumer goods were imme- diately granted a first allocation of import per- mits for 1968 representing 75 per cent of their 1967 permit allocations. The number of items on the restricted list was reduced from 85 to 24, and the ratio for the conversion of general merchan- dise permits into licenses for restricted list items 412 was eased from R 3 to R 2 for each R 1 of a specified permit. A number of items were added to the free list. Some other items were shifted from the restricted list to a new list (set forth in paragraph 4 ( c) of the Regulations) and would be admitted under quotas to be announced from time to time; they included fertilizers, rubber, certain agricultural commodities, specified phar- maceutical products, certain metals, all coins, gold medallions, and certain gold ornaments. Permits for the importation of capital plant and equipment would continue to be granted on the basis of essentiality, and those for the importa- tion of industrial raw materials by manufacturers on the basis of six months' stocks. February 12. Banks were informed that future authorities to import coins for numismatic pur- poses would not normally cover the import of South African gold coins. March 15. Transactions in gold, foreign ex- change, and securities were suspended. The sus- pension was lifted with effect from March 18. March 27. A new State aid scheme for the gold-mining industry was announced. It came into effect on April 1. The new scheme is applied to mines that are likely to close down within eight years if not assisted, and that with assistance can show a significant increase in life and in the production of gold or uranium. April 8. Gold sales were suspended. They would be resumed at a time and in a market— free or official —that would be to South Africa's best advantage. The Reserve Bank was buying all newly mined gold, but when gold sales were resumed, the mining industry would have the right to sell its output on the free market. April 19. The Exchange Control Regulations were amended by the addition to Regulation 3 (1) of a subsection ( f ). The new subsection related to loans or credits to any person in South Africa who is not resident there or to any juridical per- son operating in South Africa with 25 per cent or more of its voting securities, capital, or earnings held or controlled, directly or indirectly, by a person resident outside South Africa. All such loans or credits henceforth required treasury approval. It was announced, however, that the amendment did not involve any change in policy with respect to the credit facilities allowed to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution nonresident-controlled nonresident-owned or companies in South Africa. April 26. Certain minor modifications to the Import Control Regulations were announced. April 26. Imports of sugar, refined or unre- fined, from Swaziland became subject to import control. May 8. An Economic Cooperation Promotion Loan Fund was created. May 10. Exports of canned fruit were made subject to licensing. June 7. Second-round import allocations were announced. They amounted to 25 per cent of 1967 import allocations, bringing the total per- mit issues for 1968 to the same level as that in 1967. June 28. Woven fabrics in which synthetic fibers predominate and certain crude and/or processed fish oil were added to the commodity list in paragraph 4 ( c) of the Import Control Regulations for 1968. July 31. Selective relaxations in exchange con- trols were announced. It was decided, as a first step, that more sympathetic consideration would be given to ( 1) applications to transfer abroad in foreign currencies the local proceeds of the sale of direct long-term investments in the equity of South African enterprises which were con- trolled by nonresidents and which were sold, in whole or in part, to residents; (2) applications by residents who wished to make direct invest- ments abroad, particularly investments with the object of promoting and safeguarding South Afri- can exports, or of protecting foreign assets, or of otherwise securing or strengthening their position abroad as earners of foreign exchange; and (3) applications by residents to redeem their existing foreign loan indebtedness, in part or in full, prior to the due date. The concession under (1) was intended, inter alia, to enable South Africans to SOUTH AFRICA obtain a larger say in foreign-controlled South African concerns. August 1. It was announced that certain addi- tional import allocations in respect of capital and consumer goods would be authorized on a selec- tive basis. August 23. The provisions relating to the con- version of general merchandise permits into spe- cific permits were amended. The Minister of Economic Affairs could, when he deemed it necessary, either refuse applications for such con- version or authorize a conversion subject to such conditions as he might determine. October 21. Special regulations were issued concerning exports to the Democratic Republic of Congo. October 25. The Import Control Regulations for 1969 were published. They provided for an initial 1969 import allocation representing gen- erally 75 per cent of 1968 permit issues. Con- sumer goods subject to quotas (listed in para- graph 4 of the Regulations) were divided into two subcategories instead of three; the new list established in 1968 known as the paragraph 4 ( c) list became paragraph 4 (b) and was reduced in scope. A number of items were deleted from the restricted list. December 13. Authorized dealers could, with- out reference to the South African Reserve Bank, allow residents to export currency coins, includ- ing gold coins, up to R 300 for each applicant during a calendar year. December 13. The amount of Reserve Bank notes that nonresident travelers could take out was reduced from R 100 to R 50. December 19. The Reserve Bank was pre- pared to grant forward cover for up to 12 months for exports of canned fru it and vegetables and exports of base metals and minerals. 413 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0126953 gram of fine gold per Spanish Peseta or Ptas 70.00 = US$1. The official limits are Ptas 69.48 buying, and Ptas 70.53 selling, per US$1. Market rates for specified currencies1 admitted to the exchange mar- ket vary between limits which result from combin- ing the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Spain and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. Purchases and sales of clearing currencies are centralized in the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute (IEME), which publishes the rates at which it settles the transactions it carries out direct and the rate applicable to banknotes. These rates are based on the rates of the previous week. Authorized banks quote buying and selling rates for Moroc- can dirhams. They are allowed to operate in foreign markets for spot transactions and for- ward transactions related to commercial transac- tions for up to 180 days. Exchange Control Territory The Peninsular Territories of the Spanish State, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Ceuta, and Melilla constitute a single exchange control territory, the Spanish Monetary Area. Administration of Control On a policy level, controls are administered by the Ministry of Commerce and, on a technical administrative level, by the IEME and the Direc- torate-General of Foreign Trade —both in the Ministry of Commerce —and by authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transac- tions and invisibles other than those with bilateral payments agreement countries may be made in any specified currency,1 but in practice they are usually made in the currency determined on the basis of the country of origin or destination. Settlements with bilateral payments agreement countries 2 are made through agreement accounts expressed in U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts There are three types of nonresident accounts: external accounts in convertible pesetas, external accounts in internal pesetas, and nonresident ac- counts in convertible foreign currencies. External accounts in convertible pesetas may be credited with proceeds from the sale in the Spanish exchange market of any foreign curren- cies listed in that market; with authorized current and capital payments which have been liberalized or authorized by license, when such payments are to be made in pesetas or specified foreign currencies; with transfers from other similar accounts in convertible pesetas; with interest received on balances held in these accounts; and with receipts from the National Lottery (when evidence is submitted that the ticket was acquired with foreign exchange). They may be debited for the purchase of foreign currencies (including foreign banknotes) listed in the Spanish exchange market; for payments for Spanish exports; for investments in Spain; for transfers to any other external account; and for any other type of pay- ment in Spain. All other entries on these accounts require the prior authorization of the IEME. External accounts in internal pesetas may be credited with pensions and salaries obtained by the account holder and not otherwise transfer- able; with receipts from the National Lottery (when no evidence is submitted that the ticket was acquired with foreign exchange); and with interest received on balances held in these ac- counts. They may be debited to pay the personal expenses in Spain of the account holder and his close relatives (staff expenses if the account is opened in the name of a company), and for the purchase of government bonds, of fixed-interest- 1 In addition to U.S. dollars, these currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 2 Buglaria, Republic of China, Colombia, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Mexico, Paraguay, Poland, Ruman ia, Syrian Arab Republic, United Arab Republic, Uruguay, and Yugoslavia. Spain also has a bilateral payments agreement with Morocco requiring payments between the two countries to be made in bilateral dirhams or bilateral pesetas. 414 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution bearing stocks issued by Spanish public corpora- tions, and of shares quoted on the stock exchange. They may also be debited for the purchase for the use of the account holder of town and country properties that do not represent investments for commercial, industrial, or agricultural purposes. All other entries on these accounts require the prior authorization of the IEME. Nonresident accounts in convertible foreign cur- rencies may be held by nonresident foreign nation- als, nonresident Spanish nationals, and nonresi- dent firms or banks; resident foreign nationals may maintain such accounts only if opened be- fore January 1, 1968. The deposits may be either sight or time deposits. The accounts may be credited with convertible currencies quoted in the Spanish exchange market and with any amount of interest. They may be debited freely for recon- version into the currency initially deposited, for the purchase of other convertible currencies quoted in the Spanish exchange market, and for conversion into pesetas, including the transfer to an external account in external pesetas. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. All imports require either an import license or an "import declaration" issued by the Directorate- General of Foreign Trade. Provided that import prices are not considered abnormal, "import dec- larations" are issued freely for goods (mostly raw materials, capital goods, and spare parts, but also some consumer goods) included in an import free list that applies to most countries with which Spain has no bilateral payments agree- ments.3 All other imports require licenses. For a 3 The countries to which the import free list applies are Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Federal Repub- lic of Germany, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Luxem- bourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, United Kingdom, and their overseas territories; and Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Barbados, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic, Ceylon, Chad, Chile, Congo (Brazzaville), Democratic Republic of Congo, Costa Rica, Cyprus, Dahomey, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Finland, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Israel, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Republic of Korea, Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Malagasy Republic, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali, Maldive Islands, Malta, Maur i tan ia, Mauritius, Mozambique, New Zea- land, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, SPAIN few commodities, import licenses are not at present being issued; these include passenger automobiles. There are global quotas for speci- fied imports from countries to which the free list applies. With certain exceptions, this regime also applies to goods of Japanese origin. Licenses for specified imports from Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and Yugoslavia are issued freely. Imports of certain agricultural prod- ucts that are free of quantitative restriction are subject to variable import levies. Exchange in the appropriate currency to pay for authorized imports is granted freely. Except for capital goods, suppliers' credit for imports is not normally permitted to exceed 90 days. Payments for Invisibles All transfers abroad and payments by residents in favor of nonresidents on account of current invisibles are subject to authorization, mainly for the purpose of checking capital transactions. Pay- ments up to Ptas 5,000 for any purpose may be made freely. For a large proportion of invisibles, the banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange freely, provided that the request is supported by appropriate documents. For certain services trans- fers may be made freely up to a pre-established amount; for transfers which exceed that amount, licenses are granted liberally. Holders of Spanish securities (excluding secu- rities issued by private companies acquired through direct subscription) may freely transfer abroad accrued interest, dividends, and proceeds from the disposal of subscription rights; the secu- rities must have been purchased with convertible pesetas or with pesetas resulting from the sale of foreign exchange quoted in the Spanish foreign exchange market. Profits and dividends on direct investments are also transferable abroad without restriction. A general license permits the rein- surance abroad of risks insured in Spain with Spanish firms or with foreign insurance com- panies operating in Spain. Insurance contracts abroad may not be concluded, except where they concern exports and imports of goods. Philippines, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, South Africa, Southern Yemen, Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, United States, Upper Volta, Venezuela, Viet-Nam, and Zambia. 415 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN There is a basic tourist exchange allowance of Ptas 50,000 a person a year; in addition, alloca- tions of Ptas 50,000 a person a trip may be taken up, subject to the prior agreement of the IEME, once the basic allocation has been used up. The authorized banks are also permitted to sell the equivalent of Ptas 2,000 a day for busi- ness trips, up to the equivalent of Ptas 100,000 a person for each trip. For longer business trips, the bank must apply to the IEME for additional exchange, which is granted liberally for this pur- pose. Travelers may take with them Ptas 3,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to prior licensing by the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade. Ex- ports to all destinations of olives for oil pro- duction are suspended, while other types of olives may be exported freely. With very few exceptions, licenses for exports are granted freely. All export proceeds must be sold in the exchange market or to the IEME through authorized banks. Certain agricultural exports are subject to an export tax. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange proceeds from invisibles must be sold in the exchange market or to the IEME through authorized banks. Travelers may bring in a max imum of Ptas 50,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. Capital Foreign capital participation is permitted freely in most Spanish industries, as specified in a decree of April 18, 1963. In certain other industries, foreign investment of up to 50 per cent of the capital of the enterprise is permitted freely, and that which exceeds 50 per cent requires the authorization of the Council of Ministers; for participation in Spanish shipping companies, the former ratio is 40 per cent. Foreign investment is not permitted in Spanish enterprises whose activ- ity is directly connected with national defense, public information, and certain public services. New investment, both foreign and Spanish, for the establishment of Spanish enterprises in a large number of specified sectors that are under the jurisdiction of the Ministries of Industry and 416 Agriculture is free from control, provided that certain minimum conditions are met; these condi- tions relate mainly to the size of the enterprise and its potential output. Investment in existing enterprises in these sectors is permitted freely even if the minimum conditions are not fulfilled. All investment in a few specified industrial and agricultural sectors requires prior authorization by the Government; investment in all other indus- trial and agricultural sectors and in the tourist sector is free. Foreign investment for the purpose of modern- izing, expanding, and establishing Spanish enter- prises may be effected either by transferring cur- rencies that are negotiable in the Madrid exchange market, by using convertible pesetas, by bringing in capital goods, by reinvesting profits or capital transferable under the Foreign Investment Law, or by providing know-how, patents, or licenses. Proceeds, including capital appreciation, from the liquidation of foreign direct investments made after January 1, 1950 for the purpose of establish- ing, modernizing, and expanding Spanish enter- prises may be transferred freely. Transfers abroad of principal of investments made by nonresidents before January 1, 1950 are subject to prior authorization by the IEME; such authorization is rarely given. Purchases by nonresidents of shares in most Spanish companies, as specified in Decree No. 701 of April 18, 1963 (including investment trusts but excluding those companies whose activity is directly connected with national defense, public information, and certain public services) are per- mitted freely. This applies to shares acquired by Spaniards resident abroad, as well as by resident or nonresident foreigners, either with convertible pesetas or with pesetas resulting from the con- version of foreign currencies negotiable in the Spanish exchange market. Proceeds, including capital gains, from the liquidation of such shares acquired after January 1, 1950 may be transferred abroad at any time, or used for further purchases of shares. The above applies also to bonds and other fixed-income securities representing debts of Spanish companies; there is no limit on bond holdings. Proceeds obtained from the sale of non- resident holdings of shares of Spanish companies and other Spanish securities acquired before January 1, 1950 may be used to purchase other ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Spanish securities but may not be. transferred abroad without prior authorization by the IEME; such authorization is rarely given. For transfers abroad of inheritances and dow- ries, authorizations are granted liberally when small amounts are involved. SPAIN Investment in Spanish real estate by nonresi- dents is freely permitted if financed with pesetas derived from convertible currencies or from bal- ances in convertible peseta accounts. The IEME has empowered authorized banks to provide the investor with a document certifying that he owns such pesetas; this is the only requirement for official registration of the change in ownership. Certain investments in real estate may also be financed from external accounts in interned pese- tas (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Irrespective of the method of financing, country properties purchased may not exceed 4 hectares of irrigated land or 20 hectares of unirrigated land. Outward capital transfers by residents require approval. Requests by firms to invest abroad in the same line of business are granted rather liberally, provided that the investment contributes to the expansion of Spanish exports; this includes participation in foreign enterprises. Other direct investments are subject to more severe restric- tions. Portfolio investments by all residents and purchases of real estate abroad by private persons are severely restricted. Approval of requests by residents to grant loans to nonresidents is based on criteria similar to those applied to residents' requests to make direct investments abroad. Suppliers' credits by Spanish residents to non- residents require authorization; such authoriza- tion accompanies the export license. Before issu- ing the license, the IEME may be consulted about the granting of the credit. There has been no experience with the issuing of bonds in the Spanish capital market by non- residents, nor with short-term credits by Spanish banks to nonresidents. Credits to nonresidents for transactions with Spain may, however, be autho- rized by the IEME. Also, the authorized banks may extend various types of credit to nonresi- dents, provided that this credit is financed with funds deposited in Spain in nonresident convert- ible currency accounts; some forms of such credit do not require prior approval by the IEME. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Spain for numismatic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Only the monetary authorities are permitted to import gold for industrial purposes. Changes during 1968 January 1. Imports from Rumania were ac- corded OECD treatment. January 1. New accounts in convertible foreign currencies (both sight and time deposit accounts) in Spain could be opened in the names of non- resident foreign firms and institutions and non- resident physical persons, whether Spanish nationals or not. Previously, nonresident Span- iards could only maintain external accounts in internal pesetas, while other nonresidents could only have external accounts in convertible pese- tas. Authorized banks no longer required prior approval to open such accounts in convertible foreign currencies. Existing foreign currency accounts held by resident foreign nationals were not affected, but they could no longer open such accounts. Authorized banks could freely place abroad funds held in nonresident convertible currency accounts, either as bank deposits or by granting loans to any nonresident; they could also lend such funds to residents for export financing of up to six months, or, subject to prior approval by the IEME, for other loans to residents. Pre- viously, banks could use such funds only for placing abroad as bank deposits. January 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Mauritania was terminated; settlements henceforth took place in convertible currencies. January 22. Quotas on shipments of oranges to EEC countries and the United Kingdom were suspended. January 27. The global import quotas for 1968 417 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN were announced. The number of quotas remained at 59 while their total value expressed in U.S. dollars was slightly lower than in 1967. travel was increased from Ptas 1,500 a day (up to Ptas 75,000 a trip) to Ptas 2,000 a day (up to Ptas 100,000 a t r ip ). February 2. Certain foodstuffs and fodder be- came eligible for import subsidies. They included chilled and frozen beef, fish meal, soybeans, vegetable fats, and various types of animal feed. February 6. A protocol to the payments agree- ment with the United Arab Republic was signed. It provided, among other things, for the settle- ment in six annual installments of accumulated debt of the United Arab Republic to Spain. February 22. The purposes for which autho- rized banks could use funds in nonresident ac- counts in convertible foreign currencies were expanded. April 1. Overdrafts on nonresident accounts in convertible foreign currencies were prohibited, except for mail credits in favor of foreign banks. May 11. A new payments agreement with Yugoslavia entered into force. In a protocol to the agreement, it was reconfirmed that Spain would accord imports of Yugoslav origin OECD treatment. September 1. The basic allowance for tourist travel was changed from Ptas 42,000 a person a trip to Ptas 50,000 a person for each calendar year; however, once they had used up this quota, travelers could, subject to the agreement of the IEME, obtain additional allocations of Ptas 50,000 a person a trip. The basic allowance for business September 28. Procedural changes were an- nounced relating to the handling of import dec- larations and licenses and to methods of paying for imports. All import transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank, and the import payment must be made through the intermediary of the bank of domiciliation. Applications for import declarations and licenses could be sub- mitted to authorized banks, which would forward them to the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade. The new procedures would come into effect on January 1, 1969. December 6. Further to the procedural changes announced on September 28, decisions of the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade and of the IEME were published concerning import licens- ing. With effect from January 1, 1969, only the following types of import licenses would be issued: licenses for liberalized trade; for global- ized trade; for trade that is neither liberalized nor globalized (corresponding to the previous bilateral licenses and state trading licenses); for imports without either foreign exchange or com- pensation; and for special transactions. December 12. The IEME issued a circular, to come into effect on January 1, 1969, concerning procedural changes for import payments. December 21. The import free list was extended to additional countries. 418 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.55187 grams of fine gold per Sudanese Pound or LSd 1 = US$2.87156. Official rates for transactions in sterling are fixed by the Bank of Sudan ( the central b a n k ), whose rates for transactions with authorized banks and the Government are LSd 0.8348 buying, and LSd 0.8368 selling, per <£ stg. 1. The banks' rates in dealing with the public are LSd 0.8323 buying for telegraphic transfers, LSd 0.8303 buy- ing for mail transfers, LSd 0.8393 selling for amounts up to <£ stg. 10,000, and LSd 0.83906 selling for amounts over <£ stg. 10,000. Official rates for the U.S. dollar are fixed daily by the Bank of Sudan and are based on London market rates. The authorized banks quote their own rates for other currencies, based on ma rket quotations in London. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Sudan, much of the detail being carried out by authorized banks. The issuance of registration forms and the licensing of imports and exports are the responsibility of the Ministry of Com- merce and Supply, but all registration forms and licenses must be validated by the exchange con- trol authorities (Bank of Sudan) or an autho- rized bank; banks may only validate registration forms and licenses for imports from mainland China and countries with which bilateral pay- ments agreements are in force. Prescription of Currency Transactions with bilateral countries * are nor- mally settled through the relevant bilateral account in Sudanese pounds or pounds sterling; however, most noncommercial invisibles except those payable to the United Arab Repub l ic2 have to be settled outside these accounts. Pay- 1 The Sudan has bilateral payments agreements with Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, India, Poland, and United A rab Republic. 2 Paymen ts to the United A rab Republic for Suez Canal dues must be made in convertible currencies, and most proceeds from invisible exports to the United Arab Republic must be received in convertible currencies. All other paymen ts are settled through the bilateral account. ments to all other countries and monetary areas (the "convertible area") may be made in Sudan- ese pounds to the credit of any nonresident account or in any foreign currency, while receipts from the "convertible area" may be accepted in Sudanese pounds from any nonresident account or in any convertible or externally convertible currency. Nonresident Accounts Residents of all countries other than bilateral countries may under certain circumstances main- tain accounts in Sudanese pounds designated nonresident accounts; these are exchangeable into any foreign currency. Bilateral accounts are used for most transactions with countries with which the Sudan has bilateral payments agreements (see footnote 1). Blocked Accounts are maintained by former residents; earnings accruing on these accounts may be transferred in reasonable amounts, and balances, which are not negotiable, may be used within the Sudan by the account holder for his personal expenses up to limits established in each case by the exchange control authorities. Except for the crediting of interest, all debits and credits to Blocked Accounts require approval. Imports and Import Payments Certain imports are prohibited for protective reasons. Imports from Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Permitted imports are divided into three categories: (1) Imports not subject to licensing, including goods imported directly by the Government, books, periodicals, trade samples, and goods imported by parcel post or air freight, the value of which does not exceed LSd 2, or, for gifts, LSd 5. (2) Imports on an open general license list, which comprises a number of essential goods, including raw materials and some capital and consumer goods. The open general license is designed to permit imports of these goods freely from any source. (3) Imports subject to indi- vidual licensing. Certain commodities are imported by state agencies only. They include sugar, tea, coffee, and salt. 419 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN For goods that require individual licensing, import licenses must be obtained from the Min- istry of Commerce and Supply and validated by the Exchange Control Department of the central bank (or an authorized bank for imports from mainland China and countries with which pay- ments agreements are in force). For goods on the open general license list, importers must reg- ister their import transactions with the Ministry of Commerce and Supply, before entering into firm contracts with foreign suppliers; the regis- tration form must be validated by the central bank (or an authorized bank for imports from mainland China and countries with which pay- ments agreements are in force). The Ministry of Commerce and Supply checks to see that prices are reasonable, while the central bank (or an authorized bank) checks the observance of the prescription of currency requirements and the terms of payment. If payment is made under a letter of credit, the authorized bank usually requires a 40 per cent cash margin upon its establishment. Each import license or registration form issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Supply must, within 30 days from the date of issue, be submitted to the central bank (or an authorized bank for imports from mainland China and countries with which payments agree- ments are in force) to be validated. Before vali- dation is given, an advance import deposit of 5 per cent of the c.i.f. value must be made for most private imports. The issue of an import license or the acceptance of a registration form implies that foreign exchange for the goods con- cerned will be granted. A surcharge of 10 per cent is levied on the c.i.f. value of all imports. A stamp du ty of LSd 5 is levied on the application form for each remit- tance in respect of imports; government remit- tances, however, are exempt. A license fee of LSd 2 is payable on all registration forms and licenses for imports valued at more than LSd 10. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles require licenses. Remittances are permitted for fam i ly mainte- nance (up to LSd 500 a person a y e a r ), educa- tional expenses (up to LSd 840 a student a year for Europe), and for certain other purposes. Travel allowances for tourism and other purposes 420 (except pilgrimages) are authorized by the Bank of Sudan at a basic rate equivalent to LSd 63 for each adult, and LSd 21 for each child, every other year. Allowances for travel to the United Arab Republic are the equivalent of LSd 100 for an adult, and LSd 25 a child, a year. In practice, allocations of exchange for travel purposes often exceed the basic allowances. Salaried foreign nationals not permanently resident in the Sudan are permitted to remit their bona fide current savings to any country other than Israel, Portu- gal, Rhodesia, or South Africa. Shipping charges, insurance premiums, profits, interest, and divi- dends earned by nonresidents may be remitted freely upon presentation of the required docu- ments. Income accruing to emigrants from blocked assets in the Sudan (including income from Blocked Accounts) may be remitted up to LSd 1,500 a year. Travelers may not take out of the Sudan more than LSd 10 in Sudanese cur- rency; pilgrims may not export Sudanese bank- notes. Stamp duties are payable on the applica- tion forms for virtually all payments for invis- ibles. The du ty is LSd 10 on applications for remittances of profits and dividends, LSd 5 on applications for other transfers and for foreign exchange for business travel, LSd 2 on applica- tions for foreign exchange for other travel, and from LSd 0.25 to LSd 1 on applications for remittances for other purposes; government remittances are exempt. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. With the exception of exports to the United Arab Republic and exports of domestic products in short supply, which are subject to individual licensing, exports do not require a license. Exporters must, how- ever, submit an export form to an authorized bank. Authorized banks may approve these forms only if payment is in the form of cash against documents or against sight letters of credit; exports on credit require the approval of the Bank of Sudan. The proceeds of exports must be repatriated and surrendered through an autho- rized bank. When the terms of payment are cash against documents or sight letter of credit, pro- ceeds must be surrendered on delivery of the shipping documents; in other cases a surrender date is usually specified. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from abroad in respect of invisibles must be surrendered to authorized banks and are subject to the general prescription of currency requirements. Travelers entering the Sudan may bring in LSd 10 in Sudanese currency and any amount in notes and coins of other countries permitted by their regulations to be taken out of those countries; pilgrims, however, are not per- mitted to import Sudanese banknotes. Capital Under the Organization and Promotion of Industrial Investment Act of 1967, which super- seded an earlier law for the encouragement of foreign investment, incoming foreign capital for industrial investment may be registered and thus may receive, among other advantages, a guaran- tee for repatriation of the original capital and profits thereon. Emigrants of Sudanese national- ity may on departure transfer up to the equivalent of LSd 1,500 to their new country. Upon emigra- tion from the Sudan, resident foreigners may transfer up to the equivalent of LSd 2,500. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in the Sudan for numismatic purposes. Sub- ject to certain conditions, residents may also pur- chase, hold, and sell in the Sudan domestically produced gold. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities and autho- rized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Bank of Sudan; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary author- ities and industrial users. Changes during 1968 February 6. The suspension of foreign exchange allocations for leave and business travel was terminated. February 15. The new investment promotion legislation (Organization and Promotion of Industrial Investment Act of 1967) entered into force. Incentives provided for eligible enterprises include exemption from business profit taxes for SUDAN five years from the date of commencement of production; exemption from import duties of all machinery, equipment, and spare parts and reduction of import duties on raw materials to a maximum of 10 per cent of their value; and provision of land at reduced prices. February 26. The trade targets under the trade and payments agreement with the United Arab Republic were raised from <£ stg. 6.25 million to <£ stg. 8.25 million in either direction for the period February 1, 1968 to January 31, 1969. March 3. Special export levies were imposed on specified goods, the proceeds of which are to be used to reimburse exporters who suffered losses from the sterling devaluation in Novem- ber 1967. April 7. Importers were invited to submit to the Ministry of Commerce and Supply applica- tions for import licenses, except for specified locally produced goods, representing their require- ments for the period from April 1 to Septem- ber 30, 1968. April 7. Twenty-three commodities, mainly consumption goods, were added to the open gen- eral license list, which previously comprised approximately 185 commodities or groups of commodities. April 16. The ban on imports from Hong Kong was lifted, except for textiles. May 11. An advance deposit of 5 per cent of the value of an import license or registration form was to be paid before a license or registra- tion form would be validated; a similar deposit was required upon the extension of licenses already validated. The deposits would be refunded after arrival of the goods. Imports on behalf of the Government or semigovernmental units, imports of capital goods and spare parts, raw materials, agricultural insecticides, and med- icines were exempt. May 16. Specified paper products required individual licenses. June 15. The cash margin required upon establishment of a letter of credit was raised from 40 per cent to 60 per cent. The 40 per cent requirement was restored on November 4. July 10. Increased import and export targets under the trade and payments agreement with 421 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN India were established. They called for imports into the Sudan from India of <£ stg. 17.2 million, and for exports from the Sudan to India of <£ stg. 18.6 million, during the period Janu- ary 1, 1968 to June 30, 1969. August 20. Imports of tea, coffee, and salt were restricted to government monopolies. August 21. The import surcharge was raised from 5 per cent to 8 per cent of the c.i.f. value. September 2. The customs agreement between the Sudan and the United Arab Republic was renewed for a fur ther period of three years. September 10. Durra was put under export license. October 12. Virtually all export levies on prod- ucts other than cotton and gum arabic were abol- ished. October 14. The import surcharge was raised from 8 per cent to 10 per cent of the c.i.f. value. Import duties on selected items were increased. October 15. Stamp duties on exchange con- trol application forms, which had ranged from LSd 0.25 to LSd 5, were raised to a range of LSd 0.25 to LSd 10, depending on the type of transaction. 422 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAM Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.471230 gram of fine gold per Surinam Guilder or Sur. f. 1.88585 = US$1. The official rates are Sur. f. 1.87 buying, and Sur. f. 1.90 selling, per US$1. The rates for other currencies are based on the quotations for the U.S. dollar in terms of those currencies. Administration of Control Exchange licenses, where required, are issued by the Foreign Exchange Control Board. The commercial banks have authority to provide for- eign exchange for certain current transactions. Prescription of Currency Settlements must, in general, be made in con- vertible currencies;1 payments to and from the Netherlands Antilles may also be made in Neth- erlands Antilles guilders or Surinam guilders. Payments to and from the U.S.S.R. must be made through bilateral accounts in Netherlands guild- ers kept with authorized banks in the Nether- lands. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open and hold accounts in foreign currency with domestic banks. Nonresidents other than banks may freely open accounts in Surinam guilders with domestic banks; permitted debits and credits are subject in certain cases to a specific or general license. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all imports. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for protective reasons. Some commodities are subject to import quotas; all other imports are licensed freely. The import license serves as a payment license, exchange being made available upon presentation of the license. 1 In the Surinam regulations, these are listed as Aus- tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche m a rk, East Caribbean dollars, French francs, Guyana dollars, I ta l ian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Trinidad and Tobago dollars, and U.S. dollars. Payments for Invisibles Payments for most invisibles require individual licenses. The commercial banks have authority to provide foreign exchange up to Sur. f. 100 an item a month on account of certain services (advertising expenses, bank charges, legal fees, membership dues, copy and patent rights, e tc .); up to Sur. f. 300 a year from each remitter in respect of gifts, subject to a limit of Sur. f. 300 a year on any beneficiary's receipt of gifts from Surinam residents; and up to Sur. f. 450-600 a month for the support of the remitter's own fam- ily in the Netherlands Antilles or the Netherlands (fam i ly remittances up to the same amounts to other countries require a license, which is granted upon application). The basic exchange allow- ance to residents for travel is Sur. f. 500-2,000 a person for each trip, the amount depending on the destination; the authorized bank must enter on the travel ticket the amount of foreign exchange sold and the date, the purchase of travel exchange not being permitted until three days before departure. Travelers may take out a maximum of Sur. f. 100 in Surinam currency. Payments due as interest on loans and as net income from other investments, and payments of moderate amounts for amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments, may be made if an application supported by an auditor's report is duly presented to the Foreign Exchange Con- trol Board for verification. Exports and Export Proceeds Except for gold, exports of local products do not require licenses, provided that the exporter undertakes to surrender the proceeds within six months to an authorized bank. A certain type of local timber used in the manufac ture of plywood and particle board may be exported only in spe- cial circumstances. All re-exports and barter exports require a license. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in foreign currency without limit, but not more than Sur. f. 100 in domestic cur- rency; resident travelers must surrender any for- 423 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAM eign currency in excess of Sur. f. 500. the equivalent of Capital A declaration of the Foreign Exchange Con- trol Board in 1960 provides for the transfer abroad of capital proceeds from the sale to resi- dents or the liquidation of fu l ly or partly foreign- owned companies or other forms of enterprise. It also provides for the transfer of profits. An Investment Law passed on February 3, 1960 pro- vides for additional incentives to private foreign investment in Surinam. Taxable earnings (dividends) must be trans- ferred within a period of three years; otherwise, they become part of the firm's working capital and may only be transferred in annual quotas of 20 per cent. Licenses are granted on application for trans- fers abroad from a deceased's estate, up to a maximum of Sur. f. 25,000. For estates of more than Sur. f. 25,000, fu r ther annual transfers above the maximum of Sur. f. 25,000 are per- mitted so as to spread them over a period not exceeding ten years. The repatriation of personal assets belonging to departing persons, including emigrants, is permitted up to specified amounts. Subject to certain requirements, residents may purchase in specified countries Surinam corpo- rate shares that have been designated as nego- tiable by the Foreign Exchange Control Board. Transfers for investment in foreign securities or real estate by residents are not permitted, although exceptions may be made for direct investments abroad when it is considered that Surinam interests will benefit. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Surinam for numismatic and investment pur- poses; authorized banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and with other residents. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not allowed without special permission to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jew- elry or coins, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Foreign Exchange Control Board; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports of coins by authorized banks, and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, pro- ducers of gold, and industrial users. Changes during 1968 No significant changes took place. 424 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND * Exchange System Swaziland's currency is the South African Rand, the par value of which is 1.24414 grams of fine gold per rand or R 1 = US$1.40. Exchange rates are based on South Africa's fixed rates for sterling against rand and the London market rates for sterling against other currencies. Swaziland operates exchange control regula- tions similar to those of South Africa, except with regard to transactions within the Sterling Area, of which Swaziland is a member. Payments for cur- rent transactions, whether within or outside the Sterling Area, while subject to control, are not restricted. Outward transfers of capital within the Sterling Area are permitted but require the approval of the Swaziland exchange control authorities. Inward capital transfers require exchange control approval, but certain types of such transfers are freely permitted by open gen- eral licenses. Swaziland is a member of the South- ern African Customs Union by virtue of the Cus- toms Union Agreement of 1910. It operates its own import licensing system, based on the South African regulations. 1 Swaziland is not a member of the In te rna t ional Mone tary Fund. Changes during 1968 No significant changes took place. 425 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN Exchange System The par value is 0.171783 gram of fine gold per Swedish Krona or SKr 5.17321 = US$1. The Sveriges Riksbank is ready to carry out transactions in U.S. dollars with authorized ("exchange") banks at the official limits of SKr 5.135 buying, and SKr 5.2125 selling, per US$1. The rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Practically all exchange transactions must be carried out by or through authorized banks. For the guidance of authorized banks and without any commitment on its part, the Riksbank has informed the banks of limit rates for 13 curren- cies,2 based upon the above limits for the U.S. dollar and the limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. In transactions in these currencies with the public, the authorized banks apply buying and selling rates, the average of which must lie within the established limits. The difference between the buying and selling rates applied by authorized banks may not exceed that prescribed by the Riksbank for each of the currencies in question. Authorized banks may buy from and sell to other authorized banks any foreign currency on a spot basis against another foreign currency or Swedish kronor. Also, they may purchase, spot, from foreign banks and other nonresidents for- eign currencies against any foreign currency or Swedish kronor credited to a Regular Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). They may sell, spot, to foreign banks and other nonresidents foreign currencies against any other foreign currency or Swedish kronor debited to a Regular Account. Authorized banks may conclude with residents other than banks forward exchange transactions covering current payments and authorized pay- ments for periods not exceeding ( 1) 24 months in respect of receipts for exports, freight, and 1 In view of certain changes which took place early in 1969 (see note at the end of this su rvey ), this survey presents the situation on Janua ry 4, 1969. 2 These currencies are Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, Finnish ma rkkaa, French f rancs, Icelandic k ronu r, Italian lire, Ne the r lands gu i lders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. 426 charter services, (2) 12 months in respect of payments for imports, freight, and charter ser- vices, and (3) 6 months in respect of other receipts and payments. Authorized banks may conclude forward transactions for a period not exceeding 12 months with other authorized banks or, under certain conditions, with foreign banks. Such transactions between banks may, however, be for periods exceeding 12 months if made in cover of forward deals with residents. Forward market rates are left to the interplay of market forces. Sweden accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Sveriges Riksbank through its Exchange Control Board.3 The Board's decisions may be appealed to the Board of Directors of the Riksbank. Authorized banks and some other authorized agencies implement the exchange control regu- lations. All current payments are exempt from exchange control, provided that they are made through the intermediary of an authorized bank in accordance with the currency prescriptions issued by the Riksbank. The authorized banks have been granted general licenses giving them power to approve various payments that are still subject to exchange control. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Board of Trade, except those for foods, which are issued by the National Agricul- tural Marketing Board. Prescription of Currency Payments to residents of Eastern Germany, with which there is a privately concluded com- pensation agreement, must be made by crediting 3 The Exchange Control Board has seven members. Four of them and the ir a l terna tes are appointed by the Gove rnmen t; the other members and the ir a l te rna tes are appointed by the Board of Directors of the Sveriges R ik sbank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution kronor to a Special Account related to that coun- try. Receipts from Eastern Germany may be accepted in any convertible currency or in kronor through the Special Account of that country or through any Regular Account. Payments to resi- dents of other countries may be made in any for- eign currency or by crediting kronor to any non- resident account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Receipts from other countries may be accepted in any foreign currency or in Swedish kronor debited to any Regular Account. Nonresident Accounts There are two main types of nonresident accounts held in Swedish kronor with authorized banks in Sweden: Regular Accounts and Restricted Accounts. Other nonresident accounts are Foreign Exchange Accounts and Kronor Accounts for Nonresidents domiciled in Sweden. Regular Accounts are held by residents of all countries except Eastern Germany. Regular Accounts may be credited with transfers from other Regular Accounts, with authorized pay- ments to countries other than Eastern Germany by residents of Sweden, and with sales of any foreign currency. They may be debited for trans- fers to any other Regular Account and for autho- rized payments to residents of Sweden, and they may be exchanged into any foreign currency. The crediting of Regular Accounts with proceeds from sales of foreign currencies or with transfers from other Regular Accounts may not result in the creation of abnormal balances. Restricted Accounts are held mainly by per- sons who had been residents of Sweden but who became nonresidents after emigrating from that country. The accounts may be credited with inter- est accrued to, and earnings from, assets in Swe- den, and proceeds from sales of assets in Sweden, owned by account holders, and funds transferred from abroad. Balances in Restricted Accounts may be used for payments in Sweden for main- tenance expenses of the account holder and his fam i ly; minor merchandise purchases; taxes and other official charges; and expenses related to the administration and maintenance of the account holder's assets in Sweden; purchases of Swedish bonds denominated solely in Swedish kronor and of real estate; and gifts to, and the support of, persons domiciled in Sweden. SWEDEN Foreign Exchange Accounts4 are in foreign currencies. Such accounts may be credited with authorized payments in foreign currencies due to the account holder and with accrued interest. Balances on such accounts may be used for mak- ing authorized payments in foreign currencies to a resident. A Foreign Exchange Account may also be credited with transfers from abroad of foreign currencies, or transfers from Regular Accounts or from other Foreign Exchange Accounts. A Foreign Exchange Account may be debited for transfers to any nonresident account. Balances on Foreign Exchange Accounts may be sold to an authorized bank against any other for- eign currency or Swedish kronor. Kronor Accounts for Nonresidents domiciled in Sweden may be maintained by banks and cen- ters of agricultural credit associations. These accounts may be credited with payments in Swe- den in favor of an account holder and with accrued interest; they may be used for with- drawals in kronor in Sweden. Imports and Import Payments All imports are prohibited when originating in or shipped from Rhodesia. With the main excep- tion of a few agricultural and fishery products, practically all goods are free from quantitative restriction and import licensing when imported from countries other than (1) Japan, the Bonin Islands, the Ryukyu Islands, and certain other Pacific islands under U.S. control, and (2) Alba- nia, Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Mon- golia, Poland, Rumania, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. Most imports from countries in the second group, except Eastern Germany, are also liberalized. All imports from Japan require licenses; these are in principle issued freely, except for a few specified commodities. Imports from certain countries of specified textiles and clothing are subject to specific license arrange- ments. Technically, the exceptions to the liberali- zation regime are governed by "negative" lists. Imports not covered by the liberalization mea- 4 Residents may also ma in ta in Foreign Exchange Accounts in foreign currencies. Such accounts may be credited w i th authorized receipts in foreign currencies, and be debited for authorized payments in foreign cur- rencies. 427 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN sures require individual licenses, some of which are granted in accordance with bilateral trade arrangements. Payments for imports, including normal advance payments, may, as current payments, be made without permission through authorized banks and without the formality of presenting an import license. If the conditions specified for cur- rent payments (see section on Payments for Invisibles, below) are not met, an exchange con- trol permit is required. Importers are permitted to utilize foreign commercial credits, provided that these do not exceed what is regarded as cus- tomary in the trade. Payments for Invisibles Exchange control regulations define and list those categories of payments abroad which are considered as current payments. Persons domi- ciled in Sweden may make such payments with- out restriction in favor of persons domiciled abroad. The payments must be made through authorized banks in order to ensure that capital payments are not made in the guise of current payments. Payments not exceeding the equivalent of SKr 100 that are made abroad for any purpose do not have to be verified by authorized banks. For tourism, recreational travel, or study abroad, residents may acquire and take out freely up to SKr 6,000 a trip in Swedish and foreign banknotes and coins and other means of pay- ment; applications for additional amounts must be submitted to the Riksbank and are given lib- eral treatment. Authorized banks and other authorized agencies may allocate to residents, without restriction, exchange for business travel abroad. Nonresidents leaving Sweden may export freely Swedish and foreign banknotes and other means of payment which they brought into, or duly acquired in, the country. No traveler may, how- ever, without specific permission take out of Sweden more than SKr 6,000 in Swedish bank- notes and coins. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports except ships, scrap metals, and arms are exempt from license if payment is to be received in conformity with the general regula- tions (see section on Prescription of Currency, 428 above); however, all exports to Rhodesia are prohibited and all exports to Eastern Germany require licenses. Proceeds from exports of goods do not have to be surrendered; they may be kept in a foreign currency account with a Swedish authorized bank and used by the holder to make authorized payments abroad, or they may be sold to an authorized bank against Swedish kronor. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles are subject to the same treatment as those from exports (see sec- tion on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Each person entering Sweden may bring in up to SKr 6,000 in Swedish banknotes and coins, and unlimited amounts of other means of pay- ment. Capital Direct investment abroad by Swedish residents requires individual authorization, which nor- mally is granted. Residents may, on application, transfer capital abroad to purchase, for recrea- tional purposes, real estate valued at no more than SKr 75,000, subject to certain limitations regarding the cost of a lot and the time allowed for building on it. A Swedish resident when emi- grating is, on application, permitted to transfer up to SKr 100,000; after one calendar year (beyond the year of emigration), he will nor- mally be permitted to transfer the remainder of his assets. Transfers on account of inheritances that are due to nonresidents are permitted. Residents are permitted to accept capital receipts from abroad on account of life, pension, and annuity contracts; contractual amortization of their investments; the sale of foreign securities, real estate abroad, and personal property held by them abroad; and gifts and inheritances. Resi- dents can accept other kinds of capital receipts from abroad only upon approval from the Riks- bank. Residents who wish to receive loans or credits other than normal suppliers' credit from non- residents must receive authorization to do so; each case is considered on its merits, but in prin- ciple borrowing abroad to finance economic activity in Sweden is not currently authorized. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution The Riksbank permits exporters, however, to cover their normal suppliers' credits through for- eign borrowing. Swedish importers also can be granted permission to take up credit abroad to finance contemplated imports. In this context, authorized banks are upon application permitted to extend to the foreign counterpart of a Swedish exporter or importer credit intended to finance certain specified import and export transactions, and to refinance such credit through foreign bor- rowing in a corresponding amount. Permission for the financing of the afore-mentioned export and import transactions requires that the credits conform to normal commercial practice. Foreign- owned companies in Sweden usually are per- mitted to borrow from the parent companies. Permission is needed for the issuance of bonds and shares in Sweden by nonresidents; bond issues in favor of other Scandinavian countries have been admitted when the state of the Swedish capital market was considered to allow them. Foreign direct investments in Sweden require authorization, which normally is given. Liquida- tion of such investments and the transfer of proceeds, including appreciation, require author- ization, which always is given. Investment by non- residents in Swedish real estate requires approval according to regulations other than exchange con- trol regulations. Residents do not need authorization to sell for- eign securities to nonresidents. The purchase of listed, as well as unlisted, foreign securities by residents from nonresidents requires authoriza- tion. As a rule, such authorization is not granted. However, authorized banks and stockbrokers may by virtue of a general license purchase from nonresidents, on behalf of residents, listed for- eign securities and listed Swedish securities denominated in foreign currencies with the pro- ceeds from sales to nonresidents of Swedish-held securities denominated in foreign currencies, provided that the purchase does not include cer- tificates or shares issued by investment com- panies or investment funds (mu tual funds) and is made within six months of the corresponding sale. Residents may without authorization buy foreign securities and Swedish securities denomi- nated in foreign currencies from other residents. Residents are upon application permitted to purchase abroad listed Swedish securities SWEDEN expressed in Swedish kronor, provided that an affidavit can be produced showing either ( 1) that at no time since January 1, 1959 have the secu- rities been owned by a person domiciled in Swe- den, or ( 2) that the securities have been acquired with the permission of the Swedish exchange authorities from a person domiciled in Sweden. The authorized banks and stockbrokers may, by virtue of a general license, handle purchases by nonresidents of listed Swedish securities expressed in Swedish kronor when payment is to be made in the form of other similar securities (switches), provided that ( 1) the foreign seller and buyer is the same person in each case; (2) the afore- mentioned affidavit requirements are met; (3) foreign holdings of bonds are not exchanged for shares; and (4) not more than two weeks pass between the date of the purchase from, and the date of the sale to, the foreign party. Gold Gold in any form may be held, purchased, and sold within Sweden. Imports and exports of gold and gold alloys require licenses issued by the Riksbank; the types of gold affected are unmanu- factured gold, most types of semimanufactured gold, and gold coins (except coins imported by or on behalf of collectors or collections). Import licenses are normally granted to jewelers, dental laboratories, and users of gold for industrial and scientific purposes, as well as to persons and firms importing for resale to these categories of users. As a general rule, no licenses are issued for the import of gold to be held on private account. Commercial imports and exports of articles containing gold, such as jewelry, may be made freely without a license. The same applies to imports and exports of gold coins of numismatic value and intended for collectors or collections. Changes during 1968 March 1. The restrictions on imports of spe- cified textiles originating in the Republic of Korea were abolished. They remained subject to an individual import license. March 7. The licensing requirements for exports to Eastern European countries (except Eastern Germany) and mainland China were abolished, except for ships, arms, and scrap metals. 429 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN April 1. Agreement was reached with Yugo- slavia on a temporary restriction of exports to Sweden of certain textiles and clothing. June 1. Agreement was reached with Hong Kong on a temporary restriction of exports to Sweden of certain textiles and clothing. July 25, Imports of certain textiles and cloth- ing from the Republic of China were restricted. NOTE. —The following changes early in 1969: took place January 4. Switching by residents from for- eign securities or Swedish securities denominated in foreign currencies into unlisted foreign secu- rities or into shares or certificates issued by for- eign investment companies or investment funds was prohibited. January 4. The authority of the commercial banks to approve payments in respect of pre- miums for annuity and/or endowment insurance was limited to SKr 10,000 a person for each calendar year. 430 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND1 Exchange Rate System The gold content of the Swiss Franc is estab- lished at 63/310 (= 0.20322 . . .) gram of fine gold. The Swiss National Bank maintains the U.S. dollar rate in a free market between limits of Sw F 4.295 buying, and Sw F 4.45 selling, per US$1. The free market rate on December 31, 1968 was Sw F 4.3020 per US$1. Market rates for other currencies vary between limits which result from combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Switzerland and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned.3 Exchange is controlled in respect of most transactions with eight countries with which Switzerland has bilateral agreements or in respect of which Switzerland has enacted autonomous regulations. Bilateral agreements cover Switzer- land's payments with seven countries or monetary areas;4 Switzerland also controls its payments with one other.5 In accordance with the provisions of several of these agreements, official rates are applied to transactions covered by the agreements. This domain of regulated settlements is known as the sector of controlled payments. All settlements outside this sector (including those with all other countries), as well as certain settlements involving Egyptian pounds which represent compensation for nationalization of Swiss property in the United Arab Republic, may be made freely at free market rates. Foreign banknotes are negotiated freely in Switzerland at rates determined by the interplay of supply and demand. Exchange Control Territory For all purposes of import, export, and pay- ments control, the Principality of Liechtenstein is included in the Swiss customs territory for the 1 Switzerland is not a member of the International Monetary Fund. 2 In view of a change on January 1, 1969 (see note at the end of this su rvey ), this survey presents the position on that date. 3 The above-mentioned upper and lower limits for the U.S. dollar rate have been fixed in accordance with the European Monetary Agreement (EMA ), of which Swit- zerland is a member. Since all other member countries of the EMA have done likewise, corresponding upper and lower limits are also operative in respect of the rates for the Swiss franc in terms of the other EMA currencies. 4 Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and United Arab Republic. 5 Eastern Germany, including East Berlin. duration of the treaty of March 29, 1923 between Switzerland and the Principality of Liechtenstein concerning the union of the Principality of Liech- tenstein with the Swiss customs territory.6 Administration of Control The authority to impose measures for the con- trol of imports, exports, and payments is vested in the Swiss Federal Council acting, as a rule, on the proposals of the Federal Department of Public Economy or the Federal Political Department. The Swiss National Bank is the executive authority in matters of currency, and the Swiss Compensation Office, together with the authorized banks, is entrusted with the operative part of payments control. Prescription of Currency The currency and manner of settlement on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles in the sector of controlled payments (see section on Exchange Rate System, above) are prescribed in accordance with the provisions of the relevant payments agreements and/or by the Swiss regula- tions. Settlements with countries in this sector are made in Swiss francs; however, certain settlements with the United Arab Republic may be made in Egyptian pounds through special accounts main- tained by the Swiss Compensation Office at the Central Bank of Egypt, and certain settlements with Cuba must be made in Swiss francs to the debit or credit of a special account at the Swiss National Bank. In all other cases, settlements are not subject to regulations involving prescription of currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts related to the sector of controlled payments may be grouped as follows: ( 1) accounts related to Bulgaria, Cuba, Czecho- slovakia, Hungary, Poland, and Ruman ia, which are centralized with the Swiss National Bank, and (2) the "decentralized" accounts, comprising those which may be held with the Swiss National Bank and with authorized banks in Switzerland. 6 For purposes of capital control, however, certain jur id ical persons or companies domicilied in the Princi- pa l i ty of Liechtenstein are considered as nonresidents. 431 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND The accounts of the second group are of two kinds: the accounts of Eastern Germany, which are transferable only to other accounts of the same nationality, and the accounts of the United Arab Republic, which are subject to special treatment. Nonresident accounts concerned with transac- tions outside the sector of controlled payments— mainly those related to countries not listed above —may be transferred freely among themselves. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia require a license; licenses are not granted in excess of the average volume of imports for 1964, 1965, and 1966. With a few exceptions, imports into Switzerland from other countries may be made freely. The only commodities subject to license irrespective of their origin are certain agricultural products. Import permits for goods still under license are, in general, granted freely, but global quotas are established for certain agricultural products. Settlements are made automatically for autho- rized imports from countries to which the Swiss control regulations are applicable, i.e., the sector of controlled payments. Payments for imports from all other countries may be made freely through the free market. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely; however, payments to Eastern Germany (includ- ing East Berlin) and countries with which Switzer- land has bilateral payments agreements are con- trolled.7 The export of Swiss and foreign banknotes is free. Travelers may not take out more than Sw F 10 in Swiss silver coins that are legal tender. Exports and Export Proceeds The export (including re-export) of some goods is subject to export control through individual licenses. This export licensing system is operated in part with the assistance of appropriate trade organizations. Export proceeds received through the sector of controlled payments are converted into Swiss currency in observance of the existing 7 Payments to Cuba are controlled only insofar as they relate to the Cuban-Swiss agreement on indemnification for nationalized property. 432 regulations. Other export proceeds are disposable. freely Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles received through the sector of controlled payments are converted into Swiss francs in observance of the existing regula- tions. Proceeds received in convertible currencies are freely disposable. The import of Swiss and foreign banknotes is free. Capital Transfers of capital from countries in the sector of controlled payments require licenses if they are made through the sector of controlled payments; transfers of capital to such countries do not require licenses. Transfers of capital to and from other countries may be made freely, with the exception of certain outgoing transfers exceeding Sw F 10 million each, which require permission; these include foreign issues in Switzerland of bonds denominated in Swiss francs and direct participa- tions by Swiss banks in Euro-bond issues. Purchases of real estate in Switzerland by or on behalf of persons of foreign nationality who are domiciled abroad require approval by the canton where the property is situated. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form at home or abroad; domestic transactions are not subject to any sales or turn- over tax. There is a free gold market in Zurich. Imports and exports of gold in any form by res- idents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license. No customs duties or other charges are levied on exports of gold. Imports of gold in cer- tain forms are subject to customs duty (exempt are bars and certain coins) or sales tax (exempt are coins and bars). Import and export licenses are required for commercial imports and exports of certain articles containing gold; these are issued freely. Changes during 1968 February 12. The veterinary requirements that permitted the import of whole poultry only were amended to permit also the import of poultry parts, provided that these are frozen. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution March 18. The large banks decided to set daily prices for gold bullion in consultation with each other, taking into account supply and demand. They revoked the decision of November 24, 1967 to abstain from forward and credit sales of gold to residents and nonresidents but reconfirmed that of November 27, 1967 not to supply gold to cen- tral banks and other official institutions. March 25. The exportation, melting down, and hoarding of Swiss silver coins that are legal tender was prohibited.8 Travelers could not take out such silver coins in excess of Sw F 10 a person. The exportation of silver and silver alloys was made subject to a special license from the customs administration. SWITZERLAND April 1. Import licenses were required for cer- tain additional types of animal foodstuffs. June 20. The Swiss National Bank raised the ceiling beyond which a foreign loan issued on the Swiss capital market requires its approval from Sw F 5 million to the statutory maximum of SwF 10 million. August 3. A new import regime for cheese went into effect. December 1. Imports of butter were resumed. NOTE. —The following change took place early in 1969: 8 The prohibition of hoarding was abolished, however, on February 19, 1969. January 1. The clearing arrangement with Yugoslavia was terminated. 433 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System On July 29, 1947, a par value for the Syrian Pound was established by Syria with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. There are two exchange markets, the official or "export exchange" market and the free or "parallel" market with a fluctuating rate. The official rates are LS 3.80 buying, and LS 3.82 selling, per US$1. The free market rates on December 31, 1968 were about LS 4.20 per US$1. The supply in the official market consists mainly of the proceeds of major exports and of oil royal- ties received by the Government. The official mar- ket rate applies to all major exports;1 to imports of essential consumer goods, basic raw materials, and capital equipment for Syrian industries; to invisibles related to trade settled through the offi- cial market, most remittances for study abroad, and remittances for servicing government debt; and to capital transactions by the Government. The free market rate applies to all other transac- tions, including all merchanting trade and all imports by parcel post. Moreover, importers with bills overdue for any period of time are from time to time permitted to purchase exchange in the free market to settle their obligations. The Commercial Bank of Syria charges a com- mission of %0 of 1 per cent on sales or purchases of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Policy with regard to imports and exports is determined by the Government through the Minis- try of Economy and Foreign Trade, usually on the suggestions of the Exchange Office, which works under the general directives of the Foreign Exchange Commission. Under an agreement between the Central Bank of Syria and the Admin- istrative Committee of the Exchange Office, all transactions of the Exchange Office are carried out 1 Crude petroleum, mineral oils, asphalt, raw and tanned leather, wood, iron and steel scrap, copper scrap, cotton yarn, wheat, barley, corn millet, chick peas, lentils, raw wool, raw cotton, cotton oil, cottonseed, cotton cake, sorghum, corn, sesame, tobacco, wheat flour, oleaginous grains and fruits, olive oil, peanut oil, linseed oil, sugar, and certain other agricultural products. 434 through the Central Bank. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade, and exchange licenses for all import pay- ments, invisibles, and capital transactions are issued by the Exchange Office. Certain trade or exchange transactions require in addition the prior approval of a special Foreign Exchange Commis- sion established in the Central Bank. Authorized commercial banks deal in foreign exchange both in the official and the free market. They open letters of credit or accept bills for collection only with the prior approval of the Exchange Office. At present there is only one authorized bank, the Commercial Bank of Syria. Prescription of Currency The Exchange Office is empowered to prescribe the currencies to be obtained for exports. The usual requirement is that proceeds of exports to all countries except those with which Syria has bilat- eral payments agreements - be obtained in the cur- rency of the country to which the goods are exported, if it is an "acceptable" currency,3 or in any other convertible currency, at the exporter's choice. Proceeds from exports to neighboring countries may be obtained in the currencies of those countries. Prescription of currency require- ments are not applied to outgoing payments. All payments to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in Syrian pounds may be held by nonresidents 4 and may be credited with the proceeds of foreign currencies sold to the authorized banks and with payments for goods. They may be debited to pay for Syrian exports to the country of the account holder or, with the prior 2 Syria has bilateral payments agreements with Bul- garia, Ceylon, mainland China, Cuba, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, Spain, United Arab Repub- lic, and U.S.S.R. 3 "Acceptable" currencies are those for which the Exchange Office quotes rates: Belgian francs, deutsche mark, Egyptian pounds, French francs, Iraqi dinars, Italian lire, Jordan dinars, Lebanese pounds, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swiss francs, Turkish liras, and U.S. dollars. 4 Residents are defined as including all physical persons of Syrian nationality, irrespective of domicile, and all persons who have been living in Syria for more than a year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution approval of the Exchange Office, to other coun- tries, and for expenses in the Syrian Arab Repub- lic. Transfers abroad from these accounts require the prior approval of the Exchange Office, which is granted freely. Nonresidents may also keep accounts in foreign currencies, but only if these accounts result from an inflow of capital. Transfers from these accounts are made freely. Temporary resident accounts may be opened in the name of non-Syrians in neighboring countries who do not reside permanently in Syria. Imports and Import Payments Imports of commodities originating in Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa are prohibited. Many basic commodities (including green coffee, tea, rice, tobacco, salt, paper, iron and steel, and trac- tors) are only imported by state trading agencies (ma in ly the Import and Export Company of the Public Sector —SIMEX), or for their own account, by certain other official agencies. Imports are divided into three main categories: ( 1) imports prohibited by decree and specified in a Prohibited List, which comprises some 60 tariff items— mostly goods that are produced domestically, including some textile products; ( 2) imports on a Restrictive List, which comprises some 160 tariff items of less essential goods which are temporarily not admitted either for balance of payments rea- sons or for protective reasons; and (3) all imports not included in the above two lists and which are authorized on their merits. Certain restricted imports may be acquired in payments agreement countries through compensation transactions involving the export of Syrian industrial products. Virtually all imports must be made direct from the country of origin, without the intermediary of any firm conducting a business established outside Syria; the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade has the authority, however, to permit certain goods to be imported from countries other than the coun- try of origin. All permitted imports, except those made by SIMEX, require individual import licenses before the placing of orders. SIMEX may conclude import transactions and have the goods shipped before an import license is granted; the license must be obtained, however, before customs clear- ance. Goods included in the Restrictive List may be imported only under certain conditions of domestic need, under special individual license SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC from the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade, and with the prior approval of the Ministry of Industry or the Ministry of Supply. Certain imports (not on the Restrictive or Prohibited Lists) from Iraq, Kuwait, Jordan, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Republic are not subject to license, in accordance with the Arab Common Market Agreement or the bilateral agree- ments of Syria with some of these countries. These imports include agricultural commodities, live- stock, and some industrial products. Retailers may import, with payment through the free market, most commodities whose importation is not prohibited, provided that the goods enter the country as parcel post valued at not over LS 250 and that a retailer does not receive the same commodity more often than once a fortnight. There is a tax of 2 per cent on the issue of import licenses, except for government imports and imports of certain essential items, including raw materials, petroleum, and petroleum products. In addition, there are the following taxes on imports which are collected by the customs: (1) a statistical tax of 4 per cent, (2) a consumption tax of 4 per cent for all imports for which the tariff rate is more than 1 per cent, ( 3) a defense tax of 15 per cent of the ta r i f f, (4) a school tax of 10 per cent of the consumption tax plus 2 per cent of the ta r i f f, ( 5) a harbor tax of 3 per cent of the tariff for goods transferred by ships through Syrian har- bors (most commodities can be imported only through Syrian harbors), and (6) an ocean tax of %0 of 1 per cent of the value of imports for all goods transferred by ship in any harbor, including those of neighboring countries. Exchange licenses are required to make import payments. Payments for imports may be made by opening letters of credit, time drafts, bills for col- lection, or by crediting a nonresident account or a temporary resident account. The importer submits to the Commercial Bank of Syria the import license and the pro forma invoice which, in turn, are submitted by the bank to the Exchange Office for approval; this is granted according to the avail- ability of exchange. However, the allocation of exchange for specified less essential imports, and the opening of letters of credit for those imports, requires the prior approval of a Foreign Exchange Commission that was established in the Central Bank in July 1967. Import licenses prescribe which 435 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC exchange market must be used; when a documen- tary letter of credit is opened, the Exchange Office has the authority to prescribe the use of free market exchange even when the import license specifies payment through the official market. A f ter approval is granted, the Commercial Bank of Syria opens the letters of credit or accepts the bills for collection. Specified imports, mainly essential consumer goods, basic raw materials, and capital goods for Syrian industries may be financed through the official m a rk e t ;5 all others must be financed through the free market. For imports financed through the official market, the Exchange Office distinguishes ad hoc between essential and less essential goods; exchange for the former is provided more promptly than for the latter. The issuance of authorizations for the purchase of offi- cial and free market exchange for certain cate- gories of imports is delayed for periods of several months. However, importers with overdue bills are from time to time permitted, subject to approval by the Administrative Committee of the Exchange Office, to purchase exchange in the parallel market to settle their obligations. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to trade effected at the official rate, for servicing government debt, and for most study abroad 6 may be made at the official market rate. Commissions due to nonres- ident intermediaries are nontransferable and pay- able in Syrian pounds only. The insurance for imports under documentary credit must be effected locally. All other payments for invisibles must be made through the free market. Residents traveling abroad may take with them foreign exchange purchased at the free market rate as follows: for travel to Lebanon, the equivalent of LS 50 a trip; for travel to other Arab countries and Turkey, the equivalent of <£ stg. 50 a trip; and for travel to other countries, the equivalent of £ stg. 125 a trip. For children under ten years of age, the allowances are 50 per cent of these amounts. Fixed allocations at the free market rate also exist for other invisibles, as follows: 60 per 5 All commodities are payable at the free market rate when shipped from Cyprus, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, or the Gulf States, but originating elsewhere. 6 Remittances to students in Lebanon studying non- scientific subjects are made at the free market rate. 436 cent of the salaries received by foreign technicians and experts employed in the Syrian Arab Repub- lic; 50 per cent of the salaries of personnel of for- eign diplomatic and international missions in the Syrian Arab Republic; up to LS 3,000 a stock- holder a year for dividends accruing to nonres- idents from Syrian securities; and LS 250 a person a month for private donations and charities. In all cases, applications for additional amounts must be submitted for approval to the Exchange Office. Nonresidents leaving the country are permitted to take out foreign exchange and Syrian currency within the limit of the declaration they have made when entering the Syrian Arab Republic; the amount of Syrian currency taken out may not exceed LS 100. For additional amounts, the approval of the Exchange Office is required. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of wheat, cotton, cottonseed, barley, and their derivatives are nationalized and are made by the Cereals Office or the Cotton Authority. Exports of certain other commodities are also reserved for government agencies. Exports of a few goods to any country and all exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Exports of the main export products and of all goods of foreign origin require licenses. For all other exports, licenses are not required. For all private exports, however, a repatriation commit- ment must be executed in which the exporter undertakes to bring the proceeds to Syria and sur- render them to the Exchange Office within six months after the date of export. The proceeds of all major exports (see footnote 1) must be sur- rendered at the official buying rate. The proceeds of other exports must be surrendered by sale at the free market rate. Proceeds from exports to certain neighboring countries may be accepted in banknotes of the country concerned; these countries are Cyprus, Iran, Kuwait, Turkey, Yemen, Southern Yemen, and the Gulf States. Exports of cotton are subject to an export tax of 12% per cent ad valorem. All exports of agri- cultural products (including cotton) are subject to an ad valorem agricultural tax of 10 per cent. All the above taxes are collected by the customs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles, including tourism and the local expenditures of oil companies (but not royalties), may be sold in the free market. Non- residents entering the Syrian Arab Republic are permitted to bring in unlimited foreign exchange in any form, provided that they present a written statement of the amount upon entry; this statement is required only when the traveler intends to take out the foreign exchange he brought in. Nonres- idents are permitted to bring in not more than LS 100 in Syrian currency. Capital Imports of capital in the form of foreign exchange are free for residents and nonresidents and may be effected through the free market. The export of capital requires the approval of the Exchange Office; if approved, it must be effected through the free market. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold in Syria without restriction. The domestic negotiation of gold takes place at free market prices that are in line with world free market prices. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry normally require licenses. These licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade. Import licenses for gold to be worked and re- exported are granted freely; otherwise the issuing of licenses is restrictive. Changes during 1968 January 1. Decree No. 713 of November 13, 1967 exempted specified commodities originating in Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, or the United Arab Republic from all existing import prohibitions and quota restrictions. Exports of specified Syrian commodities to these countries were also freed from quantitative restriction. January 20. A wide range of commodities was added to the list of those exempt from the require- ment of prior approval by the Special Foreign Exchange Commission. However, commodities in this list, as well as those listed in the notice of July 13, 1967, required import licenses granted by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade. SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC February 1. Imports from the Federal Repub- lic of Germany, the United Kingdom, and the United States were required to be made on an f.o.b. basis and to be shipped on vessels of a friendly country. With effect from February 27, the relevant decree was amended to permit c.i.f. contracts, provided that the goods were not carried by ships of one of the three countries mentioned. February 8. The Commercial Bank of Syria was authorized to accept proceeds from exports to the following neighboring countries in the form of banknotes: Cyprus, Iran, Kuwait, Turkey, Yemen, Southern Yemen, and the Gulf States. If more than one month elapsed between exportation and the surrender of banknotes, the approval of the Exchange Office was required to accept them. February 8. The export and import of sun- flower seeds were reserved for the nationalized vegetable oil company. February 24. The customs authorities were charged with verifying that imports met all trade and exchange control regulations. It was not nec- essary to submit bills of lading or invoices for imports made without transfer of exchange abroad; overland imports from certain neighboring countries (Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, and the Gulf States) were also exempt. February 24. Imports of agricultural machinery were temporarily permitted. March 9. The import of whisky was reserved for two nationalized firms. March 9. Exports of cotton waste and lint were reserved for two nationalized companies. March 28. Certain cotton textiles were tem- porarily removed from the list of suspended imports. April 18. Certain types of synthetic yarn were removed from the list of suspended imports; how- ever, their importation was reserved for SIMEX. May 18. A wide range of commodities was added to the list of imports for which the granting of an import license and the opening of documen- tary credit did not require prior approval by the Special Foreign Exchange Commission. May 23. Imports of certain types of yarn were exempted from the tax on import licenses. 437 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC July 4. A new public sector organization called Foreign Trade Corporation for Machinery, Motor Vehicles, and Parts was established. Authority to import the relevant goods was transferred to it from SIMEX. July 4. Pearls were removed from the list of suspended imports. July 9. Export proceeds were required to be surrendered to the Exchange Office within six months after the date of shipment. July 9. Proceeds from exports of timber and raw ju te could be surrendered at the free market rate. July 9. A Handicrafts Corporation was estab- lished to promote exports of handicrafts and to import the necessary raw materials. July 25. Imports shipped from certain neigh- boring countries (Cyprus, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, and the Gulf States) were made subject to the free market rate if they originated elsewhere. July 25. Remittances to students in Lebanon studying nonscientific subjects were made subject to the free market exchange rate. July 30. The trade and payments agreements with Bulgaria, signed on April 21, came into effect. July 31. Proceeds from exports of fennel seeds had to be surrendered at the official exchange rate. August 8. A tax at a rate varying between 2 per cent and 5 per cent was imposed on all overland imports. Also a tax varying between LS 10 and LS 100 was imposed on trucks at each crossing of the Syrian border. Only vehicles of the Syrian Ministry of Communications were exempted. These two taxes ceased to be applied to goods arriving from or through Lebanon after the signa- ture on October 8 of an agreement with that country. September 19. Proceeds from exports of certain offal were to be surrendered at the free market exchange rate. October 16. Order No. 756 established that, with effect from January 1, 1969, imports and exports of unprocessed agricultural, livestock, and mineral products to and from the other countries of the Arab Common Market would be free from restrictions. It also listed the industrial products that would be freely importable from or exportable to these countries. October 21. Order No. 764 confirmed that for- eign currency could not be transferred in payment of imports, nor an import letter of credit opened, before the Exchange Office had approved the import license or, for goods not requiring a license, Form A. These rules did not apply to parcel post. October 24. Proceeds from exports to Lebanon of certain offal were to be surrendered at the offi- cial rate. November 27. Order No. 853 terminated the suspension of imports of woolen blankets, printing machinery, office machinery, record players, rec- ords, dictaphones, and household electrical appliances. 438 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA 1 Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.124414 gram of fine gold per Tanzania Shilling or T Sh 7.14286 = US$1. There is a fixed relationship between the Tan- zania shilling and the pound sterling at £1 = T Sh 17.1429. The Bank of Tanzania deals with the Government in sterling at this parity rate. In transactions with authorized banks, the Bank of Tanzania stands ready to issue Tanzania shillings in exchange for sterling and to supply sterling in exchange for Tanzania shillings; its buying and selling rates for sterling in such transactions d iffer from the rate of <£! = T Sh 17.1429 by %2 and 1/16 per cent, respectively. In transactions with the public the authorized banks buy and sell sterling at rates differing from the rate of «£ 1 = T Sh 17.1429 by 3/16 and y2 per cent, respec- tively. The Bank of Tanzania deals with the Gov- ernment and with authorized banks in Kenya and Uganda shillings against Tanzania shillings at par; the authorized banks also deal with the pub- lic in these currencies at par. East African shil- lings, which are being withdrawn from circulation, may be exchanged at par by holders in Tanzania at all commercial banks. The Bank of Tanzania quotes buying and selling rates for various non- Sterling Area currencies 2 for transactions with authorized banks which are based on the parity rate for sterling and the rates in the London market. The National Bank of Commerce carries out forward exchange contracts with importers and exporters. Such contracts for periods exceeding three months require the approval of the Bank of Tanzania. The National Bank of Commerce may cover its net forward purchases position with the Bank of Tanzania. Banks in Tanzania base their rates for curren- cies other than sterling, Kenya shillings, and Uganda shillings on the Bank of Tanzania's quo- tations or, if there is none, on current market rates in London. 1 In view of changes that took place on January 23, 1969 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position on that date. 2 These currencies are Belgian francs, Canadian dol- lars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Administration of Control The Minister for Finance has delegated the administration of exchange control to the Bank of Tanzania. Authority for approving nor- mal import payments, many payments in respect of current invisibles, and some capital payments to countries other than Kenya and Uganda is delegated to the authorized banks. Payments from Tanzania to Kenya and Uganda are free of restrictions. On the mainland, import and export control is administered by the Controller of Imports and Exports in the Ministry of Commerce and Indus- try. The responsibility for issuing specific import and export licenses rests with the Controller, to whom applications should be submitted by the importer or exporter in Tanzania before orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. Import applications for some commodities, however, must be submitted to the State Trading Corpora- tion or require the endorsement of another state trading agency, i.e., the Cooperative Supply Asso- ciation of Tanganyika (COSATA), the Interna- tional Trading and Credit Company of Tan- ganyika ( I N T R A T A ), or the National Agricultural Products Board (NAPB ). Zanzibar administers an independent system of foreign trade controls; all imports and the principal exports are made by state trading agencies (Bizanje and the Zanzibar State Trading Corporation). Prescription of Currency Tanzania is a member of the Sterling Area and maintains prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom; all settle- ments with Kenya and Uganda, however, must be effected in Kenya, Uganda, or Tanzania shillings. Payments to residents of countries in the Sterling Area other than Kenya and Uganda may be made in Tanzania shillings to the credit of a Sterling Area Account in Tanzania or in any other Ster- ling Area cu r rency ;3 receipts from such countries must be obtained in Tanzania shillings from a Sterling Area Account in Tanzania or in any other Sterling Area currency. Authorized pay- ments, including payments for imports, by resi- 3 With the exception that personal remittances to resi- dents of India and Pakistan must be made in the cur- rency of the beneficiary's country of residence. 439 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA dents of Tanzania to residents of countries out- side the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling to an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Tanzania shillings to the credit of an External Account in Tanzania, or in any other non-Sterling Area currency except Rho- desian pounds that is appropriate to the country of residence of the payee. Receipts from countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be obtained in sterling from an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Tanzania shillings from an External Account in Tanzania, or in any other specified currency 4 that is not a Sterling Area currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Remittances to South Africa are prohibited, with the exception of those for pensions payable by the Government of Tanzania or by the East African Community organizations. Nonresident Accounts Sterling Area Accounts are held by residents of other Sterling Area countries except Kenya and Uganda. They may be credited freely with all authorized payments to such Sterling Area coun- tries by Tanzanian residents, with transfers from other Sterling Area Accounts, and with the pro- ceeds from sales to an authorized dealer in Tan- zania of pounds sterling or any other Sterling Area currency (except Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, or East African shillings) by residents of any other country in the Sterling Area except Kenya and Uganda. They may be debited freely for pay- ments for exports to other countries in the Ster- ling Area except Kenya and Uganda and other payments due by residents of other countries in the Sterling Area except Kenya and Uganda to Tanzanian residents, for payments to residents of other countries in the Sterling Area except Kenya and Uganda for any purpose, for transfers to other Sterling Area Accounts in Tanzania, for purchases of any Sterling Area currency, and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in Tanzania. Provided that the permission of the appropriate exchange con- trol authorities in a Sterling Area country other than Kenya or Uganda has been obtained, Ster- ling Area Accounts may exceptionally be debited for transfers to External Accounts in Tanzania or elsewhere in the Sterling Area, and for purchases in Tanzania of any non-Sterling Area currency or gold from an authorized dealer. Accounts in Tanzania shillings held by resi- dents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia with authorized banks in Tan- zania are, with exchange control approval, desig- nated External Accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments to such countries by residents of Tanzania, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any non-Sterling Area currency (other than Rhodesian pounds) and gold by non- residents of the Sterling Area to authorized dealers. Provided that the permission of the appropriate exchange control authorities in a Sterling Area country other than Kenya or Uganda has been obtained, External Accounts may also be credited with transfers from Sterling Area Accounts. They may be debited freely for pay- ments to residents of the Sterling Area, for trans- fers to other External Accounts in Tanzania or in any other Sterling Area country, and for pur- chases of non-Sterling Area currencies from authorized dealers. Nontransferable funds of residents of countries other than Kenya and Uganda are credited to Blocked Accounts. Subject to prior approval, bal- ances on Blocked Accounts belonging to emi- grants may be used for the purchase in Tanzania of specified bonds and shares issued in Tanzania;5 the redemption proceeds of certain government bonds so acquired are transferable beginning five years from the date of purchase. Subject to indi- vidual permission, such balances may also be used for payments to residents not related to export transactions. Transfers between Blocked Accounts in Tanzania, and to Blocked Accounts in Kenya and Uganda, require prior approval. 4 The specified currencies are listed as follows: Aus- trian schillings, Belgian francs, Burmese kyats, Canadian dollars, Danish and Faroese kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Span- ish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and all Sterling Area currencies other than Kenya shillings, Tanzanian shillings, Uganda shillings, and East African shillings. Imports and Import Payments Some imports to the mainland from all sources are prohibited for reasons of health or security. 5 The securities must be payable in Tanzanian shillings and must not be redeemable earlier than five years from the date of acquisition. 440 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Certain other imports are not being licensed. Some goods are imported by state trading agencies only. Most imports from Kenya and Uganda are unre- stricted but some require a specific license. Spe- cific import licenses are required for some 150 commodities or groups of commodities from First Schedule countries, i.e., Commonwealth coun- tries, GATT countries except Japan, and coun- tries with which bilateral trade agreements are in fo r c e ;6 other goods from these countries may be imported without licenses. All imports from other countries, including Japan, require a specific license. All imports to the mainland from Zanzi- bar require a specific license when the goods originate outside Zanzibar. All imports from South Africa, metropolitan Portugal, and Rho- desia are prohibited. Imports of Japanese goods are not licensed unless they are considered to assist the country's industrial development or are otherwise regarded as beneficial. All imports into Zanzibar are made by government agencies. Transfer taxes ranging from 7 to 100 per cent of the c.i.f. value are levied on a range of manu- factured goods when imported f rom and originat- ing in Kenya. For some of these commodities, the tax is applicable also when they are imported from and originate in Uganda. When the importer has obtained a license from the Controller of Imports and Exports, or if the transaction is covered by an open general license, exchange is provided automatically by an autho- rized bank upon application and submission of the necessary documentary evidence. Payments more than six months in advance of shipment, as well as most imports financed by suppliers' credit, require individual exchange control approval. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Kenya and Uganda are controlled. Autho- rized banks are empowered to approve specified categories of current payments up to established limits; amounts above these limits may be approved administratively, and most current pay- ments are in fact unrestricted. There is a basic allowance for travel to coun- TANZANIA tries outside the Scheduled Territories7 of T Sh 4,000 a person every 3 years for persons aged 12 or older; half of this amount is available to children aged 3 to 12 years. Travelers to desti- nations in Burundi, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Malawi, Mozambique, Rwanda, and Zam- bia are restricted to T Sh 1,000 a year or T Sh 200 a day for up to ten days, whichever is the greater. Travelers proceeding direct to Kenya or Uganda may export any amount in Kenya, Tanzania, or Uganda banknotes. Travelers to destinations outside Kenya and Uganda may take out up to T Sh 250 in such notes. Nonresi- dent travelers may take out travelers checks or letters of credit up to the amount they brought in upon entry. Facilities exist whereby immigrant noncitizens working in Tanzania under contract in salaried employment and with a firm commitment to leave Tanzania eventually may throughout their period of employment remit abroad up to 33% per cent of their monthly salary uncommitted to cover fam- ily maintenance, savings, etc. Applications to remit in excess of 33% per cent of salary or in excess of T Sh 3,000 a month are considered on their merits. Specified categories of expatriate employ- ees may remit the total amount of their salaries. Persons making uncommitted remittances under these arrangements are not entitled to emigration facilities (see section on Capital, below). Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa, Portugal, all Portu- guese territories, and Rhodesia are prohibited. On the mainland, exports of products dealt with by state trading organizations and of certain other products are subject to controls and if there is a local shortage may be restricted. Other goods may be exported without license. All principal exports of Zanzibar are sold abroad by the Zanzi- bar State Trading Corporation. Re-exports from Zanzibar are prohibited. Export proceeds must be collected in specified currencies (see footnote 4) within six months 6 The latter are Bulgaria, Burund i, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Federal Republic of Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. 7 Tanzania's exchange control regulations define the Scheduled Territories as Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda. 441 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA from the date of exportation and must be sur- rendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 4) must be sold to an authorized bank upon their collection. Travelers may bring in freely foreign currency notes; the import of Kenya, Tanzania, or Uganda shilling notes must not exceed T Sh 250 in value for each traveler unless arriving direct from Kenya or Uganda, in which case any amount may be brought in. Capital Capital transfers to all countries other than Kenya and Uganda are restricted. Specified capital transfers up to established amounts to all countries other than Kenya and Uganda are approved by authorized banks; all other capital transfers to destinations other than Kenya and Uganda require individual exchange control approval. Persons leaving Tanzania per- manently who have been resident in Tanzania for four years immediately prior to the date of appli- cation and who have not been availing themselves of the facility of making uncommitted remittances of savings may transfer their assets up to the equivalent of T Sh 50,000 for each household if they take up residence in any country other than Kenya or Uganda. All remaining funds must be credited to a Blocked Account or otherwise brought under control; they may then be invested in approved Tanzanian securities or placed on bank deposit. Income from such investments is transferable upon accrual, and redemption pro- ceeds become transferable upon maturity of the securities but not less than five years from the date of purchase. Furthermore, any assets in excess of the initial emigration allowance of T Sh 50,000 may be remittable in five yearly installments of T Sh 20,000 each. There is no restriction on the investment of foreign funds in Tanzania; but to ensure eventual repatriation, it is necessary to obtain a certificate of approved enterprise in terms of the Foreign Investment (Protection) Act, 1963. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of produc- tion require approval under the East African Licensing Ordinance. 442 All imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is freely granted for the pur- chase by nonresidents of Tanzanian securities from residents, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remittable, as may be the proceeds of disinvestment. Purchases of securities outside Kenya and Uganda by residents are not normally permitted. Commercial banks are not permitted to grant overdraft facilities to individuals and companies in order to enable them to make overseas trans- fers. All loans or overdrafts to nonresidents or to nonresident-controlled bodies in any of the Scheduled Territories require exchange control approval. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Tanzania for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and profes- sional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in the form of coin or bullion, at home or abroad. The Bank of Tanzania does not import, export, or hold gold. Imports and exports of gold in the form of coin or bullion require licenses issued by the Bank of Tanzania. Export licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. The import of the following from all sources other than Kenya and Uganda, and from Kenya and Uganda when originating in other countries, is subject to individual licensing: jewelry of gold, silver, or platinum; goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares, including set gems; bullion in the ingot, bar, or sheet; and gold coins. Import licenses for gold jewelry are issued freely; those for gold bullion (ingots, bars, or sheets) and for gold coins are issued to goldsmiths only and are subject, in addition to the Bank of Tanzania's approval, to import licenses issued by the Min- istry of Commerce and Industry. Changes during 1968 During the year, a number of commodities were added to those subject to individual import license when originating from countries other than Kenya and Uganda. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution January 79. The import and export of East African shilling notes by travelers was prohibited. July 19. Government Notice No. 278 revoked Government Notice No. 2441 of December 1, 1967 and subsequent amendments to the Open General License for imports; the notice contained the Open General License for 1968 and included a new list of imports subject to individual licens- ing. September 12. It was announced that coins of the East African Currency Board of any issue or denomination would cease to be legal tender in Tanzania on April 10, 1969. September 16. Remittances to the Republic of South Africa were prohibited, with the exception of transfers of pensions payable by the Govern- ment of Tanzania and the East African Com- munity organizations to persons resident in the Republic of South Africa. September 16. The Bank of Tanzania announced that it would stand ready to deal with the commercial banks in U.S. dollars. September 16. Authorized banks were per- mitted to enter into forward contracts with their customers for purchases and sales of U.S. dollars, on an outright basis, for exports and imports; contracts for over three months required prior exchange control approval. NOTE. —The early in 1969: following changes took place January 23. Revisions of Exchange Control Circulars Nos. 4, 5, 15, and 28 went into effect. The main changes were as follows: ( 1) The basic travel allowance for tourist travel outside the Scheduled Territories was reduced from T Sh 5,000 an adult person a year (T Sh 2,500 for children between 3 and 12 years of age) to T Sh 4,000 (T Sh 2,000 for children between 3 and 12 years of age) once every 3 years. These allocations were inclusive of expenditures for hotel accommodation, car rental, etc., in the countries to be visited. TANZANIA (2) The practice whereby nonresidents work- ing in Tanzania were allowed to remit abroad 50 per cent of their salary and on becoming resi- dents (af ter four years as a nonresident) to con- tinue to remit abroad 20 per cent if they were citizens of a Sterling Area country, was discontin- ued. Instead, only genuine expatriates in Tanzania on a contract and in salaried employment with a firm commitment to leave Tanzania eventually were allowed to make uncommitted remittances. Throughout their period of employment, such persons could henceforth remit through autho- rized banks up to 33% per cent of their salary to any foreign country. Any application for remittance of an amount in excess of this propor- tion or in excess of T Sh 3,000 a month would have to be referred to the exchange control autho- rities. Consequently, permanent residents of Tan- zania, including self-employed noncitizens and noncitizens holding permanent and pensionable employment of an indefinite nature, could not make uncommitted remittances abroad. Expatri- ates making such remittances would no longer be entitled to emigration facilities. (3) A person wishing to emigrate to a country other than Kenya or Uganda was normally allowed to transfer immediately up to T Sh 50,000 for each household (instead of T Sh 100,000 as previ- ously) from his declared assets as a settling-in allowance to any foreign country. In addition, the new regulation extended to non-Sterling Area nationals the right previously reserved to Sterling Area nationals returning to the country of their origin, to transfer funds out of their assets every year af ter their departure; at the same time the max imum yearly amount to be transferred on the anniversary of the date of emigration was reduced from T Sh 40,000 to T Sh 20,000. Five such yearly installments could be remitted and the bal- ance, if any, would be considered for repatriation, provided that it had been invested in approved Tanzanian securities for at least five years. Na- tionals of countries other than Kenya, Tanzania, or Uganda could not avail themselves of these emigration facilities if they had previously made remittances of savings as indicated under (2) above. 443 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0427245 gram of fine gold per Thai Baht or B 20.80 = US$1. There is an Exchange Equalization Fund which limits its oper- ations to spot transactions in U.S. dollars with commercial banks. All incoming exchange must be sold to an authorized agent. All outgoing payments are subject to approval (given automatically for bona fide commercial transactions). As at Decem- ber 31, 1968, the buying and selling rates of the Exchange Equalization Fund for spot exchange transactions with banks in U.S. dollars were B 20.72 buying, and B 20.77 selling, per US$1; the authorized banks' rates were B 20.70 buying, and B 20.85 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Thailand on behalf of the Ministry of Finance; the Bank delegates responsibility for most trans- actions to authorized agents (i.e., authorized banks and authorized companies) and to autho- rized persons. Imports of gold require a license issued by the Ministry of Finance. Certain other imports and a few exports are subject to licensing by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Prescription of Currency There are no special requirements concerning the currency to be used for settlements with for- eign countries; payments are made largely in ster- ling and related currencies or in U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: Transferable Accounts and Blocked Accounts. In principle, transfers of baht to and from nonresi- dent accounts require approval; approval is not required, however, when the account is held for foreign diplomatic entities, international organiza- tions stationed in Thailand, or Thai nationals tem- porarily abroad. Transferable Accounts may be credited with the proceeds from sales of foreign currency and with funds eligible for remittance abroad in foreign currency. Balances on Transfer- able Accounts are convertible into foreign cur- rency at any time and may be debited to pay for exports. Transfers of baht from Blocked Accounts 444 for the purchase of foreign currency, except for certain current payments, are subject to approval by the Bank of Thailand. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities may be imported freely; but import licenses are required for some eight listed commodities, and the import of certain other listed items is prohibited. All imports of goods orig- inating in mainland China are prohibited. Imports of Rhodesian origin require a license from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Imports of tea leaf, tea dust, and coffee are subject to a requirement that the importer purchase a proportionate quan- tity of the same type of goods produced in Thailand. Payments for imports may be approved by authorized banks upon submission of documents; the specific approval of the Bank of Thailand, which is given for all bona fide transactions, is required for advance payments in excess of US$1,400 and for opening revolving letters of credit or letters of credit with an expiry date exceeding nine months. Importers must obtain, in addition to the usual documents, a "certificate of payment" from an authorized agent before imported goods exceeding B 5,000 in value can be cleared through customs; military equipment imported by the Ministry of Defense and certain other minor categories of imports are exempt from this requirement. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require authorization, which is usually given by an authorized bank; exchange is provided freely. Cargo insurance pre- miums due to foreign insurers may be remitted in foreign exchange; if they are paid in baht to an agent or branch office of an insurance company registered abroad, they may be remitted as earned income after taxes. The transfer of profits and dividends is permitted freely by the Bank of Thailand. Apart from foreign travel, family main- tenance abroad, and educational expenses abroad, authorized agents are permitted to approve appli- cations for exchange without supporting docu- ments, provided that each payment does not exceed the equivalent of US$140. For foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution travel, family remittances, and study abroad, the amounts of exchange that an authorized agent may sell are subject to certain maximum limits. For persons traveling abroad, authorized agents may approve exchange allowances not exceeding the equivalent of US$630, or US$40 a day or the equivalent for not more than 90 days, whichever is the greater; for business travel, additional for- eign exchange not exceeding one half of the allow- ance may be obtained in certain cases for enter- tainment expenses. Amounts above these limits are approved by the Bank of Thailand upon veri- fication. No person may take out local currency exceeding B 500 (or B 1,000 for a family travel- ing on one passport) or foreign currency exceed- ing US$140 (US$280 for a family traveling on a single passport) without the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of tin ore, paddy, and rice bran are prohibited and all exports to Rhodesia require an individual license. Certain categories of exports are subject to licensing, irrespective of destination.1 All other commodities may be exported freely, except to Rhodesia. The exporter is required to obtain a "certificate of exportation" from an authorized agent in order to clear the shipment through customs, as follows: for shipments of rice, rice flour, tin, or rubber exceeding B 1,000 in value through any customs station; for shipments of charcoal or wood exceeding B 10,000 in value through certain provincial customs stations; and, with minor exceptions, for other goods exceeding B 5,000 in value through any customs station. This certificate assures repatriation of the export proceeds. Export proceeds must be collected and must be sold to authorized agents within 7 days of receipt; their surrender must take place within 15 days from the date of export if payment is made by letter of credit, 21 days if a sight bill is drawn for collection, or 15 days after the due date of a usance bill, but not later than 3 months after the date of export. Tourists require a "certificate of exportation" to take out articles other than per- 1 Gold, platinum, precious stones, certain fertilizers, live cattle and other specified animals, sorghum, maize, rice and rice products, raw sugar, certain other minerals, brass and copper in certain forms, radioactive materials, salt exported by sea, and Deva and Buddha images and their parts. THAILAND sonal effects with a total value in excess of B 10,000. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold to an authorized agent. No person may bring into Thai- land local currency exceeding B 500 without a permit, and a family traveling on the same pass- port may not bring in more than B 1,000 without a permit. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign notes and coins. Capital All outward transfers of capital, including pre- miums on life insurance policies, by residents or nonresidents are subject to approval. Foreign exchange from inward capital movements must be sold to an authorized agent. Foreign investments in Thailand can be accorded preferential treat- ment under the Industrial Investment Act of February 10, 1962; this treatment includes a guarantee of the transfer abroad of current net earnings and of capital repatriation. The repatri- ation of other capital is considered on the merits of each case. Gold Residents may hold and negotiate domestically gold jewelry, gold coins, and unworked gold. Imports and exports of gold other than jewelry are subject to the following arrangements, unless they are effected by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Commercial imports of gold in any form are restricted and require a license issued by the Ministry of Finance. For gold bullion, the Ministry fixes an authorized quantity of imports each year; the quota for 1968/69 is 240,000 troy ounces. A bidding system operates under which the importer offering the highest premium by ten- der is awarded a license as sole importer of the authorized quantity. In addition to this premium, which accrues to the Government, the importer is required to pay to the Ministry of Finance a fee at the rate of US$1.75 per troy ounce of gold. The fee is payable in baht at the par value. Exports of gold bullion are prohibited, while those of gold ornaments exceeding B 5,000 in value require a certificate of exportation in addition to the export entry, for presentation to the customs, but bear no export duty or taxes. The conveyance 445 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND of gold in transit is not restricted and is free of customs charges. Changes during 1968 January 4. The prescribed ratio between imported and domestically purchased tea was changed from 15 per cent to 25 per cent. January 16. The importation of foreign cur- rency did not require prior approval under the following circumstances: ( 1) Commercial banks could bring into the country, by whatever means, foreign currencies not exceeding US$10,000 (or its equivalent) a month. Previously, the maximum amount was the equivalent of either US$9,800 or «£ stg. 3,500. (2) Each traveler entering through the port of Bangkok was permitted to bring in with him foreign currencies not exceeding US$1,200 or its equivalent (compared with US$1,120 or <£ stg. 400 previously). Travelers entering through other ports were permitted to bring US$600 or its equivalent (compared with US$560 or £ stg. 200 previously). For a family traveling on a single passport, the maximum amount of US$1,200 or its equivalent was permitted irrespective of the port of entry. ( 3) Nonbank persons were per- mitted to bring into the country by mail foreign currencies not exceeding US$300 or its equivalent at a time (previously, US$280 or <£ stg. 100). February 27. Imports of specified cotton tex- tiles and cotton yarn were exempted from import licensing. February 29. Exports of natural rubber were freed from licensing. March 1. Exporters of rice were required to sell to the Rice Reserve Committee, at a price fixed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, 5 per cent of the quantity that they were allowed to export. The requirement was revoked on June 1. March 4. The amount of maintenance allow- ances that authorized banks could freely remit on behalf of residents to families or relatives abroad of nationality other than Thai was increased as follows: for remittances to Europe or the United States from US$140 to US$200 for each remitter or recipient a month, and for remittances to other countries from US$98 to US$150 for each remit- ter or recipient a month. The maintenance allow- ances that Thai citizens could remit freely to their 446 families of Thai nationality on pilgrimage to Mecca was also increased from US$98 to US$150 for each remitter or recipient a month. March 7. The total amount of foreign bank- notes and coins that could be brought into Thai- land by transit travelers was increased from US$1,120 to US$1,200. June 1. Restrictions on rice exports were sus- pended for June and July; they could be reintro- duced if exports reached 650,000 tons, the ceiling for the period January-July 1968. The suspension was subsequently continued until September 1. June 19. The Foreign Currencies Importation Act, BE 2482 (1939 ), was revoked. As a result, the importation of foreign banknotes and coins ceased to be subject to special or general permis- sion from the Minister of Finance. June 29. The importation of ammonium sul- phate fertilizers and urea fertilizers was made subject to individual licensing and restriction. The restrictions were relaxed on September 17. July 29. The Exchange Equalization Fund increased its selling rate for U.S. dollars from B 20.72 to B 20.77 per U.S. dollar and its buying rate from B 20.67 to B 20.72 per U.S. dollar. August 26. The gold import quota for the year 1968/69 was fixed at 240,000 troy ounces, the same quantity as set for 1967/68. September 2. Exports of rice ceased to be sub- ject to restriction. September 11. Ministerial Regulation No. 14 provided that no person could remit or take out of the country local currency or local securities unless specific permission had been obtained. Spe- cific permission was not required, however, for the following: ( 1) Persons traveling abroad could take out local currency not exceeding B 500 (or B 1,000 for a family traveling on one passport). (2) Persons in transit could take out local cur- rency not exceeding B 500 (or B 1,000 for a family traveling on one passport). (3) Persons in transit could take out local currency and local securities provided that for each the amount taken out did not exceed the amount brought in, or, if no proof of these amounts could be given, the amount specified in ( 2 ). (4) Exportation by post ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND of local banknotes and coins could only be made up to the amount of B 50 for each shipment. paper for printing, writing, or wrapping was exempted from individual licensing. Previously, limitations were imposed only on the export by travelers of local banknotes and coins, but not on their export by mail. The exemp- tions under ( 1 ), ( 2 ), and ( 3 ), however, served to continue existing regulations. October 1. The importation of various kinds of October 1. The prescribed ratio between imported and domestically purchased tea was changed from 25 per cent to 30 per cent. November 7. The importation of certain types of footwear was exempted from individual licensing. 447 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO1 Exchange System No par value for the currency of Togo has been established with the Fund. The unit of cur- rency is the CFA Franc, which is officially main- tained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.2 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Banque Centrale des Etates de TAfrique de TOuest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. The negotiation in Togo of the currency of Guinea is prohibited. Togo's exchange control measures do not apply to ( 1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; (2) the other member countries of the West African Monetary Union (Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, and Upper Vo l ta ); and ( 3) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, the Central African Repub- lic, Chad, Congo (Brazzaville), Gabon, the Malagasy Republic, and Ma l i). Hence, all pay- ments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Togo itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle financial rela- tions only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and Economy, which also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, adver- tising, or sale of foreign securities in Togo, inward and outward direct investment, and the soliciting of funds in Togo for placement in foreign coun- tries. Most of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to autho- 1 In view of changes that took place early in 1969 (see note at the end of this su rvey ), this survey presents the position on February 5, 1969. 2 The CFA f ranc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the com- mon currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Maur i tan ia, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 448 rized intermediaries. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the intermediary of the banks and the Postal Administration, any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions re- lating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Adminis- tration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the Ministry of Com- merce, Industry, Tourism, and Planning, except those for gold, which are granted by the Ministry of Finance and Economy. Prescription of Currency Togo is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area; since the BCEAO maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury, settlements with France (including its Overseas Departments and Territories except that of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those coun- tries—provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Cer- tain settlements with Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Most imports of Rhodesian origin and all imports of Portuguese or South African origin are prohibited. Imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. Imports from all other countries require individual licenses. In principle, the licenses are to be granted in accordance with ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution an import program which is to be established each year and which may include recommendations by a joint French-Togolese Committee, as specified in the Economic Cooperation Agreement with France; as yet, however, an import program has not been established and almost all requests for import licenses from all sources are granted. There are no formal import free lists. The issu- ance of import licenses for printed piece goods of Japanese origin is conditional on the purchase of a quantity of the local product equal to the quan- tity to be imported. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import licenses entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange spot, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a docu- mentary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the commodities have already been imported. Payments for Invisibles Certain payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Trans- fers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. For tourist travel, residents travel- ing to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allo- cation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 50,000 a year for each person (CFAF 25,000 for chil- dren under t en ); any foreign exchange remaining after return to Togo must be surrendered. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 10,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 100,000 a trip, for travel to specified countries3 or CFAF 15,000 a day, sub- 3 These are Algeria, Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Den- mark, Finland, Federal Republic of Germany, Ghana, Greece, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jordan, Lebanon, Libya, Luxembourg, Malta, Morocco, Netherlands, Nigeria, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian A rab Republic, Tunisia, Turkey, United A rab Republic, United Kingdom, and Yugoslavia. TOGO ject to a max imum of CFAF 150,000, for travel to any other foreign country. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in Togo is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 10,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes. Resident travelers must have their purchases and sales of foreign currency marked in a personal foreign exchange booklet (carnet de change). Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry or, if no declaration has been made, up to the equivalent of CFAF 50,000. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to all countries require licenses. Cer- tain exports to Rhodesia and all exports to Portu- gal and South Africa are prohibited. Export pro- ceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Operations Account country must be surrendered. All export transactions relat- ing to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and surrendered within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or the bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. The import of Guinean currency is prohibited. Resident travelers must within eight days sell to an authorized bank any foreign banknotes they bring in. 449 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO Capital Certain capital transfers to Rhodesia are pro- hibited. Capital movements between Togo and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, over the issuing, offering for sale, or introduction of foreign securi- ties in Togo, and over the soliciting of funds in Togo for placing abroad; these controls relate to the transactions themselves not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Togo, the control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, the other member countries of the West African Monetary Union, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account. Foreign direct investments in Togo,4 and Togo- lese direct investments abroad,5 must be declared to the Minister of Finance and Economy when they are being made, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration, during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. The total or partial liquidation of either type of direct invest- ment also requires prior declaration to the Min- ister. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Togolese investments abroad or foreign investments in Togo, must be reported to the Minister of Finance and Economy within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as invest- 4 Inc lud ing those made by companies in Togo that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Togo of foreign companies. 5 Inc lud ing those made through the in te rmed ia ry of foreign companies t h at are d i rec t ly or ind irec t ly con- trolled by persons in Togo and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Togo. 450 ments implying control of a company or enter- prise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, offering for sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Togo requires prior autho- rization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connec- tion with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Togolese Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing or offering for sale in Togo has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in Togo, or by branches or subsidiaries in Togo of juridi- cal persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declara- tion, as indicated above; (2) loans directly con- nected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Togo and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authoriza- tion, and each repayment thereon, must be noti- fied to the Minister of Finance within 20 days, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 500,000 or less. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization, and is restricted. Under the provisions of the general tax legisla- tion, certain fiscal benefits are accorded to speci- fied new investment (foreign and domestic) in both new and existing enterprises. Also, certain enterprises, in accordance with their importance to the economic development of Togo, may be granted by the Government, for a specified num- ber of years, special privileges relating to the maintenance of existing taxes and the exemption ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution from import duties on a large number of items. Such privileges are negotiated by the Government and the investor. An Investment Law (No. 65-10 of July 21, 1965) applicable to both foreign and domestic capital lists the types of enterprises that may be designated as "priority enterprises," provided that the head office is in Togo. Such firms may sign a special founding agreement (convention d'eta- blissement) by which they receive certain tax benefits. Firms that undertake to invest at least CFAF 20 million may receive a guarantee in respect of their taxation over a number of years. The law guarantees the right of free transfer abroad of capital invested in Togo and of all investment income therefrom. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Togo. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Economy, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO and (2) imports and exports of manu fac tu red articles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1968 June 1. Decree No. 68-105 of June 4, by suspending any contrary provisions of Decree No. 67-135 of June 28, 1967, re-established temporary exchange controls in relations with foreign countries. These were defined as all coun- tries other than Togo, France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries. Nonresident accounts in Togo could not be credited with BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, or bank- notes issued by any other institute of issue main- taining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Repatriation and surrender requirements were introduced for proceeds from exports to for- eign countries and proceeds from invisibles. June 5. Decree No. 68-106 created a free trade zone in the port of Lome. June 7. Order No. 194/MFE listed the types of payment to foreign countries that could be TOGO made freely, subject to submission of documen- tary evidence and through an authorized bank or the Postal Administration. It also introduced an exchange allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 100,000 a person a trip for travel to for- eign countries, but not more than a total of CFAF 100,000 in foreign and domestic currency could be taken out. The export by travelers to for- eign countries of the BCEAO banknotes and French banknotes was limited to CFAF 100,000 a person a trip. June 17. The BCEAO issued five Instructions to Authorized Banks for the implementation of Decree No. 194/MFE. September 16. Decree No. 68-166 revoked Decree No. 68-105 of June 4 and the regulations issued for its implementation. This action abol- ished the temporary exchange controls. September 26. By virtue of Decree No. 68-175, the importation and negotiation in Togo of Mali francs ceased to be prohibited. September 26. Decree No. 68-175 amended Decree No. 67-135 of June 28, 1967 by making the soliciting of funds in Togo for placing abroad subject to the prior approval of the Minister of Finance and Economy. November 1. The minimum quantity of locally made printed piece goods that had to be pur- chased in order to qualify for import licenses for such goods of Japanese origin was raised from 50 per cent to 100 per cent of the quantity to be imported. November 25. Circular 23/MFE informed the authorized intermediaries that the exchange con- trols applied from June 1 to September 16 were, with immediate effect, being put into force again. This action re-established exchange control in relations with foreign countries. December 24. Decree No. 68-216 prohibited, except with the prior approval of the Minister of Finance and Economy, all payments and trans- fers by residents to foreign countries, or within Togo, in favor of a nonresident; all imports and exports of gold, means of payment, and securi- ties; and all transactions and transfers leading to the constitution of assets abroad by a resident or to the holding of foreign means of payment in Togo by a resident. All claims on foreign coun- 451 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO tries or nonresidents resulting from exports, earn- ings, or income had to be collected and, where appropriate, surrendered. All import and export transactions relating to foreign countries had to be domiciled with authorized banks. All foreign securities, foreign exchange, and titles embodying claims on nonresidents had to be deposited with an authorized bank, whether they belonged to residents or nonresidents. The provisions of Decree No. 67-135 of June 28, 1967 were sus- pended insofar as they were contrary to those of the new decree. December 24. Decree No. 68-217 submitted to control by the Minister of Finance and Economy all claims and liabilities in CFA francs and in any foreign currency that banks in Togo had vis-a-vis foreign countries. This control could be delegated to the BCEAO (see also January 23 and 28, 1969, below). December 31. Order No. 408/MFE appointed three commercial banks and the Postal Adminis- tration as authorized intermediaries, the latter only for payments that had received prior approval. December 31. Order No. 409/MFE required prior approval to send means of payment, titles to claims or property, and domestic or foreign securities, to a foreign country through the mail or by parcel post. The BCEAO and the autho- rized banks were exempt from this prior approval. December 31. Order No. 410/MFE listed the types of payments that could be made freely, sub- ject to submission of documentary evidence and through an authorized bank or the Postal Administration, to foreign countries. Nonresident accounts in Togo could no longer be credited with BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. All amounts subject to sur- render had to be collected and, where appropriate, sold on the exchange market, within one month of the due date. Such payments could not be collected in banknotes or to the debit of a postal checking account in Togo. The due date for export receipts had in principle to be within 180 days after arrival of the commodities. The order also contained definitions of "foreign countries," "residents," and "nonresidents." Foreign coun- tries were defined as on June 1, above. 452 December 31. Circular No. 1 (later renum- bered as 28) established approval procedures for payments to foreign countries. December 31. The Ministry of Finance and Economy issued Circular No. 2 (later renum- bered as 25) to the authorized intermediaries, concerning Foreign Accounts in Francs and for- eign dossiers for securities. The former were defined as comprising accounts in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. December 31. Circular No. 3 (later renum- bered as 26) established procedures for the domi- ciliation of export transactions relating to foreign countries and for controls over the repatriation of export proceeds. Exporters to foreign countries had to sign a foreign exchange commitment (engagement de change). December 31. Circular No. 4 (later renum- bered as 27) established procedures for the domi- ciliation of import transactions relating to foreign countries and for payments for imports from such countries. NOTE. —The following changes took place early in 1969: January 23. The control over the banks' posi- tion vis-a-vis foreign countries in CFA francs and foreign currencies was delegated to the BCEAO by Order No. 22 bis. January 24. Order No. 23/MFE provided that resident and nonresident travelers could not take out more than CFAF 10,000 in BCEAO banknotes, or the equivalent in French banknotes or banknotes of an institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Imports by resident or nonresident travelers of BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and bank- notes of other Operations Account countries would be free, as would be imports of any means of payment denominated in a foreign currency. Resident travelers had to surrender within eight days any foreign currency they brought in. Non- resident travelers could take out foreign banknotes up to any amount declared upon entry or, if no ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO declaration was made, up to the equivalent of CFAF 50,000. The order also introduced an exchange allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 a person a year for tourist travel by residents to foreign countries (CFAF 25,000 for children under t en ). For business travel, a special allocation was fixed of the equivalent of CFAF 10,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 100,000 a trip, for travel to specified for- eign countries, and the equivalent of CFAF 15,000 a day, subject to a max imum of CFAF 150,000 a trip, for travel to other foreign countries. Resi- dent travelers were required to obtain a personal foreign exchange booklet (carnet de change) in which all purchases and sales of foreign exchange must be marked. January 28. The BCEAO, by Instruction No. 1 to Banks, requested the banks to provide monthly data on their foreign position. For this purpose, all countries other than Togo were to be con- sidered foreign countries. February 5. Circular No. 002/MFE estab- lished fur ther procedures for payments to foreign countries. It established the terms on which for- eign exchange could be purchased forward. This was only allowed for import payments; the facility would not be available, however, until further notice. Spot exchange for import payments could only be purchased under a documentary credit. (Forward cover facilities were announced on April 14.) 453 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.444335 gram of fine gold per Trinidad and Tobago Dollar or TT$2.00 = US$1. The Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago main- tains a fixed official relationship with sterling of TT$4.80 = £,1.* Sterling exchange transactions through the Bank are for amounts of TT$25,000 and above, and these are subject to exchange charges up to a maximum of 1 per cent on inward and outward transfers; at present the rates are % of 1 per cent on outward transfers and %6 of 1 per cent on inward transfers. All other exchange transactions in Trinidad and Tobago are made through authorized banks. Sterling exchange transactions through commercial banks are at present subject to varying exchange charges accord- ing to the amount and mode of transfer. The banks maintain fixed exchange rates of TT$4.80 = <£! and EC$4.80 = <£! (see below) and charge commissions of % of 1 per cent and %6 of 1 per cent, respectively, for sales and purchases of sight drafts, and of % of 1 per cent %6 of 1 per cent, respectively, for sales and pur- chases of telegraphic transfers of less than £50,000. The result is a selling rate of TT$4.812 or EC$4.812 per <£!, and a buying rate of TT$4.779 or EC$4.779 per <£!, for sight drafts. Exchange rates for other convertible cur- rencies are determined daily, on the basis of their closing quotations of the previous day in terms of sterling on the London market, plus or minus the above charges. Notes issued by the East Caribbean Currency Authority (East Caribbean dollars) and the cen- tral banks of Jamaica and Guyana are not legal tender in Trinidad and Tobago, but as a result of an arrangement with the monetary authorities in those areas, the notes are repatriated in return for reciprocity of treatment with respect to notes of the Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago. The East Caribbean dollar, which is issued by the East Caribbean Currency Authority, has a fixed relationship to sterling of EC$4.80 = <£1 .2 This 1 Under Trinidad and Tobago's exchange control regu- lations, foreign currencies are all non-Sterling Area currencies and the South Afr ican rand. 2 The East Caribbean dollar was issued on October 6, 1965 by the East Caribbean Currency Au thor i ty, pur- suant to the East Caribbean Currency Agreement of 454 corresponds to a relationship to the U.S. dollar of EC$2.00 = US$1. Administration of Control The administration of exchange control for pay- ments for invisibles is carried out by the Central Bank acting as agent for the Government; for payments for imports, by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce through its Trade and Commerce Division; and for proceeds from exports, by the Ministry of Finance through its Customs and Excise Division. For payments relating to cer- tain specified invisibles, authority is delegated to authorized banks by the Ministry of Finance. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Trade and Commerce Division of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. The exchange control system provides for com- pulsory surrender of foreign exchange3 and for control over both current and capital transactions. No control is at present exercised over transfers of sterling by residents of Trinidad and Tobago to other parts of the Sterling Area (except South A f r i c a ), but all payments and transfers to coun- tries outside the Sterling Area, to an External Account in the United Kingdom, or to an External Account in Trinidad and Tobago dollars require the approval of the exchange control authorities; payments to Rhodesia are restricted. Short-term credit transactions, such as the granting of credit, loan, or overdraft facilities by resident banks to nonresidents, are also subject to control. Prescription of Currency Trinidad and Tobago is a member of the Sterl- ing Area and maintains prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United King- dom, except in respect of South Africa, which has 1965, to replace the West Indian dollar at par. The East Caribbean dollar is the monetary un it of An t igua, Barba- dos, Dominica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and Grenada; there are no restrictions on the movements of local currency notes between these areas and Trinidad and Tobago. 3 If the business of a trader, firm, or company involves constant receipts and payments in non-Sterling Area cur- rencies, permission is granted for the retention of a por- tion of receipts in a Retained Account, subject to the requ irement that periodic statements of credits and debits to the Account must be submitted to the authorities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution been excluded from Trinidad and Tobago's defini- tion of the Sterling Area. Settlements with resi- dents of other parts of the Sterling Area may be made in Trinidad and Tobago dollars, sterling, or other Sterling Area currencies. Authorized pay- ments, including payments for imports, to resi- dents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account in any other part of the Sterling Area, or by crediting an External Account in Trinidad and Tobago dollars, or in any non-Sterling Area currency. Payments from countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia must be received in sterling from an External Account in any other part of the Sterling Area, or by debiting an Exter- nal Account in Trinidad and Tobago dollars, or in any specified currency.4 Special regulations apply to Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: External Accounts and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts may be opened by commer- cial banks for nonresidents of the Sterling Area. These accounts may be credited with payments by residents of the Sterling Area, approved by the exchange control authorities; with transfers from other External Accounts; and with proceeds from the sale of gold and foreign currency to an autho- rized dealer. They may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area; for transfers to other External Accounts; and for purchases of non-Sterling Area currencies. The funds in these accounts are treated as equivalent to External Account sterling and may be transferred between residents of countries outside the Sterling Area. Blocked Accounts may be credited with funds that may not be credited to External Accounts (e.g., proceeds from the sale by a nonresident of capital assets in Trinidad and Tobago, or proceeds from the sale of sterling securities). The use of balances in Blocked Accounts is subject to autho- rization. Blocked funds may be reinvested in Ster- ling Area securities which are not redeemable 4 These currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Burmese kyats, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche m a rk, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian k rone r, Portuguese escudos, Rhodesian pounds, South A f r ican rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO either optionally or contractually within five years from the date of acquisition. The income from such securities, and the proceeds at maturity of any that are redeemable, are available for credit to an External Account. Permission may be given for funds on Blocked Accounts of persons who have emigrated from Trinidad and Tobago to be remit- ted to the United Kingdom for the purchase of investment currency. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia are prohibited and no licenses are issued for imports from South Africa. Most imports from other countries are free of quantitative restriction. For import control purposes, countries are divided into two groups: (1) Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Czecho- slovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Rumania, Yugoslavia, and the U.S.S.R.; and (2) all other countries, including the United Kingdom but excepting Rhodesia and South Africa. The import regulations include prohibition or stringent control, state trading, individual licens- ing, and open general license. ( 1) The following imports are prohibited or are subject to stringent control: cosmetics, sac- charin, matches manufactured locally under a monopoly granted by the Government to a pri- vate company, coffee and cocoa beans, mechani- cal gambling devices, beer in containers other than ten-ounce glass bottles and cans, and com- plete passenger automobiles. Firearms, ammuni- tion, narcotics, and certain other goods are either prohibited or rigidly controlled for security and health reasons. (2) Imported rice in bulk is the only commod- ity subject to state trading. This rice is normally imported from Guyana under government con- tracts, at agreed prices.5 (3) All commodities other than those specified under ( 1) and ( 2 ), above, are imported under either an individual license or an open general license arrangement. As indicated below, the scope of the arrangement depends on the countries from which the commodities are imported. 5 Packaged rice may be imported through normal com- mercial channels, but such imports are not usua l ly allowed from countries other than G u y a na unless the contracted supplies are not forthcoming. 455 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO (a) Imports from Albania, Bulgaria, main- land China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Rumania, Yugo- slavia, and the U.S.S.R. All imports from these countries require a specific license. In practice, licenses are granted freely for imports from Czecho- slovakia, Poland, and Yugoslavia of commodi- ties not on the "negative'' list mentioned under (b) below. For the other countries in this group, licenses are granted only for essential goods. ( b) Imports from all other countries except Rhodesia and South Africa. For imports from these countries a "negative" list is published, which lists all goods subject to individual licens- ing. (Specific licenses are usually not required for the importation of such goods, however, when they qualify for preferential treatment within the Caribbean Free Trade Association of which Trini- dad and Tobago is a member.) All other goods may be imported under open general license. The "negative" list comprises some 400 tariff items. Licenses for these items may be issued by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, provided that domestic industry is unable to satisfy the demand for the commodity in question. Whenever restrictions are applied on imports from countries other than those under ( a) above, no discrimination is practiced because of the country of origin or the currency involved. Payments for all imports from countries out- side the Sterling Area require an exchange license. If prescription of currency regulations are com- plied with, exchange licenses are granted without restriction or undue delay whenever the authori- ties are satisfied that no unauthorized capital trans- fer is involved. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles originating in the Sterling Area are permitted freely. Those originating outside the Sterling Area require the specific approval of the authorities. Applications for foreign exchange must be supported by appro- priate documentary evidence. As a matter of policy, no restrictions are imposed on payments for current international transactions, except where payments to Rhodesia are concerned. Under authority delegated by the Government, the authorized banks may approve 456 applications for foreign exchange within pre- scribed limits for certain invisibles. When addi- tional amounts are needed, the approval of the authorities is required and this is granted pro- vided that unauthorized capital transfers are not involved. The basic allowance for tourist travel is TT$ 1,200 a person a year. Residents and nonresidents may take out Trini- dad and Tobago notes and/or Sterling Area notes up to the equivalent of <£ 10 (TT$48.00). Travel- ers who are regarded as residents of Trinidad and Tobago may export part or all of their basic travel allowance (TT$ 1,200) in foreign currency notes. Nonresidents visiting Trinidad and Tobago may, on departure, take out foreign currency notes up to the amount brought in by them. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited and no licenses are issued for exports to South Africa. Exports of certain listed goods require an individ- ual license. The list includes some foodstuffs, arms and explosives, animals, gold, and petroleum and petroleum products produced in Trinidad and Tobago, as well as specified products (about 40 tariff items) not produced there. Exports of all other commodities are permitted by an open general license. General licenses have been issued to permit petroleum companies to export without specific licenses. Export proceeds received in currencies other than Sterling Area currencies (including East Caribbean dollars) must be surrendered, but exporters of certain goods, notably petroleum, may be authorized to retain abroad a portion of their proceeds. In practice, the petroleum com- panies operating in Trinidad and Tobago repatriate foreign exchange to the extent of their local cur- rency needs. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from current invisibles received in currencies other than Trinidad and Tobago dollars or Sterling Area currencies (including East Carib- bean dollars) must be surrendered. Insurance, ship- ping, and similar companies operating in Trinidad and Tobago are usually authorized to maintain operating accounts for receipts and expenditures in non-Sterling Area currency which are inherent parts of their businesses. These companies give ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution periodic accounts of their exchange transactions to the authorities. Residents and nonresidents may bring in Trini- dad and Tobago currency notes and/or other Sterling Area currency notes up to the equivalent of <£10 (TT$48.00). Foreign currency notes may be imported freely by residents and nonresi- dents. Capital Capital transfers from Trinidad and Tobago to other countries in the Sterling Area, except South Africa, are permitted freely, but those to countries outside the Sterling Area are closely regulated. However, repayment of commercial credit, gifts, emigration allowances (in limited amoun ts ), and legacies are permitted freely. For transactions in securities, no authorized depositories have been appointed in Trinidad and Tobago, but dealings in securities largely conform in other respects to the practice in the United Kingdom. Restrictions are placed on the import and export of all securities except those entered in a Register in the Sterling Area that is not a Subsidiary Register. Contractual amortization on sterling securities is permitted, and also on mortgages and other loans if the original borrowing occurred prior to September 1939 or was subsequently approved by the exchange control authorities. Proceeds from the sale of securities or other investments owned by nonresidents of the Sterling Area may not ordinarily be transferred and are eligible for credit only to a Blocked Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above); how- ever, approval is often given to residents to pur- chase such assets. Nonresident capital invested in Trinidad and Tobago a f ter January 1950 may be repatriated together with capital gains, provided that the investment has been approved by the Government. Residents may transfer prescribed securities to nonresidents, with the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, provided that the fu ll proceeds of sale are received in non-Sterling Area currency or sterling from an External Account in any other part of the Sterling Area. When securi- ties are sold or redeemed in a market outside the Sterling Area, the proceeds may either be brought TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO in and sold to an authorized dealer at the official market rate of exchange, or, with the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, be invested outside the Sterling Area in similar securi- ties. Purchases of non-Sterling Area securities by residents must be financed with investment cur- rency purchased in the United Kingdom with the concurrence of the Bank of England; such pur- chases are seldom authorized. Nonresidents may sell local securities, provided that the proceeds are credited to a Blocked Account or are reinvested in other local securities which are either irredeemable or not redeemable within five years from the date of purchase. The laws of Trinidad and Tobago do not dis- criminate between nationals and foreigners in the formation and operation of companies in that country. Foreigners are required to obtain a license under the Aliens (Landholding) Ordinance in order to hold interest in real estate or to hold shares in local companies. Prospective foreign investors must obtain approval for their project from the authorities in Trinidad and Tobago in order to be able to repatriate capital and capital gains. The proposed project must satisfy the authorities that it will be either a net earner or a net saver of any currency other than the Trinidad and Tobago dollar (not necessarily the original currency of inves tmen t ), or, alternatively, that if any loss is involved it can be justified in terms of other benefits to the country. Since 1950, the Government has enacted basic incentive legislation designed to attract domestic and foreign investment in manu fac tu r ing and import-substituting industry. This law provides for the gran t ing of certain concessions to indus- tries declared to be pioneer industries, i.e., indus- tries which have not previously existed in Trinidad and Tobago or which are not being conducted on a commercial scale, or any industry for which there are favorable prospects for fu tu re develop- ment. Every pioneer manu fac tu rer is entitled to temporary relief from import duties and taxes and to other privileges. The proceeds (including capital gains) realized f rom part or all of a direct capital investment made a f ter January 1, 1950 by a nonresident of the Sterling Area in an approved project may, if desired, be repatriated at any time. The investment may have been, or may be, made in one or more 457 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO of the following ways: in non-Sterling Area cur- rency or sterling appropriate to the investor's country of residence; in sterling eligible for remit- tance to the nonresident investor; or in goods and services supplied from the country of the investor. This right to repatriate funds is, however, subject to the following conditions. (a) The right will not normally apply to the purchase of shares on a stock exchange unless this purchase formed an integral part of an approved capital investment project. (b) When an investment did not require per- mission under the exchange control regulations, e.g., when it was made through a local branch, the right will be allowed only if the investor obtained exchange control approval of his project at the time the investment was made. There are limitations on the extent to which banks may grant finance to nonresident-controlled local companies. Such companies are normally required to raise any local capital needed to sup- plement their assets by issuing either shares or bonds to residents of Trinidad and Tobago. Gold Gold is defined by the Defence (Finance) Regu- lations, 1942 as gold coin and bullion. The regulations provide that, except with spe- cific exemptions and permissions granted by the Minister of Finance: (1) one party to every trans- action in gold between residents must be an autho- rized bank; ( 2) gold held by residents must be surrendered to an authorized bank; and ( 3) gold may not be taken or sent out of Trinidad and Tobago. Residents are permitted in appropriate cases to purchase, hold, or sell gold coins in Trini- dad and Tobago for numismatic purposes. Control on the import and export of gold is administered by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce by regulations scheduled under the Trade Ordinance, 1958. Imports of gold jewelry are on Open General License, but imports of gold other than jewelry are subject to specific import licenses issued by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce; such licenses are not normally issued except to the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users. Exports of gold, whether jewelry or otherwise, are subject to specific export licenses 458 issued by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce; such licenses for gold other than jewelry are not normally granted except to the monetary authori- ties. Changes during 1968 January 30. All imports from and exports to South Africa required a specific license. Until fu r ther notice no licenses would be issued for such imports and exports. March 15. The Government designated all cur- rencies other than the Trinidad and Tobago dollar as foreign currencies. The authorized banks' licenses to deal in foreign exchange were sus- pended. The Central Bank raised its exchange charge on sales of sterling from % of 1 per cent to 1 per cent. March 19. The suspension of the authorized banks' licenses to deal in foreign exchange was revoked. April 8. Insecticides required a specific import license. April 13. Sterling Area currencies other than the South African rand ceased to be defined as foreign currencies. The Central Bank reduced its exchange charge on purchases of sterling from %6 of 1 per cent to %6 of 1 per cent and its charge on sales of sterling from 1 per cent to % of 1 pe rcen t. May 1. The Agreement establishing the Carib- bean Free Trade Association went into effect. June 24. Cocoa powder, black pepper, and tow- els required a specific import license. October 16. It was announced that licenses would normally not be granted for the importa- tion of cosmetics and motorcars, with the excep- tion of motorcars imported in a completely knocked-down condition. November 20. The pound sterling was desig- nated as a foreign currency. The permission for authorized banks to deal in foreign currencies, including sterling, was suspended. December 1. The authorized banks were again permitted to deal in foreign currencies. December 4. The pound sterling ceased to be defined as a foreign currency. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.69271 grams of fine gold per Tunisian Dinar or D 1 = US$1.90476. The rate of the dinar in relation to the French franc is fixed at D 0.106338 per F I. Buying and selling rates for certain other convertible currencies are fixed daily by the Central Bank, usually on the basis of the rates quoted on the Paris exchange market, i.e., by taking the average of the different rates quoted in Paris and converting it into dinars at the French franc /d inar exchange rate.1 The buying and selling rates of the authorized banks are identical with those of the Central Bank. The rate for the U.S. dollar for settlements under bilateral payments agreements is D 0.525 = US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank of Tunisia, including the authorization of payments for imports and invisibles; some author- ity is delegated to the authorized banks. Trade control is administered by the Trade Division of the Ministry of Planning and National Economy, which establishes import quotas and issues import and export licenses. Both exchange control and import licensing are conducted within the frame- work of an annual foreign exchange budget. Prescription of Currency Tunisia is in the French Franc Area. For pay- ment purposes, countries are classified as follows: ( 1) the French Franc Area coun tr ies ;2 (2) the bilateral group, comprising countries with which Tunisia has concluded bilateral payments agree- ments (Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslo- vakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Ruman ia, the U.S.S.R., the United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia); and ( 3) the area of converti- bility, comprising all other countries. Settlements with countries in the French Franc Area are made in any currency of that Area; with countries in the 1 The Central Bank quotes buy ing and selling rates for the fo l low ing conver t ib le currencies: Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche m a r k, I ta l ian lire, L ibyan pounds, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 France, the 14 countries whose ins t i tu tes of issue m a in t a in an Operations Account w i th the French Trea- sury, and Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia. bilateral group, in clearing dollars with Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, the United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia, in Tunisian dinars with the U.S.S.R., and in Swiss agreement francs with mainland China; and with countries in the area of convert- ibility, generally in convertible currencies quoted by the Central Bank (see footnote 1) or in Tunis- ian dinars through the accounts of residents of those countries. Payments for imports must norm- ally be made, in accordance with the foregoing, on the basis of the country of origin; however, all imports shipped from other countries of the French Franc Area, irrespective of their origin, must be paid for in French francs. Certain com- mercial transactions with India must be settled in Indian rupees. Payments to Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The various types of nonresident accounts are as follows: French Franc Area External Accounts (Comptes Exterieurs-Zone Franc or EZF Accounts) may be held by residents of other parts of the French Franc Area. These accounts are denominated either in dinars or in French francs. Those held in dinars may be credited freely with proceeds from sales of French francs or other convertible currencies (see footnote 1); with transfers f rom other French Franc Area External Accounts; and with transfers from Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars. They may be debited freely for all settlements or transfers effected within the French Franc Area. Accounts held in French francs may be credited freely with French francs transferred by a nonresident to the account holder; with proceeds in French francs from sales to the Central Bank of convertible cur- rencies; and with the proceeds of checks and travelers checks payable either in French francs or in convertible currencies and cashed by the account holder. They may be debited freely for all settlements or transfers effected within the French Franc Area. French Franc Area Internal Accounts (Comptes Interieurs-Zone Franc or IZF Accounts) may be held by physical persons who are residents of other parts of the French Franc Area but who are staying temporarily in Tunisia. These accounts are denominated in dinars. They may be credited 459 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA freely with proceeds from sales of French francs or other convertible currencies; with transfers from other French Franc Area Internal Accounts held by the same person; with earnings, cash dis- tributions under wills, amortization of securities, and proceeds from sales of Tunisian securities, provided that in all cases such funds accrue in Tunisia; and with repayments of loans granted from the same account. They may be debited freely for transfers to another French Franc Area Internal Account held by the same person; for liv- ing expenses in Tunisia of the holder and his fam i ly; for upkeep and supervision of his assets in Tunisia; for purchases in Tunisia, subject to certain conditions, of Tunisian securities; for pur- chases, subject to certain conditions, of Tunisian short-term bonds and paper; and for loans in dinars to residents. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars may be held by residents of countries in the area of convertibility. They may be credited freely with payments for authorized imports from these coun- tries and with proceeds from sales to the Central Bank of convertible currencies. They may be debited freely for payments of any kind to resi- dents of Tunisia and for the purchase of foreign exchange from the Central Bank. Transfers between these accounts and from these accounts to French Franc Area External Accounts and to Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Dinars may be made freely. Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Dinars may be held by residents of countries of the bilateral group. They may be credited freely with payments for authorized imports from these countries, with proceeds from sales to the Central Bank of con- vertible currencies, and with transfers from For- eign Accounts in Convertible Dinars. They may be debited freely for payments to residents of Tunisia. Transfers between Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Dinars related to the same country may also be made freely. Foreign Accounts in Foreign Currencies are used mainly by foreign embassies and by certain nonresident business enterprises in anticipation of investment in Tunisia; funds in these accounts may at any time be transferred to the country of origin. Capital Accounts may be held by residents of any country (including countries of the French 460 Franc Area). The opening of a Capital Account by a nonresident of Tunisian nationality must be authorized by the Central Bank. Foreign banks may also hold Capital Accounts. Capital Accounts may be credited with the proceeds of liqui- dation of foreign investments and other assets with debt repayments and amortization of con- tractual obligations not covered by a retransfer guarantee, with any assets in excess of bank bal- ances up to D 3,500 owned by foreign nationals leaving Tunisia permanently, and with the sales proceeds of agricultural property belonging to nonresidents of French nationality. These accounts may be debited for the purchase of Tunisian securities, participations in companies, real estate, and business concerns; the settlement of expenses arising in connection with the administration of nontransferable foreign assets, as well as personal expenses of the initial account holder; taxes pay- able by the account holder; and the granting of credits to residents. Accounts held by residents of countries outside the French Franc Area may not be debited for personal expenses without authori- zation, while those held by residents of the French Franc Area may be debited freely for the personal expenses of the account holder and of his family up to D 25 a person a week, subject to a limit of D 500 for each account a year. Some of the above operations may be made freely through the inter- mediary of authorized banks, while certain others (e.g., debits resulting from the purchase of busi- ness concerns or securities not admitted to the Tunisian stock exchange and all credits not relat- ing to real estate transactions) require the autho- rization of the Central Bank. Transfers may be made freely between Capital Accounts of coun- tries in the area of convertibility, between those of countries in the French Franc Area, and between those related to the same country in the bilateral group, or from the first-mentioned group to those in the other groups. Internal Accounts of Nonresidents are intended mainly for foreigners staying temporarily in Tuni- sia and gainfully employed there; the opening of these accounts requires the approval of the Cen- tral Bank. Suspense Accounts are used for the purpose of crediting all proceeds accruing to nonresidents in Tunisia which may not be credited to other non- resident accounts either in accordance with a general or an individual license of the Central ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Bank of Tunisia. Suspense Accounts may be debited without the prior authorization of the Central Bank in respect of purchases of Tunisian securities, subscriptions to issues of short-term debentures or bonds, payments to the Tunisian Government or public institutions, and settlement of living expenses incurred in Tunisia by the account holder (provided that he is a resident of the French Franc Area) or his family up to D 25 a person a week and not exceeding D 500 a year for any one family. All other debits of these accounts require the individual authorization of the Central Bank of Tunisia. Imports and Import Payments Imports of some 70 goods from any country (including France and other countries of the French Franc A rea) are "prohibited," but may be authorized by individual license. All imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Certain commodities are imported under state trading. These include goods subject to govern- ment monopolies, e.g., tobacco, matches, playing cards, and imports from the United States under Public Law 480. In addition, certain government agencies, of which the main one is the Office du Commerce, are granted a monopoly over the import of commodities falling within their sphere of activity (coffee, tea, sugar, specified fruits, etc.). Moreover, certain commodities, such as timber, paper, and certain metallurgical products, may be imported only by importers who are members of an importers' association. Imports by such associa- tions and by state agencies are subject to the same licensing arrangements as those applicable to to private imports. Apart from the "prohibited" imports, imports originating in France or other countries of the French Franc Area do not, in principle, require import licenses. The following, which are subject to quantitative restrictions, require individual import licenses, however: (1) imports of some 29 commodities or groups of commodities that are subject to global quotas applicable to all coun- tries, ( 2) imports of commodities for which bilat- eral quotas have been agreed with countries out- side the French Franc Area,3 and ( 3) imports 3 These countries include most European OECD coun- tries, in addition to the countries with which payments agreements are in force (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). TUNISIA from France of goods included in a list agreed upon between the French and the Tunisian authorities and which are subject to quotas appli- cable to France only. Among the goods included in the list are perfumes and cosmetics, wood, leather goods, woven fabrics, certain clothing, jewelry, certain iron and steel products, air condi- tioners, washing and drying machines, motor vehi- cles, and clocks and watches. Payments for imports from France or other countries of the French Franc Area must have prior authorization from the Central Bank; a payments application must be submitted through an authorized bank before purchase contracts are entered into. Such authorization is always granted. When applying for permission to make these payments, importers must declare "on their honor" that they do not have in the French Franc Area financial resources which could be used for this purpose. The prior approval of the Ministry of Planning and National Economy is required for all imports, irrespective of origin, that are financed with suppliers' credit. Import licenses for nonliberalized goods from countries outside the French Franc Area require the prior approval (avis technique) of the com- petent ministry; the prior approval (visa) of the Central Bank is required for making the cor- responding import payment. Excluding "pro- hibited" imports, the import licensing system as applied to countries outside the French Franc Area with which Tunisia does not have bilateral payments arrangements distinguishes between (1) liberalized goods, for which licenses, in principle, are granted automatically; (2) goods subject to global quotas, which may be imported from any country; and (3) goods admitted under quotas established in bilateral trade agreements. There have been certain delays in granting licenses for liberalized goods. The free list does not apply to payments agreement countries. Save in exceptional circumstances, licenses for goods not included in the free list, the global quota list, or the "pro- hibited" list are reserved for countries with which bilateral trade agreements are in force. Under an "urgency procedure," imports from any source of certain spare parts and some other items, when valued at not more than D 500, are free of license. All imports from countries with which there are bilateral payments agreements require individual licenses. Licenses are granted on the basis of global quotas or of bilateral quotas, where such 461 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA quotas exist. In some cases, private compensation transactions are approved. To obtain an import license, importers must be listed in the com- mercial register and must have received a code number. All import documents involving payments must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank. Import taxes of 5, 10, and 15 per cent apply to 300 sections of the ta r i f f; certain essential items, viz., milk, dairy products, and pharmaceu- ticals, are exempt. These taxes are applied on the c.i.f. value plus customs duties, and are in addi- tion to duties. There are also some other import taxes. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the approval of the Central Bank; for some invisibles this authority has been delegated to the authorized banks. Provided that appropriate documentation is submitted, approval is given for payments for certain current transactions, including remittances of profits, dividends, and interest due to non- residents. Payments for such items as business travel and family maintenance are approved up to certain limits; in addition, exporters and hotel owners holding balances on EFAC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below) may use these freely for business travel and public- ity expenditures abroad. Foreigners employed in Tunisia may remit abroad up to 50 per cent of their monthly salary, subject to a maximum of D 100 a month if their family lives in Tunisia or D 150 a month if they do not have their family with them. Other payments are more severely restricted. Residents of Tunisia traveling abroad as tourists are entitled once a year to an exchange allocation equivalent to D 50 (D 25 for children under 10). The allocation may be taken in the form of foreign banknotes. The export of foreign banknotes is subject to authorization by the Cen- tral Bank. The export of Tunisian banknotes is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Exports to other parts of the French Franc Area and liberalized exports not exceeding D 50 to other countries do not require a license. All other exports require export licenses. For all 462 exports, exporters must give undertakings to repatriate the exchange proceeds; the repatria- tion must ordinarily take place within 15 days from the date payment is due, and, in any event, within 100 days from the date of shipment unless otherwise allowed by the Central Bank. Exporters and hotel owners may have credited to special EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts the equivalent in dinars of a part of their export proceeds, viz., 2 per cent for a cash sale and 1 per cent for a sale on credit. Such accounts may be maintained in convertible or bilateral dinars, depending on the currency surrendered. Balances in EFAC accounts may be used freely for business travel and publicity expenses abroad. Any balance in excess of D 1,000 must be surrendered. A special tax of 10 per cent is levied on exports of olive oil (except olive oil in containers of 1 kilogram or less), salt, and cork, and a tax of 15 per cent on specified calcium phosphates and superphosphates, metallurgical ores, scrap iron, raw lead, and lead residuals. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents must repatriate and surrender all amounts derived from services rendered to persons resident abroad, including residents of the French Franc Area, and also all other income or pro- ceeds from invisibles received from countries outside the French Franc Area. Foreign bank- notes and coins (except gold coins) may be brought in freely. The import of Tunisian banknotes is prohibited. Capital All nonresidents, including residents of other countries of the French Franc Area, who wish to invest in Tunisia are required to obtain the prior approval of the Tunisian authorities in order to secure the guarantee for the transfer of principal of, and current earnings from, such investments. All foreign nationals who have been residents of Tunisia may convert their bank balances up to D 3,500 into foreign exchange upon leaving Tunisia permanently; amounts in excess of this limit are credited to Capital Accounts, as are inheritances received after the departure of the beneficiary. Proceeds from the liquidation of non- transferable foreign assets (e.g., real es ta te) must also be credited to Capital Accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution All capital transfers by Tunisian nationals require the approval of the Central Bank. The purchase by Tunisian residents of foreign securi- ties on foreign stock exchanges is, in principle, forbidden; in some instances, authorization is granted for a resident to subscribe abroad to a share issued by an enterprise in which he is already a shareholder. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Tunisia for numismatic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary author- ities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities and industrial users. TUNISIA Changes during 1968 March 22. Import quotas totaling about D 3.5 million and valid until the end of 1968 were announced for specified commodities originating in and shipped from France. April 1. An exchange budget for 1968 was established. It provided for imports valued at D 135 million. April. It was announced that certain import procedures would be modified. The principal change would be the introduction of a require- ment of a combined import and exchange license (autorisation d'importation et de transfer!) for all imports from the French Franc Area. Previously, no import license was required for imports from this Area of commodities not subject to quantita- tive restriction. For such commodities, the new type of license would be issued upon application. By the end of the year, the measures had not yet been put into effect. June 14. The global import quotas for 1968 were announced. 463 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY1 Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0987412 gram of fine gold per Turkish Lira or LT 9.00 = US$1. The official rates are LT 9.00 buying, and LT 9.08 selling, per US$1. Official rates for other currencies are established by the Central Bank of Turkey on the basis of the par value of the other currency con- cerned. A tax of 50 per cent (m in imum LT 500) is levied on foreign exchange purchased for most travel purposes, including the cost of transporta- tion. Remittances by Turkish workers abroad are converted at the par value; when the Turkish lira equivalent is credited to an account at a bank in Turkey, the account is immediately credited with an additional 33% per cent of the amount con- verted. The cost of this additional payment, repre- senting three years' interest at 11.11 per cent per annum, is borne by the government budget. The resulting effective rate is LT 12 per US$1. An advance refund of consumption and indirect taxes at a rate of 33% per cent is paid on the amount of convertible foreign currencies exchanged by tourists and other nonresidents in Turkey for local currency, resulting also in an effective rate of LT 12 per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Min- istry of Finance. Import programs are prepared by the Ministry of Commerce in conjunction with the Ministry of Finance and in consultation with the Central Bank and other interested institutions. The selection of permitted imports and the deter- mination as to whether they should be admitted free of restriction or under quantitative limitation is the responsibility of the Ministry of Commerce. Foreign exchange is mainly allocated by the Cen- tral Bank; however, for some categories of imports under quotas, the Union of Chambers of Com- merce and Industry or the appropriate ministry make allocations. Certain foreign exchange alloca- tions for imports require the prior approval of the competent ministry, primarily for public security, agricultural, or health reasons, even if an import license has been obtained or the commodity is on 1 In view of a change that took place on Janua ry 4, 1969 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position on that date. 464 the liberalized list. The Central Bank issues import licenses, and the Ministry of Commerce issues export licenses. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Turkey has bilateral payments agreements 2 are made in accordance with the terms of the relevant agree- ment. Certain commercial settlements with the other members of the Regional Cooperation for Development (Iran and Pakistan) are made through special accounts denominated in U.S. dollars. Settlements with other countries are made in convertible currencies; exceptionally, however, exports of certain goods and services to specified countries may be settled in Turkish liras released under debt liquidation agreements from blocked balances. imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. All com- mercial imports require import licenses, which are valid for six months, and, generally, goods must be cleared through the customs within four months. Import licenses are issued to registered importers (import merchants), industrialists (manufacturers importing for their own needs), state economic enterprises, and government departments. Private individuals and corporate bodies are required to secure an "importer's certificate" before sub- mitting applications through the authorized banks for licenses to import goods for commercial pur- poses. However, exporters, operators of mining undertakings and tourist establishments, and indus- trialists are not required to secure an "importer's certificate" for imports to be used exclusively for their own needs. Most goods are imported in accordance with the provisions of import programs, which are planned for a year. The import programs, which include commodities financed with funds from the U.S. Agency for International Development (A ID ), classify imports in two categories: (1) an 2 A lban ia, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany (an agreement between the Chambers of Commerce), Hungary, Israel, Poland, Ruman ia, U.S.S.R., United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia. Payments with Portugal are channeled through a special account, but Portugal is not considered a bilateral country. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution annual list of liberalized goods, consisting of two parts (Lists I and I I ), for which import licenses are issued freely; and (2) a semiannual list of goods subject to global quotas. Imports of goods that do not appear on either of these lists are pro- hibited; certain of these commodities, however, may be imported when specifically authorized by the relevant ministry or by the Union of Chambers of Commerce and Industry. The list of liberalized goods and the list of global quotas apply, in prin- ciple, only to imports from countries other than those with which Turkey has bilateral payments agreements; goods not included in either of these two import lists may not be imported under the bilateral quotas. For some goods on the liberal- ization and global quota lists, importers have the option of applying for exchange allocations from U.S. AID funds; there are no goods on these lists, however, that may be imported only with U.S. AID funds and only from the United States. An over-all foreign exchange allocation is set aside by the Central Bank for imports of goods on the liberalization list. Applications for import licenses for goods on this list may be submitted through authorized banks at any time during the validity of the list; these banks prepare the import licenses and forward them to the Central Bank for approval. For certain liberalized goods, the prior approval of the ministry concerned is also required. Under liberalization List I, there are special arrangements administered by the Min- istry of Commerce to facilitate priority allocation of foreign exchange for imports of raw materials and supplementary materials required for export production.3 Allocations under the global quota list are divided into two broad subquotas, for registered importers and for industrialists. Allocations for imports on the global quota list are made by the Central Bank, by one of several ministries, or by the Union of Chambers of Commerce and Indus- try, within quantitative limits established for each quota item. In principle, quotas for importers are allocated by the Central Bank on a pro rata basis, but for some items the prior approval of the min- istry concerned is also required. Applications for these quotas must be made through an authorized TURKEY bank within one month of the date of publication of the quota list. No single importer may apply for more than 20 per cent of the quota set for any particular commodity. Applicants are notified of allocations made by the Central Bank through the authorized banks. Within two months of receiving notice of an allocation, the importer must apply for an import license through an authorized bank. Quotas for industrialists are allocated by the Union of Chambers of Commerce and Industry or the Ministry of Industry on the basis of such criteria as capacity, output, and previous per- formance. After the applicant has secured an allo- cation (i.e., has been issued a "certificate of need"), he must apply through an authorized bank to the Central Bank for an import license within three months, and no later than one month from the expiration date of the quota list. Some quotas, irrespective of the category (either importers' or industrialists') in which they are included, are allocated by particular authorities, for example, the Ministries of Agriculture, Commerce, Finance, Industry, or Health and Welfare; after securing an allocation under these quotas, the applicant must follow the procedure for imports under indus- trialists' quotas. The import license permits the necessary foreign exchange payment to be made. Payments for imports may be made against a letter of credit, documents, or goods. However, for liberalized imports and those financed from U.S. AID funds, payment may be made only against a letter of credit. When the payment is to be made against a letter of credit, registered importers and indus- trialists are required to prepay in local currency the equivalent of the foreign exchange applied for.4 For payments against documents or goods for global quota list imports, importers and indus- trialists are required to pay the full value of the import and make the foreign exchange transfer within five months from the date of the import license for payments against documents and within one month from the date of customs clearance for payments against goods. Imports from bilateral agreement countries are subject to separate quotas. These are established only for commodities that appear on the liberal- 3 Goods sold in Turkey against payment in convertible currency are treated as exports in this context. The amount of foreign exchange allocated under this quota may not exceed 50 per cent of projected export proceeds. 4 With a few exceptions, the fu ll amount of the letter of credit is immed ia te ly transmitted to the foreign cor- respondent bank. 465 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY ization or global quota lists. The import licensing procedure for goods from these countries is the same as for imports under global quotas, except that applications under the bilateral quotas speci- fied in each agreement must be made within one month of publication of the quota. Guarantee deposits for imports, whether financed from U.S. AID funds or not, are payable in advance, generally as follows: for goods on liberalization List I, 90 per cent of the value of the merchandise is payable,5 and on List II, 120 per cen t ;6 for imports under global quotas or bilateral quotas, 50 per cent of the value of the import application is payable by importers, and 20 per cent by industrialists and export manu- facturers, at the time application to import is made. Guarantee deposits are payable irrespective of the method of payment employed. The public sector is exempt, however, and in many cases industrialists make a symbolic deposit of 1 per cent (on imports under investment quotas set aside for their use and applicable to convertible currency countries on ly ). The deposit remains blocked until the goods have been imported and the foreign supplier paid; it is then refunded to the importer. The guarantee deposit required for applications to the special exporters' quota estab- lished to meet import needs of priority export industries is refunded to export manufacturers when the products concerned are exported. For imports to be financed from U.S. AID funds, a guarantee payment of 10 per cent not to exceed LT 100,000 is payable for imports of the public sector other than central government agen- cies, irrespective of whether the goods are included in the liberalization list or the quota list. Imports without an allocation of foreign exchange may be permitted by the customs author- ities, the Central Bank, or the Ministry of Finance under certain conditions. Private persons and legal entities may import freely commodities for personal or family use with a limit of LT 500 for each shipment; residents may import freely unused goods on the liberalization list without obtaining any allocation of foreign exchange, provided that they hold an import permit from the Central Bank. In addition to personal effects, foreign tourists may import goods and machinery for their per- sonal or fam i ly use. For Turkish residents return- ing from working abroad, such imports may amount to LT 10,000 in total value, provided that the goods in question are for use in their profes- sion, that they have worked abroad for at least two years, and that the goods are included in the global quota list. Persons arriving in Turkey are permitted to import as personal effects commod- ities (excluding cars, motorcycles, and bicycles with motors) up to a value of LT 1,000.7 Turkish nationals returning to Turkey after spending at least one year abroad and foreigners entering Turkey to become residents may import their used household goods. Imports without an allocation of foreign exchange by specified immigrants are limited to commodities included either in the liberalization list or in the quota list; no license for a commodity on the quota list may exceed 20 per cent of the current quota for that item or the equivalent of US$10,000, whichever is lower. Residents temporarily working abroad who combine to form a company to operate in Turkey are permitted to import investment goods under Ministry of Finance quotas, against remittances in foreign exchange. Turkish nationals employed abroad may obtain import licenses for machinery and certain other commodities valued at up to US$10,000 for use in their profession on return, provided that during a two-year period they trans- ferred to Turkey at least US$25 but not more than US$125 a month and provided that they under- take to maintain permanent residence in Turkey. Foreign contractors may import machinery, vehicles, and scientific instruments without request- ing an allocation of foreign exchange, provided that the goods are proved to be necessary for their operations in Turkey and may not be imported on a temporary basis under the relevant customs regulations. Foreign companies established in Turkey may import spare parts not intended for new investments, without requesting an allocation of foreign exchange, provided that the goods are necessary for their operations. All such imports require the permission of the exchange control authorities. Goods imported on these terms must not be sold to third parties in Turkey. 5 For fertilizers the ratio is 20 per cent. 6 For parts and components of motor vehicles the ratio is 150 per cent. 7 Under this rule, commodities that are subject to cus- toms du ty cannot be imported by residents if foreign exchange has been allocated to them for tourism or medical trea tment purposes. 466 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Turkish residents who have remained abroad for more than one year may import automobiles,8 provided that each individual has owned and operated the vehicle for a period of at least 6 months prior to his return, that the automobile was not more than three years old at the time of acquisition, and that it does not exceed 1,600 kilograms in weight.9 The earnings of persons who travel abroad on official business on a temporary basis for periods of less than one year are con- sidered as savings when these earnings are in excess of US$300 monthly. Such persons may import an automobile registered in their names abroad, provided that over a two-year period the individual's savings amount to at least US$1,000. Personal effects of persons entering Turkey are exempt from customs duty, while all other imports without an allocation of foreign exchange are sub- ject to the payment of customs duty. Automobiles imported without a foreign exchange allocation may be sold to residents by the Turkish nationals who have imported them. Foreign diplomats in Turkey may sell their auto- mobiles to Turkish residents freely, provided that the necessary import duties are paid at the time of the sale, that Turkish diplomats in the seller's country are granted reciprocal privileges, and that proceeds from such sales are not transferred abroad. Foreign officials other than diplomats may not sell to Turkish nationals any automobiles imported duty-free under special agreements. Other foreign nationals resident in Turkey may import automobiles under certain conditions, but they must be exported after three years. This three-year period, however, may be extended. Also, the Ministry of Finance may permit the sale of such cars to the State Supply Office, to other government agencies, or to nonprofit organiza- tions. With these exceptions, automobiles and any other commodities that have been imported du ty- free may be sold freely to residents. In addition to customs duty, imported goods are subject to the following charges: (1) a cus- toms surcharge of 15 per cent of the applicable customs du ty; (2) a stamp duty of 15 per cent of the declared value; (3) a quay du ty of 5 per cent 8 Automobiles are not included in the import program. 9 Persons who have been abroad for tourism, medical t rea tmen t, tra in ing, or business purposes cannot benefit f rom this provision. TURKEY on the sum of c.i.f. value, customs duty, customs surcharge, stamp duty, and customs clearance expenses; and (4) a production tax ranging gen- erally from 10 per cent to 25 per cent on the sum of c.i.f. value, customs duty, customs surcharge, stamp duty, customs clearing expenses, and quay du ty. The quay du ty is not payable on goods imported by air. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses which usually are issued by the Central Bank. These are granted liberally for the following pur- poses, provided that applications are accompanied by specified documents: payments related to trade (including shipping costs), subscriptions to news- papers and periodicals, purchases of books, pay- ments for registration fees, advertising expenses, consulate income, payments by the Government, payments by the Post Office Administration and similar state institutions, banks' commissions and expenses, a proportion of insurance companies' payments, specified technical assistance, repair and assembly expenses, and legal fees for com- mercial transactions. The transfer of income related to approved foreign investments is per- mitted freely. Interest on long-term loans and credits extended by nonresidents to enterprises in Turkey (including those of an agricultural char- acter) may be granted transferability between foreign nationals both in Turkey and abroad. Turkish citizens are not allowed to leave the country without having obtained an allocation of exchange for travel, but this does not apply to foreign nationals residing in Turkey. Tourist travel is restricted to one trip a person a year, except for travel to Cyprus. The allowance of exchange for tourist travel is the equivalent of US$200 a cal- endar year and travelers are not allowed to leave the country unless they are carrying that amount in foreign exchange (US$110 for persons under 18 years of age, the purchase of this amount not being manda to ry ). Turkish citizens traveling to Cyprus may obtain an exchange allocation equiva- lent to up to US$200 on request; this does not affect their right to claim the tourist travel allow- ance. Exchange for business travel is granted within the limits of annual quotas, which vary according to the taxable income of the applicant firm. For exporting companies, the limit is related to their export proceeds. Exchange for travel 467 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY abroad for other purposes (e.g., education, partic- ipation in international meetings, fairs, athletic meets, etc., and personal business) is sold up to specified limits. In addition, persons who can cer- tify that it is necessary for them to travel abroad for medical treatment may purchase the necessary foreign exchange. With certain exceptions, of which the main one is travel for reasons of health, a tax of 50 per cent (m in imum LT 500) is payable on all exchange purchased for travel abroad, on the purchase of tickets for foreign travel, and on baggage charges. The LT 500 minimum is not applicable to Turkish citizens leaving to work aboard. Travelers are permitted to take out LT 100 in Turkish banknotes and coins. Nonresidents may take out without any restriction the unspent por- tion of the foreign exchange which they brought in. Nonresident travelers who wish to reconvert Turkish liras into foreign currency when leaving the country are required to present a document showing that foreign exchange had previously been sold to an authorized dealer in Turkey. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Most exports are free of license, but a few commodities require an export license, either in order to pre- vent re-export or to assure adequate supplies for the domestic market. Exports not payable in con- vertible currencies are subject to licenses and to export quotas. Exporters are required to sell to a bank in Turkey the foreign exchange proceeds of goods exported within three months from the date of export or within ten days from the date on which the foreign exchange is placed at their disposal. Under an export tax rebate scheme, indirect taxes paid are refunded when manufac tures or processed products are exported. Proceeds from Invisibles Convertible foreign currencies exchanged by foreign tourists for local currency benefit from an advance refund of consumption and indirect taxes; the refund amounts to 33% per cent of the official exchange rate. Firms or individuals not in the cate- gory of authorized institutions cannot accept more than the equivalent of US$ 100 from foreign tourists and are required to surrender any exchange earn- 468 ings in the form of foreign banknotes and travelers checks to an authorized bank within ten days. Otherwise, foreign exchange accruing to residents for services rendered by them to nonresidents must be surrendered to an authorized exchange dealer within three months from the date on which the service was rendered or within ten days from the date of acquisition of the exchange. Remit- tances from Turkish workers abroad must be con- verted at the par value. When the Turkish lira equivalent is credited to a bank account in Turkey, an additional amount of 33% per cent is imme- diately credited to the account representing three years' interest at 11.11 per cent per annum; the amounts deposited plus the interest can be with- drawn at any time.10 Foreign travelers wishing to take out articles of a value exceeding LT 2,000 must show proof that they have converted foreign exchange to cover the portion of the cost exceed- ing this limit. The import of Turkish banknotes and coins by travelers (whether of Turkish or foreign nation- ality) is limited to LT 100. The import of foreign currency by travelers is unrestricted. Capital Foreign investments in Turkey require approval. Capital transfers abroad by residents and capital transactions between residents and nonresidents are subject to the approval of the exchange con- trol authorities. Residents are not normally per- mitted to acquire foreign securities or real estate. With the exception of certain investments made in accordance with the provisions of the Law to Encourage Foreign Investments or the Petroleum Law, foreign companies and contractors who wish to do business in Turkey must import the required capital and operating funds in the form of foreign exchange, although under certain conditions blocked funds may be used for investment in the tourist industry. Borrowing in Turkish liras by such foreign companies and contractors is subject to quotas set by the Ministry of Finance in accor- dance with their equity capital in Turkey. Except for approved investments, nonresidents may not convert into foreign currency any assets or bal- ances owned by them, or earnings accruing to 10 Foreign nationals in Turkey and Turkish workers abroad may open convertible lira accounts in Turkish banks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution them; all earnings are blocked but if, at the end of the calendar year, such earnings are less than LT 5,000, the amount involved is deblocked. Sub- ject to individual permission, blocked assets and balances may be utilized within Turkey, e.g., for the payment of taxes, insurance, and maintenance and repair of property; and for living expenses of up to LT 4,500 a month for each beneficiary for owners of such funds or their authorized repre- sentatives, and up to LT 2,500 for certain rela- tives. They may not, however, be utilized as business capital except for investment in the tourist industry. Normally, such blocked funds may not be transferred to others except by legal succession. The investment of blocked funds in the tourist industry is subject to the following conditions: (1) there must be a contribution in new foreign exchange or imported equipment equal to at least 50 per cent of the blocked funds to be used and (2) the investor must undertake not to request transfer for at least five years of that part of the capital financed by means of the blocked funds. Blocked funds used in this manner are considered as foreign capital imported under the Law to Encourage Foreign Investments. Balances on nonresident accounts established at the Central Bank in accordance with the Paris Agreement on Commercial Debts Owed by Resi- dents of Turkey (1959) may be used either par- tially or wholly by the creditors for investment or to pay expenses in Turkey at any time prior to the date, established under the Agreement, when the balances may be transferred. The use of these balances for investment purposes is subject to the provisions of the Law to Encourage Foreign Investments. However, invested funds and income related thereto may not be transferred abroad before the transfer date established under the Agreement, except for investment in the export industry or in other industries earning foreign exchange; in such instances the equivalent of up to 25 per cent of the investment may be transferred annually. Foreign capital invested in Turkey under the terms of the Law to Encourage Foreign Invest- ments is accorded preferential treatment, provided that the enterprise in which the investment is to be made is deemed to contribute to the economic development of the country, or will operate in a field of activity open to Turkish private enterprise and will not entail monopoly or special privilege. TURKEY Under this law, all or part of the invested capital or foreign loans may be remitted abroad in the original currency of the capital. Upon applica- tion, the Ministry of Finance guarantees the trans- fer of dividends and of the proceeds from the sale or liquidation of shares or stock certificates registered on the books of companies established under the law. Such registered shares or stock certificates are freely transferable between foreign nationals, both in Turkey and abroad, and between foreign nationals and residents. The transfer guar- antees pass on to the new owner, provided that his name is notified to the Ministry of Finance; if the shares or stock certificates are sold to a res- ident, however, they must be presented to the Ministry of Finance for cancellation of the guar- antees. The capital and interest on long-term loans and credits extended by nonresidents to enter- prises in Turkey (including those of an agricul- tural character) may be accorded the same transfer benefits. Foreign capital imported under the Petro- leum Law is accorded additional preferential treatment. Transactions in securities, including their export and import, require approval when nonresident interests are involved. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Turkey for numismatic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1968 January 4. The twentieth import program was announced. It differed little from the previous one. The issuance of licenses was on a six-monthly basis, but the system would not be subject to major adjustments for the whole calendar year. Some items of little economic significance were removed from the liberalized list and some quotas were withdrawn and others added. Some addi- tional items on the liberalized list were made sub- 469 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY ject to ministerial approval. There were no major changes in the deposit requirements. March 1. By Decree No. 6/9625, the stamp du ty on imports was raised from 10 per cent to 15 per cent of the c.i.f. value of imports. March 4. A scheme was introduced which stipulated an advance refund of consumption and indirect taxes, calculated at a flat rate of 33% per cent, on convertible foreign currencies exchanged for local currency by foreign tourists. The rate of interest paid on foreign exchange remittances by Turkish workers abroad when converted at the par value and credited to a bank account in Turkey was increased from 9 per cent to 11.11 per cent; this measure in effect raised the premium on conversion of such remittances from 27 per cent to 33% per cent. April 15. Decree No. 6/9762 provided that authorizations granted for foreign direct invest- ments would be revoked if the projects were not realized within a specified period. Similar mea- sures were taken in respect of Turkish firms that borrowed abroad for productive purposes. April 18. The amount of foreign exchange that Turkish residents (other than institutions author- ized to engage in foreign exchange transactions) are allowed to purchase from foreign tourists was raised from the equivalent of US$50 to the equiv- alent of US$100. The facility under which per- sons arriving in Turkey are permitted to import without license (but subject to import du ty) goods for personal and family use up to the value of LT 1,000 was repealed with regard to residents who have been abroad as tourists or for medical treatment. Residents who have been abroad as tourists or for medical treatment, education, or business were no longer granted licenses to import automobiles, irrespective of the source of foreign exchange they would use to pay for such imports. The restrictions concerning allocation of foreign exchange for business travel abroad were eased, while regulations concerning certain other types of payments for invisibles were simplified. April 18. Blocked lira balances held by non- residents could no longer be used for film pro- duction or group travel in Turkey. May 21. The advance tax refund scheme on foreign currency exchanged by tourists was extended to all nonresidents in Turkey, 470 May 25. Circular No. 68/22 extended until January 4, 1969 the validity of the liberalization lists for the first half of 1968. June 21. The criteria for approval of foreign direct investments in Turkey were tightened. June 29. Those provisions in the import pro- gram were repealed which stipulated that certain liberalized or global quota commodities must be partly or fully imported from the United States with AID funds only. As a result, these goods could be imported from any country other than a bilateral country. July 8. The Minister of Finance amended the Decree on the Protection of the Value of the Turkish Currency to allow the resale to residents of automobiles and any other commodities that had been imported free of duty. September 11. Commodity lists and refund rates of the export tax rebate scheme were revised. September 16. Interest rates on credits for financing of export production and export trade were reduced from 9 per cent to 6 per cent. Such credits would be exempt from transaction taxes. The export tax rebate process was simplified and shortened. There was an increase in the powers of the Export Promotion Bureau of the State Plan- ning Organization as related to the export tax rebate scheme. A special import quota was estab- lished to facilitate priority allocation of foreign exchange for imports of raw materials and supple- mentary materials required for export production. The amount of foreign exchange allocated from this quota could exceed 50 per cent of the pro- jected export proceeds. A 10 per cent guarantee deposit was required for applications to this quota; the deposit was released when products were exported. Goods sold in Turkey against payment in convertible currency were to be treated as exports in this context. November 20. Acceptance of applications for imports on the liberalized list was stopped for the remainder of 1968. December 4. Imports from and exports to Rhodesia were prohibited. December 16. New commodities were entered on the lists of the export tax rebate scheme. December 23. A bilateral payments agreement was signed with Albania. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NOTE. —The following change took place early in 1969: January 4. The import regulations for 1969 were announced. They were virtually identical with those for 1968. The liberalization lists, how- ever, would remain valid the entire year, while the quota lists were applicable to the first six months only. Also, the guarantee deposits for liberaliza- tion List I were raised from 70 per cent to 90 per cent, those for liberalization List II from 100 per cent to 120 per cent, and those for the quota list from 30 per cent to 50 per cent or from 10 per cent to 20 per cent. TURKEY 471 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA1 Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.124414 gram of fine gold per Uganda Shilling or U Sh 7.14286 = US$1. There is a fixed relationship between the Uganda shilling and the pound sterling of £1 = U Sh 17.1429. Kenya shillings and Tan- zania shillings may be exchanged into Uganda shillings at par at commercial banks or at the Bank of Uganda. East African shillings (which have ceased to be legal tender) issued by the East African Currency Board may also be exchanged at par. In transactions equivalent to at least <£ stg. 5,000 with the public, the Bank of Uganda stands ready to issue Uganda shillings in exchange for sterling and to supply sterling in exchange for Uganda shillings; the official limits for the buying and selling rates for sterling differ from the rate of £1 = U Sh 17.1429 by % and Y2 per cent, respectively. The Bank deals with its banking customers and, for large transactions, with the public at rates between the official limits. In transactions covering smaller amounts, the pub- lic has to deal through the authorized banks. The buying and selling rates for such transactions are at present within the official limits. The Bank does not deal in foreign currencies2 other than sterling, U.S. dollars, and deutsche mark. Banks in Uganda base their rates for such foreign currencies on the current market rates in London. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Uganda on behalf of the Minister of Finance. Authority for approving normal import payments, many payments in respect of current invisibles, and some capital payments to countries other than Kenya and Tanzania is delegated to the authorized banks. Import and export control is administered by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry under the External Trade Act. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry has powers to prohibit imports and exports. The issuing of import and export licenses 1 In view of certain changes that took place early in 1969 (see note at the end of this su rvey ), this survey presents the situation on Janua ry 30, 1969. 2 Foreign currencies are all currencies other than the Uganda shilling, the Kenya shilling, the Tanzania shilling, and the East African shilling. 472 has been delegated to certain officers of that ministry. Applications should be submitted by the importer or exporter in Uganda before orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. Applica- tions for import licenses are examined by the Import Licensing Board, which is chaired by the Minister of Commerce and Industry or a person nominated by him. The National Trading Corpo- ration has the sole distribution right for specified basic commodities. Together with Kenya and Tanzania, Uganda is part of the East African currency area. Payments from Uganda to Kenya and Tanzania are free of restrictions. Prescription of Currency Uganda is a member of the Sterling Area and maintains prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom; all settle- ments with Kenya and Tanzania, however, must be effected in East African currency.3 Payments to residents of countries in the Sterling Area other than Kenya, Tanzania, and South Africa may be made in Uganda shillings to the credit of a Sterling Area Account in Uganda or in any other Sterling Area currency; receipts from such countries must be obtained in Uganda shillings from a Sterling Area Account in Uganda or in any other Sterling Area currency. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Uganda to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling to an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Uganda shillings to the credit of an External Account in Uganda, or in any other non-Sterling Area currency except Rhodesian pounds that is appropriate to the country of residence of the payee. Receipts from countries outside the Ster- ling Area other Rhodesia may be obtained in ster- ling from an External Account in the United King- dom, in Uganda shillings from an External Account, or in any other specified currency4 that 3 East African currency comprises Uganda shillings, Kenya shillings, and Tanzania shillings. 4 The specified currencies are listed as follows: Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish and Faroese kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and all Sterling Area currencies other than the Uganda shilling, the Kenya shilling, the Tanzania shilling, and the East Afr ican shilling. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution is not a Sterling Area currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia, South Africa, and South-West Africa. Uganda or in any other Sterling Area country, and for purchases of non-Sterling Area currencies from authorized dealers. UGANDA Nonresident Accounts Sterling Area Accounts are held by residents of other Sterling Area countries except Kenya and Tanzania. They may be credited freely with all authorized payments to such Sterling Area coun- tries by Uganda residents, with transfers from other Sterling Area Accounts, with transfers from External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales to an authorized dealer in Uganda of any foreign currency or gold by residents of any other country in the Sterling Area except Kenya and Tanzania. They may be debited freely for pay- ments for exports to other countries in the Ster- ling Area except Kenya and Tanzania and other payments due by residents of other countries in the Sterling Area to Uganda residents, for pay- ments to residents of other countries in the Ster- ling Area for any purpose, for transfers to other Sterling Area Accounts in Uganda, for purchases of any Sterling Area currency, and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in Uganda; provided that permission of the appropriate exchange control authorities in a Sterling Area country has been obtained, Sterling Area Accounts may exceptionally be debited for transfers to External Accounts in Uganda or else- where in the Sterling Area, and for purchases in Uganda of any non-Sterling Area currency or gold. Accounts in Uganda shillings held by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia with authorized banks are, with ex- change control approval, designated External Accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments to such countries by resi- dents of Uganda, with transfers from other Exter- nal Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any non-Sterling Area currency (other than Rho- desian pounds) and gold by nonresidents of the Sterling Area to authorized dealers; provided that permission of the appropriate exchange control authorities in a Sterling Area country other than Kenya or Tanzania has been obtained, External Accounts may also be credited with transfers from Sterling Area Accounts. They may be debited freely for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts in Nontransferable funds of residents of countries other than Kenya and Tanzania are credited to Blocked Accounts. Subject to prior approval, bal- ances on Blocked Accounts may be used for the purchase in Uganda of specified bonds and shares issued in Kenya, Tanzania, or Uganda; the redemp- tion proceeds of certain government bonds so acquired are transferable beginning five years from the date of purchase. Subject to individual permission, such balances may also be used for payments to residents not related to export trans- actions. Transfers between Blocked Accounts in Uganda, and to Blocked Accounts in Kenya and Tanzania, require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Some imports from all sources are prohibited for reasons of public policy. All imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Some imports are prohibited from any country other than Kenya or Tanzania or are not being licensed freely; these include certain textiles. Listed com- modities require an individual import license, irrespective of origin; all other goods not pre- viously referred to in this paragraph may be imported without a license from any source other than Rhodesia or South Africa. Some imports from Kenya and Tanzania require import licenses but are unrestricted; some imports from Kenya and Tanzania are subject to transfer taxes. Certain commodities may only be distributed by the National Trading Corporation; these include salt, rice, ghee, onions, wines and spirits, edible oils, and cement. When the importer has obtained a license from the Minister of Commerce and Industry, or if no license is required, exchange is provided auto- matically by an authorized bank upon production of the necessary documentary evidence by the importer that the goods have been shipped from the country of origin or imported into Kenya, Tanzania, or Uganda. Payments for imports must be made within six months of the arrival of the goods in any one of these countries; the prior approval of the Bank of Uganda is required for suppliers' credit in excess of six months. 473 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Kenya and Tanzania are controlled, and those to South Africa are prohibited. Authorized banks are empowered to approve specified cate- gories of current payments up to established limits; amounts above these limits may be approved administratively, and most current payments are in fact unrestricted. The basic allowance for travel outside the Scheduled Territories5 is the equivalent of U Sh 4,000 a person every three years, which may be taken out in foreign banknotes. Travelers to destinations outside Kenya and Tanzania may take out up to U Sh 250 in Kenya, Tanzania, or Uganda shilling notes and up to U Sh 4,000 in other banknotes. Travelers proceeding direct to Kenya or Tanzania may export any amount in Kenya, Tanzania, or Uganda shilling notes. Non- resident travelers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount they brought in upon entry. Fees for education up to the equivalent of U Sh 14,000 a person for a fu ll scholastic year and fees for other specified purposes may be approved by an authorized bank upon production of evidence of debt. A resident of Uganda may not send, as a gift, to a country other than Kenya or Tanzania more than U Sh 200 a year without specific exchange control approval. Facilities exist whereby salaried foreign nation- als, other than nationals of the Scheduled Terri- tories, may during their stay in Uganda remit to their country of origin up to 33 % per cent of their gross monthly earnings, to cover fam i ly maintenance, savings, etc., provided that they are on a contract of employment which includes a firm commitment to leave Uganda upon expiry of the contract. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain foodstuffs and agricultural products require licenses and may be subject to restriction in order to ensure sufficient supplies for consumption in Uganda. Other goods may be exported without licenses. All exports to South Africa, the Portuguese territories in Africa, and Rhodesia are prohibited. 5 Uganda's exchange control regulations define the Scheduled Territories as Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda. 474 Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be collected within six months of exportation and offered to an authorized bank in Uganda for con- version into Uganda shillings. An export tax of 40 per cent ad valorem is levied on copper and copper alloys sold at a price in excess of <£ stg. 400 a ton. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 4) must be sold to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in freely foreign cur- rency notes; the import of Kenya, Tanzania, or Uganda shilling notes must not exceed U Sh 250 in value for each traveler unless arriving direct from Kenya or Tanzania, in which case any amount may be brought in. Capital Capital transfers to all countries other than Kenya and Tanzania are restricted and those to South Africa are prohibited. Residents of Uganda, however, may be granted exemptions from the deposit and surrender requirements in respect of foreign assets for specified Sterling Area assets held prior to June 11, 1965. Specified capital transfers up to established amounts to all countries other than Kenya and Tanzania are approved by authorized banks; all other capital transfers to destinations other than Kenya and Tanzania require individual exchange control approval. Residents of Uganda leaving the Scheduled Territories (see footnote 5) perma- nently may transfer their assets up to the equivalent of U Sh 50,000. (For noncitizens not entitled to remit savings, the allowance is reduced by the amount of insurance premiums remitted after 1965.) If these residents leaving Uganda take up permanent residence in their country of origin, approval is normally given for the further transfer of up to the equivalent of U Sh 20,000 upon each anniversary of their departure. All remaining funds must be credited to a Blocked Account and may be invested in certain approved securities; such funds, if invested, become transferable five years after being directed to a Blocked Account. The income from such investments is transferable also during the period of blocking. There is no restriction on the investment of foreign funds in Uganda; but to ensure eventual ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution repatriation, it is necessary to obtain "approved status" for the investment in terms of the Foreign Investments (Protection) Act, 1964, which in nor- mal circumstances is given freely. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of produc- tion require approval under the East African Licensing Ordinance. Dividends and profits due to nonresidents and distributed by companies operat- ing in Uganda are transferable. Except in respect of Kenya and Tanzania, all imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase by nonresidents of Ugandan securities on a recog- nized stock exchange in East Africa, provided that payment is received in an appropriate man- ner. The income from such securities is remittable, and the proceeds on resale are normally remittable also. Purchases of securities outside Kenya and Tanzania by residents are not normally permitted. With minor exceptions, loans or overdraft facili- ties granted to a nonresident or to a body corpo- rate resident in the Scheduled Territories which is by any means controlled, whether directly or indirectly, by persons resident outside the Sched- uled Territories require prior exchange control approval. Commercial banks are not permitted to grant overdraft facilities to individuals and com- panies in order to enable them to make overseas transfers. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Uganda for numismatic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance. Export licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. The import of the following from all sources other than Kenya and Tanzania, and from Kenya and Tanzania when originating in other countries, is subject to individual licensing: jewelry of gold, silver, or p la t inum; goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares, including set gems; bullion in the ingot, bar, or sheet; and gold coins. Import licenses for UGANDA gold bullion (ingots, bars, or sheets), gold jewelry, and gold coins are issued to goldsmiths only and are issued restrictively. Changes during 1968 January 1. Restrictions were imposed on im- ports of passenger automobiles. Each importer's or dealer's quota was set at 80 per cent of his 1966 imports. January 20. A Japanese company signed a con- tract to purchase the entire output of Uganda's only copper mine for the next five years. February 16. The export and import of East African shilling notes were prohibited, unless made by banks in Uganda. March 25. An Import Licensing Board was established. April 18. Commercial banks were no longer required to obtain a 20 per cent cash deposit from importers prior to issuing letters of credit. September 16. Except with exchange control permission, all payments and transfers to South Africa and South-West Africa were prohibited. September 16. Authorized banks were permitted to enter into forward contracts with their custom- ers for purchases and sales of U.S. dollars, on an outright basis, for exports and imports; contracts for over three months required prior exchange control approval. NOTE —The following changes took place early in 1969: January 23. A number of foreign exchange allocations were revised. Similar measures went into effect in Kenya and Tanzania on the same date. The main changes were as follows: (1) Noncitizens henceforth could remit sav- ings to countries other than Kenya and Tanzania only if they were in Uganda on a contract of employment with a firm commitment to leave Uganda upon expiry of the contract. Other non- citizens were now regarded as permanent residents and were not entitled to remit savings, but upon leaving Uganda permanently they would enjoy the same facilities granted to emigrating citizens. (Only tourists and noncitizens on contracts of 475 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA employment would henceforth be regarded as nonresidents.) through a travel agency in Uganda, would be deducted from the travel allowance. (2) Remittances of savings by noncitizens of any nationality were allowed up to 33% per cent of their salary during the entire period of employ- ment in Uganda; previously, 50 per cent of their salary could be remitted during the first four years and 20 per cent in subsequent years, and these facilities were available only to nationals of Ster- ling Area countries. ( 3) The basic travel allowance for travel out- side East Africa by citizens and noncitizens was reduced from U Sh 5,000 to U Sh 4,000 for each adult ( f rom U Sh 2,500 to U Sh 2,000 for each ch i ld), and this allocation was made avail- able only once every three years, instead of annually, as before. (However, noncitizens on service contracts and expatriate permanent civil servants would be allowed the basic travel allow- ance, or leave salaries up to the amount of the basic travel allowance, whenever taking leave in accordance with their terms of service.) Expendi- tures in respect of hotel accommodation, meals, car rentals, etc., when settled in local currency (4) The standard allowance for the transfer aboard of assets of persons leaving Uganda per- manently was reduced from U Sh 100,000 to U Sh 50,000 for each family unit. Any balance in excess of U Sh 50,000 must be invested in Ugandan securities or kept in a deposit account in a bank in Uganda, and would be released, sub- ject to exchange control approval, in annual install- ments of U Sh 20,000 (previously U Sh 40,000). These allowances would be applicable to all coun- tries, while the previous allowance remittable on the anniversary of the date of emigration was granted only to those emigrating to Sterling Area countries. For noncitizens not entitled to remit savings, the emigration allowance would be reduced by the amount of insurance premiums on foreign currency policies they had remitted after 1965. January 30. Imports of cotton textiles from any country outside the East African Community were prohibited. Imports f rom such countries of textiles of other materials were banned unless their landed value was at least 2s. 6d. (sterling) per square yard. 476 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System On September 18, 1949, a par value for the Egyptian Pound was established by the United Arab Republic with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. All exchange transactions take place at rates based on the official rate of LE 1 = US$2.30, but an exchange tax of 5 per cent is applied to most invisible and capital remittances. The rates of the Central Bank of Egypt on December 31, 1968 were LE 0.434782 buying, and LE 0.437390 selling, per US$1. Banks require prior exchange control approval to deal among themselves in foreign currencies or to engage in arbitrage transactions abroad; such approval is not required, however, for bal- ances held in resident or nonresident foreign currency accounts. Administration of Control Exchange control is supervised by a Supreme Committee for Foreign Exchange, which is set up by the Minister of Economy and Foreign Trade. The exchange control laws, ministerial orders, decree-laws, instructions of the Minister of Economy and Foreign Trade and decisions of the Supreme Committee are carried out by a Director of Exchange Operations appointed by the Minis- ter of Economy and Foreign Trade. A foreign exchange budget is established annually. The technical work of exchange control is performed, under the supervision and instructions of the Director of Exchange Operations, by the Central Exchange Control Department attached to the Central Bank of Egypt. An Export Board controls exports. All imports and most exports of tradi- tional commodities are carried out by public sec- tor companies. Import licenses for imports that do not require the transfer of foreign exchange are issued by the Import Control Office. Prescription of Currency Payments to residents of countries with which the United Arab Republic does not have bilateral payments agreements may be made in the cur- rency of the payee's coun try when that cur- rency is available; in a convertible currency;1 in Egyptian pounds to the credit of the appropriate nonresident account; or in any other manner permitted by the Central Exchange Control. Receipts may be accepted in the currency of the payer's coun try, if it is a currency acceptable to the Central Bank; in any convertible currency; in Egyptian pounds to the debit of an appropri- ate nonresident account; or in any other manner permitted by the Central Exchange Control. Settlements with countries with which the United Arab Republic has payments agreements are made according to the terms of those agree- ments.2 Certain settlements with countries with which indemn i ty agreements concerning compen- sation for nationalized property are in force are made through special accounts in Egyptian pounds with the Central Bank of Egypt. Suez Canal dues must be paid in Egyptian pounds by debiting a Shipping Account No. 1. Balances on this type of account may be created by selling a convertible currency to an authorized bank in the United A rab Republic, or by debit- ing a Free Nonresident Account. Nonresident Accounts In addition to the special accounts related to the bilateral payments agreements of the United Arab Republic or to the indemnity agreements concluded with certain countries, there are four main types of nonresident accounts: Free Non- resident Accounts, Nonresident C Accounts, Non- resident D Accounts, and External Nonresident Accounts in Foreign Currencies. 1 Convertible currencies are listed in the exchange con- trol regulations of the United A rab Republic as Au s t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Neth- erlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 The United Arab Republic has bilateral payments agreements w i th the fo l low ing countries: Albania, Algeria, Bulgaria, ma in land China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ger- many, Greece, Hungary, Iraq, No r th Korea, Mon- golia, Poland, Rum an i a, Spain, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, U.S.S.R., North Viet-Nam, Yemen, and Yugo- slavia. In addition, for the financing of trade in certain specified commodities, credit facilities have been estab- lished between the Central Bank of Egypt and the central bank of each of the following countries: Ceylon, Cuba, Ghana, Guinea, Ind ia, Mali, Morocco, Somalia, Sudan, and Turkey. 477 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC Free Nonresident Accounts may be opened in the name of any nonresident, irrespective of his country of residence. They may be credited with proceeds from the sale of any convertible cur- rency that has been transferred from abroad; with transfers f rom other Free Nonresident Accounts; with interest on the accounts; and with the Egyptian pound equivalent of any trans- fer authorized in convertible currency. They may be debited for payments due to residents; for transfers to other Free Nonresident Accounts or Nonresident C or D Accounts; and for payments abroad in any convertible currency. Nonresident C Accounts may also be opened in the name of any nonresident, irrespective of his country of residence. They may be credited with proceeds from the sale of any convertible cur- rency that has been transferred from abroad; with transfers from Free Nonresident Accounts or other Nonresident C Accounts; and with any amounts authorized to be credited to these accounts by the Central Exchange Control. They may be debited, subject to exchange control approval, for payments due to residents (except for exports, Suez Canal dues, and ships' disburse- men ts ); for transfers to other Nonresident C Accounts; for transfers to Nonresident D Accounts; and for payments abroad in convertible currencies. Nonresident D Accounts may be opened in the name of any resident of a payments agree- ment country (see footnote 2 ). The account must be designated by the name of the partner country concerned, and transfers from the account of one country to any other country may not be made without exchange control authoriza- tion. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds from the sale of any convertible cur- rency that has been transferred from abroad; with transfers from a Free Nonresident Account and— provided that exchange control authorization is obtained —with transfers from a Nonresident C Account; with transfers from other Nonresident D Accounts of the same nationality; and with any sum authorized to be credited to the account. They may be debited for payments due to resi- dents, except for exports, Suez Canal dues, and ships' disbursements, and —provided that Central Exchange Control authorization is obtained —for transfers to other Nonresident D Accounts and for 478 payments to the country in whose name the account is designated. External Nonresident Accounts in Foreign Currencies may be opened in the names of non- residents or persons who are considered nonresi- dents, including U.A.R. nationals who have been resident abroad for five consecutive calendar years and emigrants of U.A.R. nationality, as well as foreigners who reside in the United Arab Repub- lic. The accounts, which are designed for the deposit of income accruing abroad to the holder, must in principle be denominated in a convertible currency (see footnote 1). They may be credited freely with convertible currency remitted from abroad; with transfers from another External Nonresident Account in Foreign Currency; and with any amount of interest paid on the balance by the bank where the account is kept. They may be freely debited for any amount of foreign cur- rency sold to the Central Bank of Egypt; for transfers to another External Nonresident Account in Foreign Currencies; and for transfers of foreign currency abroad. Dealings in foreign banknotes may be recorded in a separate column. There are also blocked accounts, to which may be credited any payment to a nonresident not remittable under the exchange control regula- tions. Transfers between blocked accounts require prior approval. These accounts may be debited for amounts up to LE 1,000 a year for living expenses of the account holder or his family in the United Arab Republic. They may also be debited, subject to prior approval, for investments in U.A.R. Government loans or in registered shares in nominative form of companies estab- lished in the United Arab Republic, and for sub- scriptions to increases in capital of U.A.R. com- panies in which the account holder is already a shareholder. Income derived from such invest- ments may be remitted to the nonresident beneficiary. All accounts held by residents of Rhodesia also are blocked; no transactions on these accounts may take place without prior approval. Resident Accounts in Foreign Currencies. These accounts may be opened in the names of U.A.R. nationals who work abroad or perform services for nonresidents. The accounts may be credited with amounts transferred in convertible currency by the account holder (with the exception of fixed ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution percentages of the income received abroad that must be repatriated) or with foreign banknotes carried by him on arrival in the country. They may be debited for amounts utilized to finance imports for the public or private sector, local pur- chases of apartments, household goods, cars, con- sumer goods, etc., and foreign travel by the account holder, his parents, and his family. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain goods from any source, and all imports from Israel and Rhodesia, are pro- hibited. Imports of goods that are considered non- essential and goods that are also produced locally are restricted. A list of these restricted imports, which is revised from time to time, is published by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade. In conformity with Ministerial Decree No. 286 of 1967, imports must be made, under the super- vision of nine Commodity Boards, by publicly owned commercial companies affiliated with the Egyptian General Trade Organization. The Com- modity Boards are responsible for determining the over-all export and import policy in respect of the commodities for which they have been established. This includes the drawing up of the necessary implementation programs for the achievement of import targets in accordance with established priorities, and the examination of import offers, taking into consideration specifica- tions, prices, delivery dates, and means of pay- ment. As an exception to this system, direct imports may be made by certain industrial and other public sector establishments. Direct imports up to LE 5,000 a year may be made by industrial private sector establishments, provided that no transfer of foreign exchange is required. For purposes of administration, the economy is divided into several sectors (the agricultural, industrial, and transportation sectors, etc.). The annual foreign exchange budget provides for a specific quota for each sector, and the authorities in charge of the sector decide upon the essential goods to be imported within that quota. In draw- ing up this budget, an estimate is made first of the country's export proceeds and its earnings from invisibles, as well as the expected availability of foreign loans and other credit facilities. Allow- ance is then made for the commitments falling UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC due during the fiscal year in respect of foreign debt service and other obligations, as well as pay- ments for invisibles. The remaining resources in convertible and bilateral currencies are then allo- cated to the various sectors of the economy in accordance with the essential import requirements of each. A financing committee has been established in the Central Bank in accordance with Ministerial Decree No. 286. When import transactions pay- able in convertible currencies have been decided upon either by the Commodity Boards or by sectors having the right of direct importation, they are submitted to the committee. After its coordination of import requirements and avail- able resources, authorization is given for the implementation of the transactions, through the Egyptian General Trade Organization or the Exchange Control Department, to the bank desig- nated for the sector concerned. Advance pay- ments for imports in excess of LE 100 require the prior approval of the Exchange Control Department. Imports of new personal effects exceeding LE 100 in value and imports not requiring the transfer of foreign exchange are subject to import licenses, which are issued by the Import Control Department. All other imports are regulated by exchange allocations rather than import licenses. A statistical tax of 10 per cent is payable on imports; the tax is 5 per cent for certain highly essential foodstuffs imported by the Ministry of Supply. Payments for Invisibles Banks are authorized to provide exchange for payments for certain invisibles; for others, the prior approval of the Central Exchange Control is required. Exchange is normally made available for expenses associated with approved trade trans- actions and other current payments. Expenses for permitted travel, fam i ly maintenance, film royalties, and subscriptions and fees of profes- sional organizations usually are approved within specified quotas. Private travel abroad is usually permitted when no exchange is applied for. How- ever, U.A.R. nationals who have deposited earn- ings from their work abroad, or from services per- 479 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC formed for nonresidents, in resident convertible currency accounts, may use this foreign exchange freely for any travel expenses for themselves, their families, or their parents. An exchange tax of 5 per cent is applied to all payments for invisibles except students' remit- tances, government payments, and transfers of funds for pilgrimages. Travelers may not export Egyptian pound banknotes. Foreign tourists leaving the United Arab Republic may take with them any remain- ing foreign exchange which they had brought in and declared, but residents may not take out foreign banknotes in excess of LE 10 without specific permission. Exports and Export Proceeds Apart from exports to Israel and Rhodesia, which are prohibited, and commodities required for the national economy, whose export may be restricted, exports may be made free of license, but an export form must be submitted. Exports of many agricultural products are organized and supervised by Commodity Boards. Cotton and rice are exported by the public sector only. Export proceeds must be repatriated within three months from the date of shipment of the goods. Proceeds from exports to payments agree- ment countries must be obtained in accordance with the provisions of the relevant agreement. Some exports to specified countries may be settled through indemn i ty accounts in Egyptian pounds. Proceeds from Invisibles Physical persons who are considered nonresi- dents (emigrants of U.A.R. nationality, U.A.R. nationals who have been resident abroad for five consecutive calendar years, and foreigners who reside in the U .A .R .) are not obliged to transfer to the United Arab Republic any part of their for- eign earnings. They may retain these earnings in external nonresident accounts. U.A.R. nationals who are working abroad for a period of less than five calendar years or who perform services for nonresidents are obliged to repatriate fixed per- centages of their foreign income and may retain the balance in resident accounts in foreign cur- rencies. With these exceptions, all persons and legal entities in the United Arab Republic are 480 obliged to o f fer to authorized banks at the rate of exchange quoted by the Central Bank, within one month from the date of their collection abroad, all proceeds in foreign currencies derived from invisibles. Suez Canal dues must be received in Egyptian pounds from Shipping Accounts No. 1, which may be fed only with sales of convertible currencies or by transfers from a Free Nonresident Account. Certain travel in the United Arab Republic by nonresidents may be financed from Nonresident C Accounts or, under indemnity agreements with specified countries, from Nonresident T Accounts. Persons arriving in the United Arab Republic from abroad may not import Egyptian pound banknotes but are permitted to bring in, and to use locally, unlimited amounts in foreign exchange, subject to customs declaration. Capital Egyptian nationals who have deposited foreign earnings in external nonresident accounts in for- eign currencies in Egyptian banks may use this foreign exchange for any purpose, including trans- fer abroad. With this exception, outward capital transfers by residents are severely restricted. U.A.R. emigrants are authorized to transfer funds and/or to take out goods up to LE 200 a person or LE 500 a fam i ly. Transfers abroad by residents for the purpose of acquiring securities or other capital assets out- side the United Arab Republic require individual licenses, which normally are not granted except for transfers to some neighboring countries. The import and export of securities and similar items require licenses. Capital transfers abroad are sub- ject to an exchange tax of 5 per cent. Nonresidents may purchase freely securities on stock exchanges in the United Arab Republic against payment in foreign currencies acceptable to the Central Bank of Egypt or in Egyptian pounds by debiting an appropriate nonresident account. Certain categories of securities may be bought to the debit of blocked accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Pro- ceeds from sales of securities held under "non- resident dossier" are credited to blocked accounts. Transfers of securities between nonresidents require prior approval. Transfers abroad are per- mitted in respect of ( 1) securities drawn or ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution matured in accordance with the original terms of issue; (2) the value of life or endowment pol- icies on surrender or at maturity; (3) matured mortgages; and (4) accrued alimony under court orders up to LE 5,000. An amount not exceeding LE 5,000 a family — irrespective of whether the sum is made up of capital or income —may be released from a family's assets in the United Arab Republic to residents of foreign nationality who acquire non- resident status. Any amount above this limit is credited to a blocked account. Any payment of a capital nature not remittable under the exchange control regulations must be credited to a blocked account. The Foreign Investment Law of April 2, 1953 and Law No. 475 of 1954 define the treatment of new foreign investments that contribute to the development of the economy in the fields of industry, agriculture, metallurgy, mechanization, transport, and tourism, and establish guarantees for the transfer of net profits realized and for the repatriation of capital. Requests for transfers of profits not covered by these laws are considered on an individual basis. Cold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins and gold jewelry in the United Arab Republic. Only the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are allowed to hold or acquire gold in any other form. There is a free market for gold coins in Cairo. With the exception of monetary gold, most imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses. Changes during 1968 January 1. In implementation of the fifth stage of the Arab Common Market Agreement, cer- tain additional commodities were exempted from import and export restrictions in trade with the member states. January 26. The limit of the credit facilities under the payments agreement with the U.S.S.R. was raised to <£ 10 million. February 6. A protocol to the trade agreement with Spain was signed. It provided, among other things, that amounts due to Spain under the pay- UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC ments agreement as at December 28, 1967 would be settled in six annual installments. February 18. An exchange of letters provided that amounts due to Greece under the payments agreement as at February 18, 1968 would be set- tled in five annual installments. May 7. Law No. 19/1968 amended Law No. 80/1947 by empowering the Minister of Economic Affa irs and Foreign Trade to grant institutions other than banks the right of dealing in foreign banknotes and travelers checks. June 1. Ministerial Order No. 364 was pro- mulgated. The order introduced some basic changes in the Rules and Regulations Governing Exchange Control Operations. Thus, banks were empow- ered (1) to open external nonresident accounts in foreign currencies in the names of nonresidents or persons treated as nonresidents, irrespective of the place of residence of the account holder; and (2) to open resident accounts in foreign cur- rencies in the names of U.A.R. nationals who are or have been employed abroad or who per- form services for nonresidents. U.A.R. nationals would be deemed nonresidents for exchange con- trol purposes upon emigration or after they had been resident abroad for five consecutive calen- dar years. Similarly, foreigners holding residence cards valid for not less than five calendar years were regarded as nonresidents in respect of any income accruing to them abroad. Banks were per- mitted to hold positions in foreign currencies corresponding to the balances in the above foreign currency accounts, and to execute the payments instructions of the holders of such accounts with- out requesting prior exchange control approval. Nonresidents and persons considered nonresidents could receive interest on these accounts in foreign currency; residents could receive interest in Egyp- tian pounds only. June 1. The limit of the credit facilities under the payments agreement with Iraq was raised to <£1.75 million. June 6. An exchange of letters provided that amounts due to Yugoslavia under the payments agreement as at June 30, 1968 would be settled in four equal installments. June 12. Two special accounts in the name of the Bank of Greece were opened by the Cen- 481 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC tral Bank of Egypt, for the use of indemnification payments granted to Greek citizens. June 18. The limit of the credit facilities under the payments agreement with Algeria was raised to US$0.75 million. July 4. The limit of the credit facilities under the payments agreement with mainland China was changed to <£3 million. July 27. Ministerial Order No. 488 established that export policy would be based on the follow- ing principles: (1) Exports of traditional prod- ucts were conducted according to annual policies formulated by the responsible specialized organi- zations and commodity boards. With the excep- tion of cotton and rice, which continued to be exported by the public sector, traditional products could be exported by both the private and public sectors. (2) All nontraditional exports could be exported freely by private or public firms and companies to any market. (3) Exports of cer- tain commodities essential for local consumption could only be effected when the authorities were assured of the existence of a surplus, in which case global quotas would be established. July 30. The Central Bank of Egypt opened a special account in the name of the Bank of France for the use of indemnification payments made to French nationals. Balances could be used in payment for U.A.R. exports to France of commodities other than cotton, rice, and petro- leum, provided that 50 per cent of each import payment was settled in convertible currency. August 19. The reciprocal credit facilities for the financing of special transactions with Came- roon were terminated. Henceforth, all payments would take place in convertible currencies. September 1. The bilateral payments agree- ment with Libya was terminated. Henceforth, all payments would take place in convertible cur- rencies. 482 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Pound Sterling or <£ 1 = US$2.40. Market rates for spot exchange transactions in U.S. dol- lars are maintained between official limits of US$2.42 buying, and US$2.38 selling, per <£!. Market rates for spot transactions in other con- vertible or externally convertible currencies (except those currencies for which quotations are based on sterling, e.g., Australian dollars and New Zealand dollars) are free to move within a range of rates resulting from the official dollar limits of the United Kingdom in relation to the dollar limits of the other countries concerned. Authorized banks may, subject to the observance of limits upon the accumulation of spot foreign exchange, carry out forward transactions at rates which may fluctuate under the influence of market forces. Transactions with resident customers may be entered into only for approved purposes and, where there is an underlying commercial con- tract, in the currency of the contract. Authorized banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currencies except the Rhodesian pound. The authorized banks may deal among them- selves and with residents and nonresidents in foreign notes and coins (other than Rhodesian currency) at free market rates of exchange. There is also a market in which the foreign exchange proceeds (referred to as investment currency) resulting mainly from the sale outside the Sterling Area of foreign currency securities1 or direct investments owned by residents may be negotiated at freely determined rates, usually attracting a premium over the official market rate; at the end of 1968, that premium was about 47 per cent. These funds are available for reinvestment in mar- ketable foreign currency securities and for certain approved direct investments outside the Sterling Area. In another market the foreign exchange 1 The term "foreign currency securities" in this survey is generally to be read as mean ing securities expressed in a currency of a country outside the Sterling Area. Special regulations, however, are applicable to foreign currency securities payable in Rhodesian pounds. All other securities are regarded as sterling securities. The term "securities" includes certificates of deposit and trea- sury bills. proceeds (referred to as property currency) resulting from the sale outside the Sterling Area of property (ma in ly houses and apar tmen ts) owned by residents may be negotiated at freely determined rates; the premium over the official market rate was about 37 per cent at the end of 1968. These funds are available, with specific permission, for the purchase of a house or apart- ment for personal use in a country outside the Sterling Area (other than Rhodesia), for atten- dant expenses, and for improvements to such property. The United Kingdom accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory Exchange control is not imposed on transac- tions with other parts of the Sterling Area ("Scheduled Territories" in the nomenclature of the U.K. exchange control).2 Exceptionally, ster- ling payments to Hong Kong are screened under Hong Kong regulations to ensure that residents in other parts of the Sterling Area do not have access to Hong Kong's free market, and special restrictions are imposed on the disposal of ster- ling assets of residents of Hong Kong. Control is also exercised over the acquisition of foreign currency securities from the rest of the Sterling Area. With respect to outward capital transfers, a program of voluntary restraint applies to direct and portfolio investment in the more developed countries of the Sterling Area (Australia, Ireland, New Zealand, and South A f r ica ), and to port- folio investment in countries outside the Sterling Area (see section on Capital, below). 2 In addition to the United Kingdom, the Sterling Area comprises Australia, Barbados, Botswana, Ceylon, Cyprus, The Gambia, Ghana, Guyana, Iceland, India, Irish Republic, Jamaica, Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, Kenya, State of Kuwait, Lesotho, Libya, Malawi, Malaysia, Malta, Mauritius, New Zealand, Nigeria, Pakistan, West- ern Samoa, Sierra Leone, Singapore, South Africa, South-West Africa, People's Republic of Southern Yemen, Swaziland, Tanzania, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, and Zambia, together with all British Dominions, Protector- ates, Protected States, and Trust Territories not previ- ously mentioned, except Canada and Rhodesia. The Maldive Islands and Nau ru are administratively treated as being w i th in the Sterling Area. 483 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM Administration of Control Exchange control in the United Kingdom is administered by the Bank of England on behalf of the U.K. Treasury, as is the voluntary restraint program on certain outward investment. How- ever, practically all commercial banks are autho- rized to approve most current payments requiring exchange control permission. The licensing of imports and exports is handled by the Board of Trade. Prescription of Currency Receipts from countries in the Sterling Area may be in any Sterling Area currency; those from countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia must be in sterling from an External Account or in any non-Sterling Area currency (other than Rhodesian pounds), which must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Payments to countries in the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency; payments to coun- tries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made by crediting sterling to an External Account or in any non-Sterling Area currency except Rhodesian pounds. For security reasons, settlements with Rhodesia are subject to special regulations generally prescribing the use of Rhodesian Accounts, Suspense Accounts, or, in certain circumstances, the Rhodesian Special Account with the Standard Bank, London. How- ever, unless specifically included among the per- mitted debits to Rhodesian Accounts, all com- mercial payments, except those in respect of exports, due from persons resident in Rhodesia to residents of the United Kingdom must be received either in a non-Sterling Area currency (other than Rhodesian pounds) or, with the specific permission of the Bank of England, in sterling from the Rhodesian Special Account; payments for exports from the United Kingdom to Rhodesia shipped on or after December 18, 1965 must be received in advance of shipment in a non- Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds, or, with the specific approval of the Bank of England, in sterling from the Rhodesian Special Account. Persons normally resident in Rhodesia who are living temporarily in the United Kingdom as students or workers may open Temporary Resi- dent Accounts in sterling with authorized banks in the United Kingdom; debits to such accounts 484 are generally permitted only for living expenses within the United Kingdom. Nonresident Accounts The sterling accounts of residents of other parts of the Sterling Area (except Hong Kong) are treated in the same way as those of residents of the United Kingdom. Thus, for transfers within the Sterling Area no U.K. exchange control per- mission is required; for payments to other coun- tries by residents of any territory of the Sterling Area, the authorized banks are required to ensure that the payment has the approval of the exchange control authority in the territory con- cerned. External Accounts. With the exception of Rhodesian Accounts and the Rhodesian Special Account (see below), the sterling accounts of nonresidents, i.e., those of residents of countries outside the Sterling Area, are designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited with authorized payments by residents of the Sterling Area, with transfers from other External Accounts, with the proceeds from sales of gold or non-Sterling Area currency other than Rho- desian pounds (including banknotes), and with sterling banknotes mailed from outside the Ster- ling Area. External Accounts may be debited freely for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, for transfers to Rhodesian Accounts other than in payment for certain goods exported from Rho- desia, for payments in cash in the United King- dom, and for purchases of any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds (includ- ing banknotes) or gold. Rhodesian Accounts. These accounts are appli- cable to residents of Rhodesia only. Permitted credits include transfers from External Accounts other than in payment for certain goods exported from Rhodesia; payments by residents of Sterling Area territories other than the United Kingdom to residents of Rhodesia, subject to the approval of the exchange control authority in the territory concerned; and payments by U.K. residents to residents of Rhodesia in respect of (1) the sale of non-Sterling Area currencies other than Rho- desian pounds, (2) the discount or maturity pro- ceeds of U.K. Treasury bills, (3) permitted imports from Rhodesia which have entered cus- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution toms in the United Kingdom, (4) insurance and freight charges resulting from permitted trade between Rhodesia and any Sterling Area territory, ( 5) insurance claims directly related to such per- mitted trade, (6) pensions and widows' annu i t ies where associated with the deceased husband's employment, and ( 7) charges and fees relating to patents, designs, and trademarks registered in Rhodesia, Zambia, or Malawi. Permitted debits include transfers to the Rho- desian Special Account in respect of pensions and widows' annuities; payments for living expenses in the United Kingdom of persons resident in Rhodesia and their families; authorized purchases of sterling securities to be held for the account holder; purchases in the United Kingdom of treasury bills to be held for the account holder; payments to residents of the Sterling Area for ( 1) interest on and repayment of outstanding personal loans, advances, and overdrafts granted before November 11, 1965, (2) patents, designs, trademarks, and royalties, (3) distributions from Rhodesian estates and trusts, and (4) subscrip- tions to newspapers and other periodicals; and payments to U.K. residents for (a) expenses aris- ing out of property in the United Kingdom owned on or before November 11, 1965, (b) taxes, (c) educational fees and incidental expenses, (d) in- surance prem iums and capital and annu i ty pay- ments on personal policies taken out on or before November 11, 1965, (e) medical fees, (f) gifts and maintenance not exceeding £250 for any one payment, to ind iv idua ls and charitable or reli- gious organizations, and (g) bank and safe cus- tody charges. Transfers between Rhodesian Accounts and from Rhodesian Accounts to External Accounts are not allowed. Suspense Accounts. Unless eligible for credit to Rhodesian Accounts or to the Rhodesian Spe- cial Account, payments to persons resident in Rhodesia must be withheld; the funds may be placed on Suspense Accounts and, except with the specific permission of the Bank of England, may only be ( 1) used to meet U.K. tax payments and safe custody charges due on the monies in question, or (2) placed on deposit with banks or other financial institutions in the name of the U.K. resident by whom they are held. Permission is normally given for residents of Rhodesia to use Suspense Account monies to purchase sterling securities on a recognized stock exchange in the UNITED KINGDOM United Kingdom and to purchase U.K. Treasury bills and savings bonds and certificates. Permis- sion is only given for them to purchase Rhodesian securities, however, when the funds for the pur- chase are derived from the sale proceeds of other Rhodesian securities. The Rhodesian Special Account. This is an account operated by the Rhodesia House staff in London and maintained with the Standard Bank, London. Pensions and associated payments due to beneficiaries in Rhodesia from residents of the Sterling Area, and pensions due from Rhodesia to residents of the United Kingdom and most other parts of the Sterling Area, are normally settled through this account. Corresponding trans- fers from Rhodesian Accounts in the names of individuals to the Rhodesian Special Account are freely permitted. Permission is not normally given for payments of any other nature to be credited to the Rhodesian Special Account. Subject to spe- cific approval by the Bank of England, any bal- ance on the Special Account may be used to meet the cost of permitted exports to Rhodesia from the Sterling Area and of services provided by resi- dents of the Sterling Area for account of persons resident in Rhodesia. Imports and Import Payments For import licensing purposes, countries out- side the United Kingdom other than Rhodes ia3 are divided into five groups: other Sterling Area countries, the Dollar Area ,4 Japan,5 the Eastern Area,6 and all other countries. Imports from countries other than Rhodesia and those in the Eastern Area are admitted under an Open General License without restriction, with the following exceptions: ( a) f rom all other coun- 3 For security reasons, imports from Rhodesia are con- tro l led by import licensing; v i r tua l ly all are prohibited. 4 The Dollar Area comprises Bolivia, Canada, Colom- b ia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dom in ican Repub l ic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Gua tema la, Haiti, Honduras, Liberia, Mex- ico, N icaragua, Panama, Philippines, United States, and Venezuela. 5 Japan w i ll u l t ima te ly cease to be treated as in a category by i tse lf. For a t rans i t ional period, certain items con t inue to be restricted. 6 The Eastern Area comprises A lban ia, Bulgaria, ma in- land Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ge rmany, Hunga ry, No r th Korea, People's Republic of Mongolia, Poland, R um a n i a, U.S.S.R., and Nor th V ie t-Nam. 485 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM tries, 14 commodities or groups of commodities;7 (b) from all other countries except the Sterling Area, 3 commodities or groups of commodities; and (c) from the Dollar Area only, 6 commod- ities or groups of commodities. Imports from countries in the Eastern Area are admitted under an Open General License without restriction if they appear in a specific list, which covers a range of raw materials, minerals, metals, and some manufactured and semimanufactured goods. A wide range of other manufactured goods may be imported from Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hun- gary, and Poland without quantitative restriction under open individual license. All other imports from the Eastern Area require a specific import license. Most articles subject to restriction can be imported in limited quantities under bilateral or global quotas. Some imports are prohibited from all non-Sterling Area sources. These are coal, coke, and solid fuels manufactured from coal or coke, and whole hams, other than hams preserved in airtight containers. Imports of cereals and cereal products are subject to m in imum import prices enforced through variable import levies. Under the Customs (Import Deposits) Act 1968, an import deposit of 50 per cent of the value of the goods payable at the time of entry into customs is required for most goods other than basic foods, feeding s tu f fs, fuel, certain cate- gories of goods imported mainly from developing countries, and goods for re-export or those used in the production or manufacture of exports. The deposit has to be paid to the customs at the time of entry of the goods into the United Kingdom and it is repayable, without interest, after 180 days to the person by whom it was made; the deposit does not necessarily have to be made by the importer. Residents of the United Kingdom are not normally permitted to borrow sterling from nonresidents or foreign currency, either from authorized banks or from nonresidents, to finance import deposits. The requirement to make the deposit applies irrespective of the origin of the goods. Permission to import from countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia, whether under Open General License or some other form of 7 Coffee and coffee preparations from all sources require a specific license to ensure compliance w i th the In te rna t ional Coffee Agreement. 486 license, carries with it an entitlement to purchase non-Sterling Area currency or to credit sterling to an External Account to pay for the import, provided that evidence of customs entry is sub- mitted or evidence that the goods have been dispatched to the United Kingdom or are to be dispatched immediately on receipt of payment. Advance payments for imports are approved by the Bank of England in all cases where the pay- ment is considered genuine and in accordance with the traditions of the trade and the continu- ance of the practice is considered to be essential. Exchange control forms are not required for pay- ments to residents of the Sterling Area; neither are they required for payments to residents of other countries, unless the payment represents part or final settlement for goods for which the total amount payable exceeds <£ 2,000 and evi- dence of importation cannot be presented to the bank before making the remittance, or unless non-Sterling Area currency exceeding the equiva- lent of <£250 is being bought forward. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made freely. Pay- ments to residents of countries outside the Ster- ling Area require exchange control authorization, which (except for payments to residents of Rho- desia)8 is granted freely for all purposes other than travel and sterling usance credits to finance trade between countries outside the Sterling Area, subject to the presentation of supporting evidence. The completion of an exchange control form is required for payments exceeding <£250 or its equivalent. Authorized banks are permitted to approve applications for transfers on account of many categories of current invisibles without any limitation, and for other categories up to estab- lished limits. Except for travel, applications for payments in excess of these limits or for purposes for which no delegation of authority has been granted are approved by the Bank of England, 8 For security reasons, v i r tua l ly all current paymen ts to Rhodesia are prohibited, except when these result f rom permitted trade in goods. Transfers of reasonable amoun ts are permitted, however, for charitable, religious, medical, and educa t ional purposes, provided that similar remittances were made prior to November 11, 1965, and to relieve hardship. Small personal g if ts are also per- mitted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution provided that no unauthorized capital outflow is involved. Authorized banks may dispatch sterling bank- notes to nonresidents except residents of Rho- desia against payment in sterling from an External Account or in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian pounds. An allowance of up to <£50 a person a year in non-Sterling Area currency other than Rho- desian pounds may be made available to residents by banks and authorized travel agents for per- sonal travel outside the Sterling Area except to Rhodesia; an additional <£25 may be made available to persons aged 70 or more and to children up to the age of 18 traveling in parties arranged by schools or by youth organizations. Banks and authorized travel agents may also, sub- ject to the submission of an appropriate medical certificate, make available up to <£ 7 a day for a max imum of three months in respect of travel undertaken for health reasons. In addition, they may make available an allowance of <£25 for a person wishing to attend the funeral of a close relative abroad. For travel for business or profes- sional reasons, including attendance at confer- ences, an allowance of up to .£20 a day, for up to two months, may similarly be made available by banks and authorized travel agents. Applica- tions for larger amounts for business or profes- sional travel must be referred to the Bank of England, and each case is considered on its merits. Except as indicated above, or where full- time education is being undertaken outside the Sterling Area (see below), applications for more than <£50 for private travel within a period of a year must be similarly referred, but are sympathetically considered only for persons suf- fe r ing from a physical disability and persons visit- ing sick or elderly relatives. The above travel allowances are exclusive of the payments of fares for transport forming an integral part of the main journey, the cost of which is not limited, provided that payment is made in sterling in the United Kingdom; separate provisions, however, are in effect for cruises and for payments in respect of yachts and other vessels and aircraft used for pri- vate purposes that have a small fuel-carrying capacity. All travel exchange purchased must be recorded in the traveler's passport, as must the amount of non-Sterling Area expenditure for accommodation, etc., that has been settled in ster- UNITED KINGDOM ling in the United Kingdom; this amount ("the V-form content") is deducted from the appropriate travel allowance. Any unused travel exchange must be surrendered within one month of issue or upon re turn to the United Kingdom, if later. In addition, resident travelers may take with them up to <£ 15 in U.K. and other Sterling Area bank- notes, which may be exchanged or spent abroad only for travel expenditure; but those traveling direct to the Irish Republic or the Channel Islands may take out any amount. Visitors are, in addition, allowed to take out any notes that they brought in with them, other than notes in excess of .£15 expressed in the currencies of the United King- dom or the Irish Republic. Authorized banks are permitted to approve, within certain limits and subject to the submission of appropriate documentary evidence of the amounts due, applications to pay fees, accommo- dation charges, and all incidental expenses arising from the education of U.K. residents outside the Sterling Area. Special regulations apply to all travel to Rhode- sia. For approved official and essential business journeys the Bank of England will authorize the issue of non-Sterling Area currency at a rate of up to <£10 a day with a maximum of £.250. Facil- ities for private travel are authorized only where there are strong compassionate grounds. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are subject to licens- ing control; all exports to other destinations are free of license, except for a limited number of items, principally strategic in character. Virtually all exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Except for exports to Rhodesia, completion of exchange control forms is waived for exports not exceeding <£ 2,000 f.o.b., other than gifts in kind, for which the upper limit is £100 f.o.b. Exporters to coun- tries outside the Sterling Area other than Rho- desia must obtain appropriate payment within six months of shipment, unless special permis- sion has been granted to collect at a later date. Receipts in non-Sterling Area currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Permitted exports to Rhodesia must be paid for prior to shipment in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds or, if specific permission is granted by the Bank of England, in sterling from the Rhodesian Special Account. 487 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in non-Sterling Area currencies on account of invisibles must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Recipients of such cur- rencies may, however, be permitted to retain their exchange in controlled accounts if it is needed for operating purposes. British and other banknotes may be brought into the United Kingdom freely. Capital Residents of the United Kingdom who receive the currency of a country outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesian pounds from certain capital account sources (ma in ly the sale or redemption of foreign currency securities and the sale or liquidation of direct investments situated outside the Sterling Area) may, in certain cir- cumstances and with permission, use the exchange (wh ich is regarded as investment currency once permission has been given) for the purchase abroad of marketable foreign currency securities or sell the exchange for sterling to other residents to be used for the same purpose. If permission is not forthcoming, the foreign currency must be offered for sale at the rates ruling in the official market to an authorized bank in the United Kingdom. If permission is granted, however, the equivalent in non-Sterling Area currency of 25 per cent of the proceeds must be sold to an authorized bank for sterling at the official market rate of exchange.9 In certain circumstances, resi- dents of the United Kingdom who are foreign nationals and have obtained exemption from their liabilities under the Exchange Control Act in respect of assets denominated in the currency of the country of their nationality may obtain per- mission for exempted cash balances and the sale proceeds of exempted securities to be treated as investment currency. Residents of the United Kingdom who receive non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds from the sale to nonresidents of house property outside the Sterling Area except in Rho- desia may, w i th the permission of the Bank of 9 A similar 25 per cent requirement normally applies to transactions by residents of other parts of the Sterling Area; however, for securities owned prior to Ap r il 7, 1965, or any other fore ign currency securities derived the re f rom by way of "switches," the requ irement applies only on ou t r ight sales for sterling or for reinvestment in sterling securities. 488 England, retain the currency as property cur- rency. The currency, which is transferable to other residents, may, subject to individual approval, be used for purchases of house property outside the Sterling Area except in Rhodesia. With respect to outward capital transfers, there is a program of voluntary restraint on direct and portfolio investment in the more developed coun- tries of the Sterling Area (Australia, Ireland, New Zealand, and South A f r ica) and on portfolio investment in countries outside the Sterling Area.10 The aim for direct investment in these four Ster- ling Area countries is that for the time being it should be postponed wherever possible or arrangements made to finance it by appropriate borrowing abroad or by using normally retained profits (i.e., the average level retained over a representative period in the recent pas t). Firms and individuals wishing to proceed are asked to consult the Bank of England regarding any invest- ment over .£25,000. The Bank will examine their plans to see whether they promise an early, substantial, and continuing benefit to the United Kingdom's balance of payments, the criterion being the same as that applied to direct invest- ments outside the Sterling Area (see below). Proposals are readily acceptable where this criterion is met or where the money is to be borrowed abroad or provided from local resources, as above. The aim for portfolio invest- ment is that over a period of time there should be no significant increase above the level on May 3, 1966 in total holdings by any one institutional investor of either securities denominated in non- Sterling Area currencies10 or securities denomi- nated in the currencies of the four Sterling Area countries mentioned. There are no restrictions on capital transfers by residents of the United King- dom to the other Sterling Area countries, except Hong Kong (see section on Exchange Control Territory, above). All capital transfers by residents to countries outside the Sterling Area require approval. Each individual resident of the United Kingdom may, from his own resources, make cash gifts not exceeding a total of <£50, or the equivalent in for- eign currency, during each calendar year to non- 10 The program of vo lun ta ry restraint ceased to apply to portfolio investment in countries outside the Sterling Area on April 15, 1969. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution residents. The cash gifts allowance is noncumula- tive and is not transferable from one resident to another. For security reasons, no capital transfers are allowed to Rhodesia, whether in the form of direct investment or of the purchase of Rhodesian secu- rities, or by any other means. For direct invest- ments outside the Sterling Area, official exchange is not made available, except for certain projects directly concerned with promoting exports of goods and services where the prospective benefit to the U.K. balance of payments is expected to equal or exceed the total cost of the investment within 18 months and to continue thereafter; this benefit will normally occur by way of additional export receipts, but may also arise from profits and other foreign currency receipts that would not take place without the investment. For such proj- ects, official exchange may be made available up to <£ 50,000 or 50 per cent of the total invest- ment, whichever is larger; any balance must be financed by foreign currency borrowing, the use of investment currency, or the export free of pay- ment of capital equipment and stock-in-trade. Direct investments which either do not exceed <£25,000 or, if larger, promise an early, substan- tial benefit to the U.K. balance of payments at least equalling the cost of the original capital out- lay within two to three years and continuing there- after may be financed by purchasing investment currency, by exports free of payment, or by bor- rowing non-Sterling Area currency. Other approved direct investments in excess of <£ 25,000 must be financed by long-term borrowing (i.e., for at least five years) in non-Sterling Area cur- rencies, including nonresident-owned deposits with U.K. banks. The purchase of foreign currency securities outside the Sterling Area must also be financed with investment currency or, in some cases, by long-term borrowing outside the Sterling Area; purchases of marketable foreign currency securi- ties with investment currency are freely permitted by virtue of certain general permissions granted to banks, stockbrokers, and other authorized depositories, but net purchases by institutional investors are governed by the voluntary restraint program (see footnote 10). The purchase by U.K. residents of a house or apartment for personal use in countries outside the Sterling Area requires specific UNITED KINGDOM approval and must be made either from another U.K. resident for sterling or from a nonresident with property currency; payment for attendant expenses and improvements, but not maintenance, must also be made with property currency. Approval is normally limited to one property a family, and purchases of property currency are limited to reasonable amounts. All proceeds from the realization, redemption, or ma tur i ty of sterling capital assets (including direct investments) owned by nonresidents other than residents of Rhodesia are remittable at the official rate of exchange. Payments to nonresi- dent beneficiaries are authorized freely in respect of inheritances due from the estates of deceased residents; so also are capital payments under life and other insurance policies taken up by non- residents with resident insurance companies. Residents of the United Kingdom who leave with the intention of residing for at least three years in a country outside the Sterling Area are, on their departure from the United Kingdom, regarded for exchange control purposes as non- residents, and, with the following exceptions, their assets are treated accordingly. Repatriates (non- Sterling Area nationals, other than Rhodesians, who having been resident in the United King- dom return to take up residence in their country of na t iona l i ty) may normally transfer all their sterling assets abroad at the official rate of exchange. Other residents leaving to take up resi- dence in countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia are granted a settling-in allow- ance of up to <£5,000 in foreign exchange for a fam i ly unit and may export any foreign cur- rency securities they hold; the remaining declared assets in excess of <£ 5,000 are restricted for a four-year period from the date of the departing person's redesignation as a nonresident. During that period the funds may be disposed of for non- Sterling Area currencies other than Rhodesian pounds through the investment currency market, or may be invested in any sterling securities, the income therefrom being freely remittable through the official exchange market. Af ter the four-year period any remaining assets are transferable in accordance with the rules then applicable to the assets of a nonresident. The participation of foreign capital as a direct investment in the United Kingdom is subject to 489 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM individual authorization, which is normally granted, provided that adequate capital for the project is supplied in an approved manner of payment (see section on Presciption of Currency, above) or by the import of goods and services; the non-Sterling Area currency received must be surrendered at rates ruling in the official market. Cases involving the take-over of existing compa- nies that by their size or na ture constitute a vital part of British industry are considered on their merits. Permissions given for direct investments in the United Kingdom by nonresidents are, unless otherwise agreed with the Bank of England, con- ditional on the consideration being paid in sterling from an External Account or in non-Sterling Area currency (other than Rhodesian pounds) and any subsequent finance being similarly provided at least in proportion to the nonresident interest in the equity of the company. Foreign-owned firms and foreign individuals must obtain Treasury permission in order to raise capital in the United Kingdom, and U.K. resident subsidiaries of foreign companies are required to obtain consent from the Treasury before borrow- ing in the United Kingdom or before issuing shares or other securities to nonresidents. Such permission is normally given for borrowing for the purpose of financing the company's day-to- day business, but is not normally given for any expansion of manufac tur ing capacity except for companies whose activities are regarded as bring- ing special advantages to the U.K. economy. Transactions in securities of all types may be carried out freely between residents of the United Kingdom, except that transactions in Rhodesian securities may only be effected on a recognized stock exchange in the United Kingdom. Residents are permitted, subject to certain conditions, to sell foreign currency securities outside the Sterling Area, and, after 25 per cent of the proceeds has been sold to an authorized bank at the official market rate of exchange, to reinvest the balance of the exchange proceeds (investment currency) in other marketable foreign currency securities, or to sell the exchange to other residents for such investments or for approved direct investments outside the Sterling Area which qualify for invest- ment currency. When foreign currency securities are sold on a U.K. stock exchange for sterling, an amount of investment currency in the form of non-Sterling Area currency (other than Rho- 490 desian pounds) equivalent to 25 per cent of the sale proceeds must be purchased in the invest- ment currency market for resale to an authorized bank at the official market rate of exchange. Pro- fessional dealers making a "book" and certain other operators may on application be exempt from the 25 per cent requirement for certain of their operations.11 Investment currency held for a continuous period of six months ceases to be investment currency unless an amount of invest- ment currency in the form of non-Sterling Area currency (other than Rhodesian pounds) equiv- alent to 25 per cent of the amount held is, at the end of the six-month period, sold to an authorized bank at the current market rate in the official for- eign exchange market. Investment currency may only be retained as investment currency for a maximum of twelve months, after which period any amount remaining must be offered for sale to an authorized bank at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market.12 U.K. invest- ment trusts and un it trusts are permitted, subject to certain conditions, to borrow non-Sterling Area currency outside the Sterling Area at long term, for the purpose of making portfolio investments in foreign currency securities. U.K. jobbers and other security dealers may, with permission, ar- range day-to-day borrowing of non-Sterling Area currency, whether from U.K. banks or from non- residents, to finance a "book" in foreign currency securities, but not to finance holdings of such securities as investments. Residents of other parts of the Sterling Area are not prevented by the U.K. regulations from buying and selling sterling securities in the United Kingdom; they may also buy and sell Rhodesian securities on a recognized stock exchange in the United Kingdom, but they must obtain the per- mission of the U.K. authorities to buy and sell other securities in the United Kingdom. Permission is required for all transfers of secu- rities in the United Kingdom in which a nonresi- dent is involved as either transferor or transferee, 11 Mainly investment trusts and members of the insur- ance ma rke t. 12 Investment currency m ay be invested temporarily in short-term government bonds (w i th up to six months to run before final m a tu r i ty) or in six-month treasury bills or other forms of recognized short-term money ma rket paper ( inc lud ing certificates of deposit) w i thout incur- ring the need to comply with the 25 per cent requirement on resale of the paper. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution but most transfers are covered by a general authority. In most cases, U.K. companies do not require prior authorization to issue sterling bearer securities. Nonresidents except Rhodesian residents may buy any securities (including officially quoted foreign currency securities) on a recognized stock exchange in the United Kingdom against pay- ment from an External Account. Securities so purchased may be exported from the United Kingdom. Foreign currency securities may be sold by nonresidents on a stock exchange in the United Kingdom for settlement only in non-Ster- ling Area currency. In no circumstances may settlement be in sterling. Nonresidents must obtain permission to buy securities in the United Kingdom other than on a stock exchange, whether or not the securities are quoted on a stock exchange. Nonresidents other than Rhodesian residents may sell sterling securities in the United Kingdom for External Account sterling and freely transfer the proceeds abroad at official market rates. All transactions in securities by or on behalf of residents of Rhodesia require the specific approval of the Bank of England. Warrants issued by registrars, company secre- taries, and paying agents in respect of capital pay- ments on matured securities registered in the names of nonresidents other than Rhodesian resi- dents may be dispatched freely to addressees out- side the Sterling Area, and these warrants may be paid by crediting sterling to an External Account. Gold Residents of the United Kingdom may not buy, hold, or sell gold bullion or gold coin without permission. General exemption from these restric- tions has been given in respect of gold coins minted in or before 1837. In addition, no resident is allowed to hold more than four gold coins minted after 1837, and which were in his pos- session on April 26, 1966, without special exchange control permission; sales of post-1837 gold coins also require permission unless made at the current London market price through an authorized dealer in gold or a trader in coin or a coin dealer or auctioneer specifically authorized. With these exceptions, residents of the United Kingdom other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not permitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold in UNITED KINGDOM any form other than jewelry, whether at home or abroad, unless they are specifically or generally permitted to do so; permission is granted restric- tively and is generally limited to established gen- uine domestic requirements for industrial and pro- fessional purposes, and, for gold coins, to numis- matists authorized to maintain a collection of gold coins. The manufacture of medals, medallions (including imitation co ins), plaques, and other pieces in pictorial relief or bearing inscriptions is not permitted except for export and for academic and sporting awards, and for pieces weighing 5 pennyweights or less or of a value not more than <£2 10s. Od. The Mint from time to time strikes gold sover- eigns. Although legal tender, these do not circu- late in the United Kingdom. It is an offense to melt down gold or silver coin which is current in the United Kingdom or in any British possession or foreign country except under license granted by the Treasury; such licenses are not granted. The import by any resident of the United Kingdom of gold bullion and gold coins minted over 100 years ago is on Open General License, but the holding of, or dealing with, such bullion or coins is subject to restrictions, as stated above. The import of gold coins minted less than 100 years ago is restricted to authorized dealers in gold holding the necessary license from the Board of Trade. The export of gold bullion and all gold coins requires prior exchange control approval. Authority has been given to authorized dealers in gold to issue licenses in respect of exports of gold bullion and coin purchased by any non-Sterling Area resident in the London gold market against payment in External Account sterling or non- Sterling Area currency. A license is required from the Board of Trade for the export of gold jewelry, etc., containing diamonds. The export of gold in manufactured form over 100 years old and valued at <£ 2,000 and over also requires a Board of Trade license. Imports of gold jewelry and of articles con- taining a minor quan t i ty of gold, such as watches, require a license from the Board of Trade and are liberalized from all sources except the Eastern Area (see footnote 6) and Rhodesia, most of these articles being covered by open general licenses; the import of medals, medallions, and 491 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM plaques, however, is prohibited from all sources when exceeding 5 pennyweights in weight or £2 10s. Od. in value. The import of semimanu- factured gold from the Eastern Area requires Board of Trade approval. There is a free gold market in London in which gold bars are freely traded among (1) authorized dealers in gold, ( 2) any nonresidents of the Ster- ling Area, and (3) residents of the Sterling Area who are sellers of new production. The U.K. authorities do not intervene in the market as either buyers or sellers. A commission of % of 1 per cent is charged on all purchases; there is no commission on sales. The market operates on a spot cash basis. Autho- rized banks may not enter into forward transac- tions in gold without prior permission from the Bank of England. Banks may not finance pur- chases of gold by nonresidents by lending foreign exchange or by accepting gold as collateral for advances in non-Sterling Area currencies or External Account sterling to nonresidents of the Sterling Area. Changes during 1968 January 1. Imports of toys and pottery from Japan no longer required an individual import license. January 26. Certain administrative and proce- dural changes were made in the exchange control rules governing foreign currency securities. January 30. Official exchange was again made available for certain direct investment outside the Sterling Area. Access to official exchange could, subject to permission, be given up to £50,000 or 50 per cent of the planned invest- ment (whichever was more) for those projects directly concerned with promoting exports of goods or services, the prospective benefit of which to the United Kingdom's balance of payments was expected to equal or exceed the total cost of the investment within 18 months and to continue thereafter. February 9. The authority was widened by which authorized banks could sell non-Sterling Area notes and coins to residents to enable them to make permitted payments to nonresidents of the Sterling Area. 492 February 19. The commodity market scheme for metals was extended to cover trading in silver. February 20. Further minor administrative and procedural changes were made in the exchange control rules governing foreign currency securities. March 15. Operations in the London gold market were suspended. March 17. The gold pool arrangements were terminated. It was announced that there would in fu tu re be no official intervention in the London gold market. March 19. It was announced that the volun- tary program restricting direct investment in Aus- tralia, Ireland, New Zealand, and South Africa would be continued for another year without change. March 29. In anticipation of the reopening of the London gold market new rules were estab- lished for the five firms operating in that market. A commission of % of 1 per cent was fixed for all purchases; no commission was to be levied on sales. It was announced that there would be two price fixing sessions a day. In order to discourage speculation, the Bank of England announced that authorized banks might not enter into forward transactions without its prior permission, and might not finance the purchase of gold by non- residents of the Sterling Area either by lending foreign exchange or by accepting gold as collat- eral for foreign exchange advances to nonresi- dents. March 31. The export rebates, which were applicable mainly to various broad categories of industrial commodities, irrespective of destination, were discontinued. The Treasury retained author- ity to reintroduce them at any time if necessary. April 1. The global quota scheme for butter was continued. A global quota was introduced for "near-butters." April 1. The London gold market was reopened. April 4. The authorities for authorized banks to approve payments outside the Sterling Area for education were amended: boarding charges could not be paid more than one term in advance and no application could be approved for a period shorter than one academic term. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution April 16. The prohibition for health reasons on meat imports f rom specified countries was lifted, except for imports of lamb and mutton. May 8. The Bank of England granted permis- sion to certain discount houses to deal as princi- ples in bills of exchange drawn in currencies other than sterling. May 13. The commodity market scheme for vegetable oil was extended to cover trading in sunflowerseed oil. May 23. Fixed-rate lending under the special schemes for export and shipbuilding finance was brought under a new over-all ceiling on bank lending to the private sector and to borrowers abroad. June 4. Exports of more than ten U.K. silver coins minted before 1947 were made subject to individual export licenses. The new export con- trol did not apply to coins more than 100 years old at the time of exportation, these being cov- ered by the control on the export of antiques. The Government would seek powers to prohibit the melting down in the United Kingdom of demon- etized coins except by, or with the authority of, the Treasury. June 14. The Southern Rhodesia (United Nations Sanctions) Order 1968 came into opera- tion. June 28. The value limitation on imports of gold medals, medallions, etc., was raised to £2 10s. Od. July 3. The Southern Rhodesia (United Nations Sanctions) (No. 2) Order 1968 came into operation. It revoked and replaced the Southern Rhodesia (Un i ted Nations Sanctions) Order 1968. July 26. The Exchange Control Act 1947 and the Emergency Laws (Re-Enactments and Re- peals) Act 1964 were modified by Section 55 of the Finance Act 1968. As a result, certificates of deposit and government bills, including in particu- lar treasury bills, became "securities" w i th in the meaning of the Exchange Control Act 1947. UNITED KINGDOM August 5. The facilities to borrow non-Sterling Area currencies to finance portfolio investment in foreign currency securities were made available to certain un it trusts. August 7. Overseas governments were requested to restrict exports of cheddar and cheddar-type cheese to the U.K. market in the period up to March 31, 1969. On November 6, the proposed period of restraint was lengthened to March 31, 1970. On March 18, 1969 it was announced that Australia, Ireland, and New Zealand would limit exports to the United Kingdom until April 1970. September 9. Arrangements were concluded at Basle for a medium-term facility of US$2 bil- lion to counter fluctuations in the sterling bal- ances of Sterling Area countries. The United Kingdom subsequently entered into agreements with other Sterling Area countries (except South A f r ica) guaranteeing to maintain the dollar value of that part of each country's official sterling reserves which exceeded 10 per cent of its total reserves, while the partner countries undertook to ma in ta in not less than an agreed m in imum pro- portion of their total reserves in sterling. These agreements came into effect on September 25. September 20. Applications to make payments outside the Sterling Area for purchases of ships, boats, and aircraft which would not be imported into or registered in the United Kingdom or which would be operated by nonresidents of the Sterling Area had to be referred to the Bank of England. October 1. A Notice to Authorized Banks set out the requirements that would in fu tu re apply to the issue and export of, and transactions in, certificates of deposit and government bills, including in particular treasury bills. These included for the first time provisions concerning the issuance of certificates of deposit denominated in sterling. October 11. The rules were changed in respect of the period permitted for forward exchange con- tracts with residents of the Sterling Area in cover of capital repayments due in non-Sterling Area currency. Permission was also w i thdrawn for such residents to hold non-Sterling Area currency in cover of drawings under credits. July 27. Export control was removed (except for exports to Rhodesia) from lead ores and concentrates. October 11. The exchange control authority for the use of sterling usance credits to finance trade between countries outside the Sterling Area 493 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM was withdrawn. The restriction did not apply to any facilities where sight credits only are involved, and the authority to finance trade between coun- tries outside the Sterling Area by the use of non-Sterling Area currencies deposited with authorized banks by nonresidents continued with- out change. October 15. It was announced that the basic travel allowance for the 12 months beginning November 1 would remain at £50. October 28. The market in sterling certificates of deposit opened. November 20. The foreign exchange market was closed. It was reopened on November 25. November 22. The ceiling on bank lending to private borrowers was reduced. Fixed-rate lending under the special schemes for export and shipbuilding finance was henceforth excluded from the calculation of credit ceilings. November 27. An advance deposit of 50 per cent of the value of imports (defined as the value on which any ad valorem duties would be calcu- lated or, where goods have been entered for ware- housing, their value at the time of importation) was required prior to the release from customs of commodities from any source outside of the United Kingdom that represented about two fifths of total imports. The deposit was required both on goods for home use and on goods for warehousing. With minor exceptions, the cate- gories of goods covered were the same as those to which the temporary import charge had applied; in general, exemption was provided for basic foods, feeding s tuffs, fuel, certain types of goods imported mainly from developing countries, and goods for re-export or those used in the pro- duction or manu fac tu re of exports. Upon arrival of the goods, the importer had to present to the customs a customs entry form along with a check in favor of the customs for the amount of the deposit; technically, the deposits were cus- toms duties. The customs would retain the depos- its for six months, after which it would repay them automatically to the original payer of the deposit (who might or might not be the importer h im s e l f ). The deposits would not bear interest. They would be transferred through the customs to the Bank of England. It was intended that the additional funds required to finance import depos- its should not be derived primarily from credit provided by the banking system. December 18. It was announced that permis- sion would not normally be given to importers or their agents to borrow non-Sterling Area currency from authorized banks or nonresidents of the Ster- ling Area, or External Account sterling from non- residents, for the financing of import deposits. Specific exchange control consent was not required for a direct payment of import deposits from a source outside the Sterling Area, but permission would not normally be given to applications spe- cifically for payment of interest. Authorized banks were given authority to recredit to External Ac- counts deposits paid by nonresidents direct to the customs. Existing permissions to borrow for the financing of import deposits and to repay such borrowing remained unchanged, within the limits given in those authorizations. December 30. It was announced that import quotas for goods of Japanese origin would be increased fu r ther and that Japan would terminate its voluntary export controls on additional prod- ucts when exported to the United Kingdom. 494 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES1 Exchange Rate System The par value of the United States Dollar is 15%i grains of gold %0 fine, which is equivalent to US$35 per fine ounce, at which price (exclu- sive of handling charges and expenses) the Trea- sury buys gold only from official sources and sells it only to governments and central banks abroad, and, under certain circumstances, to international institutions, for the settlement of international balances and other legitimate monetary purposes. There are no restrictions on foreign payments, except those imposed for security reasons on transactions involving the authorities or nationals of mainland China, Cuba, North Korea, and North Viet-Nam, and those imposed pursuant to UN Security Council Resolutions Nos. 232 and 253 on any transfer of funds to or on behalf of or for the benefit of any person in Rhodesia (including the authorities thereof). The United States notified the Fund on December 10, 1946 that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control The Treasury Department deals with license applications for transactions involving the authori- ties or nationals of mainland China, North Korea, and North Viet-Nam, as specified under the For- eign Assets Control Regulations; it is also in charge of licensing transactions involving the authorities or nationals of Cuba, under the Cuban Assets Control Regulations. That Department also administers the controls on transfers to Rhodesia by a licensing program under the Rhodesia Sanc- tions Regulations. The foreign direct investment program is administered by the Office of Foreign Direct Investments in the Department of Commerce. The Federal Reserve Board admin- isters the voluntary foreign credit restraint pro- gram for banks and other financial institutions. The Bureau of Customs of the Treasury Department administers import quotas for certain commodities, including certain wheat and wheat products. Import quotas on specified dairy prod- 1 In view of a change that took place on Janua ry 1, 1969 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position on that date. ucts are administered by the Department of Agri- culture through the issuance of import licenses and special permits. The import quotas on sugar are allotted among eligible exporting countries in accordance with a statutory formula administered by the Department of Agriculture and are pro- rated among eligible importers under regulations administered by that Department. Licenses for imports of crude petroleum and petroleum prod- ucts are issued by the Department of the Interior. For items subject to export control, the Depart- ment of Commerce is, in general, the responsible authority. Imports and Import Payments The importation of merchandise, as well as payment therefor, is prohibited unless licensed, if such merchandise is of mainland Chinese, Cuban, North Korean, North Vietnamese, or Rhodesian origin. In addition, this prohibition applies to specified commodities presumptively of mainland Chinese origin imported from any country and to certain other commodities if imported from the U.S.S.R., the communist countries of Eastern Europe, not including Yugoslavia, or from Hong Kong or Macao. Import quotas are in effect, pursuant to Sec- tion 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act, as amended, for cotton, certain cotton waste, and certain semiprocessed cotton products, wheat and wheat products, specified dairy products, and peanuts. With the exception of the import quotas for peanuts, certain cotton and cotton products, and a specified portion of the quota for Cheddar cheese, the quotas above and those for sugar (pursuant to special legislation) are on a country- of-production basis. Under the revised U.S.- Philippine Trade Agreement, import duties appli- cable to the Philippines in the period 1968-70 are 60 per cent of the lowest U.S. rate on all Philip- pine products. Imports of Philippine cordage, along with sugar, are subject to absolute quotas. Imports of Philippine coconut oil, scrap and filler tobacco, cigars, and pearl or shell buttons are duty free within specified limits, with any overlap subject to 100 per cent of the lowest U.S. rate. The United States is a party to the Long-Term Cotton Textiles Arrangement, which authorizes importing countries to request exporting countries 495 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES to limit or restrain exports of cotton textiles under specified conditions, and, if the exporting country does not accede, to impose an import quota. The United States has concluded comprehensive bilat- eral agreements governing cotton textile imports from certain major supplying countries and has unilaterally imposed restraints on specific cotton textile products from a few other countries. Glo- bal quotas are imposed on imports of crude petro- leum and petroleum products, except those im- ported overland (i.e., by pipeline, motor carrier, or ra i l ), which are included within the permitted import level but are not subject to allocation and licensing requirements. In practice imports of residual fuel oil for burn ing are virtually unre- stricted. Notwithstanding the oil import program, the Secretary of the Interior has discretionary au tho r i ty to allow increased imports of finished asphalt. The transfer of funds to Rhodesia for certain purposes (see section on Exchange Rate System, above) is permitted only under license. Other payments and transfers abroad may be made freely, with certain exceptions which are per- mitted only under license; these are payments to or for the account of the authorities or nationals of mainland China, Cuba, North Korea, and North Viet-Nam. Exports and Export Proceeds Munitions can be exported only under license issued by the Office of Munitions Control in the Department of State. Exports of certain types of silver are prohibited by the Treasury Department. Licenses are not granted for exports of arms and ammunition to South Africa. Most exports to Rhodesia require licenses and generally no licenses are issued except for food and humanitarian items. Exports (except designated nonstrategic goods) to the U.S.S.R. and the countries of Eastern Europe other than Yugoslavia, and all exports (except phonograph records, publications, and, to Cuba, limited gift parcels) to mainland China, Cuba, North Korea, and North Viet-Nam, are subject to individual validated licenses. Exports of designated strategic materials and equipment to all other countries (except Canada) also require individual validated licenses. For many commodities, when exported to Western European countries, Australia, or Japan, single distribution licenses may be obtained to cover a 496 fu ll year's shipments. The licensing requirements applicable to Poland and Ruman ia are less restric- tive than those applicable to other Eastern Euro- pean countries (except Yugos lav ia); within this group of other Eastern European countries, the requirements are restrictive on certain items for Eastern Germany. Exports of certain commodities to all destinations have from time to time been subject to control for "short supply" reasons; cop- per is the only commodity currently under "short supply" export control. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted, except that they are prohibited to and from mainland China, Cuba, North Korea, North Viet-Nam, and Rhodesia. As regards Rhodesia, they are restricted where they are related to prohibited or licensed transactions. Travelers are not authorized to take out domestic silver coins in amounts having a face value in excess of US$5.00. Capital Incoming or outgoing capital payments by resi- dents or nonresidents are not subject to exchange control. However, as noted above, there are restrictions on certain transactions with or involv- ing mainland China, Cuba, North Korea, North Viet-Nam, and Rhodesia. U.S. purchasers of foreign securities are sub- ject to an Interest Equalization Tax of 18.75 per cent for certain acquisitions of stock and 1.31 per cent to 18.75 per cent, depending on ma tur i ty, for certain acquisitions of debt obligations, including bank loans, with a period remaining to maturity of one year or more. Major exemptions from the tax are direct investments, investments in less developed countries,2 purchases from other U.S. 2 Among other countries the tax is applicable to Abu Dhabi, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bermuda, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait- Saudi Arabia Neutral Zone, Libya, Qatar, and Saudi Arabia. The law provides that the following cannot be designated as less developed countries: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, Japan, Liechtenstein, Lux- embourg, Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, South Africa, San Marino, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and United Kingdom. The only European countries at present designated as less developed countries are Cyprus, Finland, Greece, Iceland, Malta, Turkey, and Yugoslavia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution holders, debt obligations acquired in connection with exports, and the purchase of original or new issues when the President of the United States determines that the application of the tax will have such consequences for a foreign country as to imperil or threaten to imperil the stability of the international monetary system, pursuant to which new or original Canadian security issues are exempt, as are —up to an aggregate amount of US$100 million a year —new securities issued or guaranteed by the Government of Japan as well as certain new issues by Japanese firms that are not guaranteed by that Government. Also exempt are bank loans of all maturities to Canada and loans with maturities of more than one year, whether denominated in U.S. dollars or foreign currencies, that are made by foreign branches of U.S. banks to foreign borrowers. A vo lun tary foreign credit restraint program has resulted in the establishment of "guidelines" for banks and nonbank financial institutions in respect of their foreign assets. A mandatory for- eign direct investment program has placed restraints on direct investment by setting annual limits on net capital outflow plus reinvested earn- ings, prescribing the repatriation of roughly the same share of total earnings as was repatriated in the base period, and requiring the repatriation and limitation of certain short-term financial assets held abroad by direct investors. Three regional ceilings are enforced on the making of direct investment during any year: one for less devel- oped countries; one for other countries judged to be dependent on a substantial continuing inflow of capital that cannot be adequately met from non-U.S. sources; and one for all other countries. There is an embargo on net capital outflows to the whole of the last group of countries, which includes most of continental Europe, except Fin- land, Greece, Turkey, and Yugoslavia. Canada is exempt from all balance of payments restraints, except for the application of the Interest Equali- zation Tax to some transactions.3 3 On April 4, 1969, the Federal Reserve Board issued revised foreign credit restraint guidelines that were effec- tive immediately. By permitting banks to retain their guideline ceiling or adopting a new ceiling calculated in terms of their total assets, the aggregate ceiling was raised by about US$400 million above the US$9.7 billion figure for the end of 1968. Ceilings for nonbank financial insti- tutions were raised from 95 per cent to 100 per cent of their end of 1967 base. This change increased ceilings by about US$40 million, compared w i th end of 1968 invest- UNITED STATES Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell domestic and foreign gold coins situated in the United States and minted before 1933. Gold coins minted after this date may be held if they have been determined to be of recognized special value to collectors. Licenses are required to import any gold coins and generally are available only for gold coins of exceptional num isma t ic value. Gold bullion may not be held in the United States except by monetary authorities and licensed indus- trial, professional, and artistic users. The holding of gold abroad by U.S. nationals is also prohibited except under license for industrial, professional, or artistic use. Licensing au thor i ty is vested in the Secretary of the Treasury. Producers of gold may sell their ou tput at free market prices either to licensed industrial users or abroad (except to monetary authorities). The Treasury buys and sells gold only in transactions with governments, central banks, and international institutions; all transac- tions are at US$35 an ounce. Gold may be freely imported by licensed users w i th in the limitations of their authorized inventory holding. A license is required for the export of gold except gold recov- ered from na tural deposits in the United States, which may be exported without license; the export of coins minted af ter 1932 is not normally per- mitted. Commercial imports of gold jewelry and of articles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold, such as watches, are free of quantitative restric- tion. Imports and exports of gold coins and gold bullion are free of customs duties and other fiscal charges. Domestic sales of jewelry, including gold jewelry, are subject to excise du ty at the rate of 15 per cent, while domestic sales of gold in any other fo rm, including rare gold coins, are free of fiscal charges. Changes during 1968 January 1. The President announced a com- prehensive balance of payments program. He invoked his authority under 12 U.S.C. 95a, as amended by the banking laws, and Proclamation No. 2914 of December 1950 to establish a man- ments under the restraint of US$1.4 billion. Also on April 4, 1969, the effective rate of the Interest Equaliza- tion Tax was reduced from UNITED STATES datory program to restrain direct investment abroad, requested and authorized the Federal Reserve Board to tighten its program restraining foreign lending by banks and other financial insti- tutions, and gave the Federal Reserve Board stand-by authority to invoke mandatory controls should these become desirable or necessary. The President also asked U.S. citizens to defer for the next two years all nonessential travel outside the Western Hemisphere and asked the Secretary of the Treasury to explore with the appropriate con- gressional committees legislation to help to achieve this objective. He instructed the Secretary of State, the Director of the Budget, and the Secretary of Defense to find ways to economize on government expenditures overseas. Other steps announced, some of which would require legislation, included measures aiming at an increase in U.S. exports and in foreign investment and travel in the United States. An intensive effort would be made to secure the reduction by foreign surplus countries of certain nontariff barriers to trade, including fairer rules covering border tax adjustments. January 1. The mandatory foreign direct in- vestment program was implemented by Executive Order No. 11387 and Commerce Departmental Order 184-A (15 CFR Part 1,000). Two restraints were placed on direct investment: annual limits on net capital outflow plus reinvested earnings and, in some areas, mandatory repatriation of a prescribed share of total earnings. In addition, the mandatory repatriation and limitation of short- term financial assets held abroad by direct inves- tors was required. Under the new program, re- gional ceilings were established on new foreign direct investment; exempt from these ceilings was investment financed from such earnings as were not required to be repatriated, from depreciation, and from borrowing abroad, and any direct invest- ment up to US$100,000 in any one year. The implementing regulations resulted in a moratorium on net capital flows for direct investment to conti- nental Europe taken as a whole (other than Fin- land, Greece, Turkey, and Yugoslavia). All coun- tries of the world were divided into three cate- gories: ( 1) Schedule A countries, i.e., less devel- oped countries as defined for the purposes of the Interest Equalization Tax (see footnote 2 ); ( 2) Schedule B countries, i.e., countries judged to be developed countries dependent on a substantial continuing inflow of capital that cannot be ade- 498 quately met from non-U.S. sources,4 and (3) Schedule C countries, i.e., all other countries. Restrictions were imposed on the net annual trans- actions of each "direct investor" (defined as a person within the United States who directly or indirectly owns or acquires 10 per cent or more of the voting power, right to receive income, or right to receive assets on liquidation of a foreign na t iona l) with its foreign aff i l ia tes in each cate- gory of countries. Separate provisions dealt with transfers of capital (including reinvested earn- ings), repatriation of earnings, and holdings of liquid foreign balances. The years 1965 and 1966 formed the reference base period for transfers of capital. Total direct investment in Schedule A countries (including both capital outflows and reinvested earnings) was limited to 110 per cent of the base period average and that in Schedule B countries to 65 per cent, while direct transfers to Schedule C countries were prohibited. Investment in Schedule C countries was limited to reinvest- ments of current earnings up to 35 per cent of direct investment in the base period, subject to a prior condition that the 1964-66 average rate of repatriation of earnings must be maintained. The use of long-term funds borrowed in any foreign country would not be deducted in calculating direct investment subject to the regulations. A direct investor had to treat his affiliates within any foreign country or scheduled area on a group basis. An affiliated company in a Schedule C or a Schedule B country could transfer capital for direct investment to another aff i l ia te of the same U.S. direct investor in a Schedule A country within the specified ceiling for total direct investments in Schedule A countries as a group. Similarly, trans- fers could be made from a Schedule C to a Sched- ule B country. Transfers of investment funds in the other direction (from an affiliate in a Schedule A or a Schedule B country to an affiliate in a Schedule C country or from an affiliate in a Schedule A country direct to one in a Schedule B country) were not permitted. (Control of such transfers refers to net transfers over the year as a whole.) The provisions concerning repatriation of direct 4 In i t ia l ly defined as Abu Dhabi, Australia, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bermuda, Canada, Hong Kong, Iran, Iraq, Ire- land, Japan, Kuwa i t, Kuwait-Saudi Arabia Neutral Zone, Libya, New Zealand, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and United Kingdom. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution investment earnings required each direct investor to repatriate at least once a year the same per- centage of his earnings from affiliated companies as the average percentage repatriated in a three- year base period (1964-66) and fu r ther to repa- triate the excess of his total earnings over the amount he was permitted to reinvest within the authorized ceiling for his total direct investment, even if this involved a larger percentage of earn- ings than was repatriated in the base period. Within the Schedule C group of countries, the max imum reinvestment of current earnings was the smaller of ( 1) an amount equivalent to 35 per cent of the investor's average base period direct investment, and (2) the amount of earnings remaining af ter giving effect to the 1964-66 repa- triation ratio. Repatriation was defined as a trans- fer to an account denominated in U.S. dollars at a domestic bank, but there were no surrender requirements or other restrictions on the use of these fund s. With respect to liquid foreign balances held abroad by direct investors, the total amount of bank deposits and other short-term financial assets in each scheduled category of countries was to be reduced by June 30, 1968 to the average end-of- month amounts held dur ing 1965 and 1966, and to be maintained thereafter at or below that level. The controls would be administered by an Office of Foreign Direct Investments in the Department of Commerce. January 1. In the Federal Reserve Board's revised voluntary guidelines for 1968, three types of restriction were placed on the extension of for- eign credits by banks. The ceiling on foreign credits of U.S. banks was reduced from 109 per cent of foreign assets outstanding at the end of 1964 ( the ceiling announced in November 1967) generally to 103 per cent of the base level. For banks that had chosen to adopt an alternative lim- itation, equivalent to 2 per cent of total assets at the end of 1966, the new ceiling was an amount equal to the 1967 ceiling plus one third of the addition to that ceiling envisioned in Novem- ber 1967 for the original 1968 guidelines. In addi- tion, the banks were asked not to renew maturing term loans to developed countries of continental Western Europe and to reduce outstanding short-term loans to those countries by 40 per cent during 1968, at the rate of 10 per cent for each quarter. As these reductions in UNITED STATES loans to European countries (estimated at about US$700 million) took place, the guideline ceil- ings for individual banks were to be reduced cor- respondingly. Exempt from the credit restraints were loans to finance U.S. exports that are either guaranteed or participated in by the Export- Import Bank, or that are guaranteed by the Department of Defense or insured by the Foreign Credit Insurance Corporation. For the nonbank financial institutions the new program requested a reduction of at least 5 per cent in holdings of covered foreign assets from the level of December 31, 1967. In addition, hold- ings of liquid funds abroad were to be reduced to zero or to the m in imum working balances required to conduct foreign business activities. These insti- tutions were fu r ther requested to refrain from mak ing any new loans or investments in devel- oped countries of continental Western Europe except to finance U.S. exports. January 21. The U.S. Treasury issued a state- ment that the new balance of payments program was not intended to have the effect of causing abnormal transfers of earnings or withdrawals of capital by U.S. companies having investments in Canada. The Treasury also urged U.S. subsidi- aries in Canada to behave as good corporate citi- zens of that country. January 22. As a supplement to the foreign direct investment program, the Department of Commerce issued a general authorization permit- ting U.S. companies to guarantee foreign borrow- ings by their foreign subsidiaries and to make the relevant payments in U.S. dollars when such guarantees were invoked. Any company using U.S. funds to make repayments on foreign bor- rowing would be required to deduct this amount from its allowable base in the fu tu r e, or, for bor- rowing in continental Europe, from earnings exempt from the repatriation requirement. New loans could not be taken up by borrowers who had no prospect of repaying from foreign funds; the U.S. parent company would have to certify that it expected the foreign borrowing to be repaid from funds acquired abroad. January 22. It was announced that short sup- ply export controls for copper and related prod- ucts would be continued during the first half of 1968. Export licensing quotas would be the same as those in effect during the last half of 1967. 499 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES February 5. The President proposed to Con- gress certain legislation that would restrain travel abroad. The proposals were not enacted. February 8. The Federal Reserve Board, by amending its Regulation K relating to "Edge Act" and "Agreement" corporations, suspended its general consent for the acquisition by those corpo- rations of certain equity investments abroad. By requiring the Board's specific consent for all such investments, it became possible to implement more fu l ly the policy that banks should refrain from placing f u n ds (even indirectly) in continen- tal Europe for any purpose other than to provide needed financing for U.S. exports. However, in order not to restrict the opportunities for Euro- dollar financing to those banks that already had branches in Europe, the Board also decided that the use of bank funds for the establishment of new branches, even in continental Europe, would not be inconsistent with the guidelines, as long as the funds involved were small and, in effect, consti- tuted current expenditures rather than capital outflows. February 28. The Department of Commerce announced that it would authorize payment of interest by direct investors to foreign affiliates in connection with borrowing by or for the parent company. U.S. firms were also permitted to sell patents and trademarks to foreign affiliates, and in most cases to guarantee bonds issued by such affiliates. In addition, direct investors would not be required to repatriate earnings of affiliated for- eign companies in Schedule A and B countries, provided that they were authorized to make equiv- alent transfers of capital to those foreign affiliates in the same year. Capital transfers for the purpose of acquiring a holding in a foreign national would be permitted when such transfers were made by a person within the United States to another per- son w i th in the United States acting for its own account. March 7. The Secretary of the Treasury announced that the United States would under- take to exempt Canada f rom all balance of pay- ments measures affecting capital flows that are administered by the Department of Commerce and the Federal Reserve Board. (New or original Canadian security issues in the United States con- tinued to be exempt from the Interest Equaliza- tion Tax.) The detailed regulations, which went into effect in mid-April, contained provisions 500 designed to prevent U.S. companies from using the exemption to move unauthorized funds through Canada to other countries. March 13. The Federal Reserve Board announced changes in foreign investment guide- lines to exempt claims on residents of Canada from the ceilings on foreign assets suggested by the guidelines for banks and nonbank financial institutions. Foreign loans to other parts of the world were not to be increased by reductions in holdings of Canadian assets. Canadian assets would still have to be shown in the bank report- ing forms but changes in such assets after Febru- ary 29, 1968 would be excluded from the covered assets of the banks and, for other financial institu- tions, all holdings of such assets would be excluded both from the base and from covered assets sub- ject to the ceiling. The definition of covered assets was enlarged to cover net financial investment in nonf inanc ial subsidiaries and affiliates located in developed countries other than Canada and Japan. March 17. The U.S. Treasury announced that it would no longer buy gold from domestic pro- ducers or sell it to domestic industrial, profes- sional, or artistic users. Treasury licenses would still be required for gold purchases, but industrial users would be expected to acquire gold from private U.S. or foreign sellers at free market prices. The Gold Regulations were being amended to allow domestic producers to sell and export freely to foreign buyers as well as authorized domestic users. Unlicensed U.S. citizens or firms would continue to be forbidden to acquire or to hold gold. The United States would continue to exchange monetary gold for dollars at the fixed price of US$35 an ounce, but would not sell gold to any government to replace amounts sold out of official reserves to private buyers. March 20. Private gold trading at free market prices began. March 25. The Securities and Exchange Com- mission exempted foreign financial subsidiaries of U.S. corporations from regulations hampering the raising of funds abroad to finance foreign business operations of the parent company. The exemption applied to subsidiaries of whose assets 80 per cent was invested in foreign companies, or 90 per cent was invested in companies in which the parent concern had at least a 10 per cent own- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ership interest. The subsidiary must issue to the public only debt securities and preferred stock guaranteed by the parent company. March 25. The Department of Commerce announced that U.S. corporations were being granted waivers on an ad hoc basis for the tem- porary transfer of funds to continental Europe, provided that they undertook to return such funds later in 1968 after obtaining permanent European financing for their projects. The waivers were being issued mainly for projects already under way. March 31. The Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 was amended. The Eximbank's authority to enter into new business was extended to June 30, 1973 ( f rom June 30, 1968). The ceiling on out- standing loans, guarantees, and insurance was increased from US$9 billion to US$13.5 billion. The Eximbank was generally prohibited from participating in the financing of exports to or for use in communist countries, exports of military equipment to less developed countries, or exports to or for use in any nation engaged in or assisting in armed conflict with U.S. forces. April 1. The Eximbank reduced lending rates for loans to commercial banks to a minimum of 5% per cent on the first US$250,000 of export obligations of commercial bank borrowers for final maturities of the underlying paper of 12 to 30 months, 5% per cent for 31 to 48 months, and 5% per cent for maturities exceeding 48 months. The maximum term of the bank's loans was extended from one year to the duration of the remaining term of the underlying export obligations. April 15. The Department of Commerce announced that following the reopening of domes- tic copper refineries and smelters, small copper miners would no longer be authorized to export ores and concentrates for processing abroad. April 22. Restrictions were imposed on exports of softwood logs cut on federal lands in the Pacific Northwest. April 29. The Department of Commerce announced that companies that did not use up their fu ll allowable quota of direct investment during 1968 could use it in subsequent years if the mandatory control program was continued. In addition, some switching of quotas among the UNITED STATES three categories of countries would be permitted during 1968: an unused quota in Schedule C countries could be switched to Schedule B or Schedule A countries, and unused quotas in Schedule B countries could be switched to Sched- ule A countries. Reverse switches would not be allowed. April 29. Subsidization of poultry exports to Switzerland was resumed. May 6. The Agency for International Devel- opment announced new procedures to tighten controls over AID-financed commodity purchases by developing countries. Such purchases would generally be limited to commodities not already being imported in significant volume under the beneficiary country's current import and exchange control regulations. June 6. Temporary import quotas were placed on condensed and evaporated milk and cream from Australia, Canada, Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, and the Netherlands. June 6. The Department of Commerce announced that under the foreign direct invest- ment program repayment of long-term borrow- ings would be permitted without regard to expected investment allowables if no repayments were scheduled for the first seven years of the loan. On shorter-term loans repayments would have to be made from a company's expected allowables in the year of repayment. June 25. Export quotas on copper base scrap and alloy ingots were relaxed for the second half of 1968 but quotas for other short supply copper products were continued at the first-half levels. June 27. The 1968 sugar marketing quota was raised by 100,000 tons to 1.8 million tons. Foreign growers would be entitled to supply 35 per cent of the increase. July 1. Amended antidumping regulations went into effect. July 20. An Executive Order extended the eco- nomic sanctions against Rhodesia by prohibiting virtually all unlicensed commercial and financial transactions with Rhodesia as well as controlling ship and plane movements. August 8. The Department of Commerce launched a program of financial aid for "Joint Export Associations" of U.S. companies. The 501 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES Department would pay up to one half the cost of market development and promotional activities for selected products abroad. August 8. The final text of regulations cover- ing repayment of borrowings under the foreign direct investment program was published. August 12. By virtue of a Presidential Order of Ju ly 29, the Treasury issued new regulations extending mandatory economic sanctions against Rhodesia. They prohibited virtually all unlicensed commercial and financial transactions by Ameri- cans with Rhodesia. These Rhodesian Sanctions Regulations replaced the Rhodesian Transaction Regulations. Payment of pensions and charitable remittances to missionary societies could be authorized. August 13. It was announced that counter- vailing duties of 2.5 per cent would be imposed on most imports from France from September 14 until the abolition of the French export subsidies. August 14. Exemption from the foreign direct investment program was extended to all compa- nies investing abroad US$200,000 or less in 1968. The previous limit had been US$100,000 a year. August 20. The Federal Maritime Commis- sion ordered the North Atlantic-United Kingdom Freight Conference to reduce ocean freight rates on general cargo moving from U.S. North Atlantic ports to the United Kingdom. August 22. The export licensing system was liberalized for most commodities through estab- lishment of a distribution license to cover a full year's shipments to approved consignees in most Western European countries, Australia, or Japan. September 3. The Export-Import Bank liberal- ized its export credit guarantee and insurance pro- grams. September 24. Temporary import quotas were announced for Swiss-type and other low-priced cows' milk cheeses not specified in the U.S. tariff schedules, and for all processed Edam and Gouda cheeses, regardless of price. September 28. Miscellaneous amendments to the Rhodesian Sanctions Regulations were issued. The terms "free account" and "suspense account" were defined. October 13. The Federal Reserve Board 502 liberalized its regulations (Regulation Q) on per- missible interest rates on deposits made by for- eign monetary authorities. November 1. Countervailing duties on French imports were reduced from 2.5 per cent to 1.25 per cent. November 7. The Department of Commerce announced changes in the foreign direct invest- ment program to provide for an additional "incre- mental earnings" quota, beginning in 1970, that would be based on the world-wide growth in earnings of a company's foreign affiliates. At the same time, the requirements with respect to repa- triation of earnings in Schedule C countries were eased by allowing companies to substitute other forms of capital flows to the United States, includ- ing repayment of intercompany indebtedness. November 16. The Department of Commerce issued regulations implementing the prohibition in the Executive Order of July 29, 1968 on the transportation in U.S. ships of commodities of Rhodesian origin. December 4. A proposed increase in the target level of direct investment was announced to ensure that every direct investor had in 1969 an invest- ment quota of at least 20 per cent of its 1968 earnings from foreign direct investment. The Office of Foreign Direct Investment proposed that the minimum investment quota under the foreign direct investment program be raised from US$200,000 to US$300,000 a year. Additional flexibility was announced in the determination of investment quotas for 1969; a firm could elect an investment quota for each scheduled area equal to 20 per cent of its 1968 earnings in the area concerned, in preference to the base period for- mula. Increased shifting would be permitted among the three scheduled geographical areas; companies with an uneven distribution of quotas would be permitted to transfer unneeded quotas to any scheduled area, provided that their result- ing quota was less than 20 per cent of the 1968 earnings in that area. Possibilities of investment in less developed countries were increased. The total of targeted foreign direct investment would be increased from US$2.6 billion in 1968 to US$2.9 billion in 1969. December 23. The Federal Reserve Board issued revised guidelines, effective immediately, for restraint of foreign credits by banks and other ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution financial in s t i tu t ion s. The Federal Reserve Board program for f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions continued for 1969 the voluntary ceilings for bank loans which were in e f fect during 1968 (in general, 103 per cent of the December 31, 1964 ba se ), and called for con t inu ing restraint on term loans to resi- dents of developed countries of continental West- ern Europe. Under the revised guidelines, how- eve r, banks were pe rm i t ted to make equ i ty invest- ments in those countries w i th in their general ceilings. The banks were also asked to hold short- term credits to res iden ts of developed countries of con t inen tal Western Europe to 60 per cent of the amount ou ts tand ing on December 31, 1967— i.e., to the level to which they were to be reduced under the 1968 program. For nonbank financial UNITED STATES i n s t i t u t i o n s, the de f in i t ion of covered assets was unchanged, and the ceiling rema ined at 95 per cent of the base at the end of 1967. NOTE . —The following change took place early in 1969: January 1. By a decision announced on April 4, 1969, the minimum investment quota under the foreign direct investment program was raised to US$1 million a year. This, together with other changes in the program, increased the authorized amount of direct investment under the program to US$3 .35 billion for 1969. 503 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA Exchange System No par value for the currency of Upper Volta has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.2 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de PAf- rique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. The negotiation in Upper Volta of the currency of Guinea is pro- hibited. Upper Volta's exchange control measures do not apply to ( 1) France and its Overseas Depart- ments and Territories (except the French Terri- tory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; ( 2) the other member countries of the West Afri- can Monetary Union (Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, and Togo); and ( 3) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, the Central African Repub- lic, Chad, Congo (Brazzaville), Gabon, the Mala- gasy Republic, and Mali). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Upper Volta itself, are consid- ered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exter- nal Finance Bureau in the Ministry of Finance and Commerce, which also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or sale of foreign securities in Upper Volta, inward and outward direct investment, and the solicitation of funds in Upper Volta for placement in foreign countries. 1 In view of certain changes that took place early in 1969 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position on February 26, 1969. 2 The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 504 The approval authority in respect of exchange control, except for imports and exports of gold, has been delegated to the BCEAO and, within limits specified in the exchange control regulations, to authorized intermediaries. The BCEAO also is authorized to collect, either directly or through the intermediary of the banks and the Postal Admin- istration, any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal Administration, or the BCEAO. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Bureau in the Directorate of Commerce at the Ministry of Finance and Commerce, except those for gold, which are granted by the External Finance Bureau in the same ministry. Import cer- tificates for liberalized commodities are made out by the importer himself and are visaed by the customs. Prescription of Currency Upper Volta is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France (including its Overseas Departments and Territories, except that of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Opera- tions Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs.3 All settlements with Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued 3 There is an inoperative payments agreement with Ghana. A trade agreement with Ghana that was ratified in December 1967 provides that all payments shall take place in transferable currencies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. Imports from EEC countries are liberalized and require only an import certificate. Most imports from other countries are subject to licensing. Imports from non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area are admitted in accordance with an annual import program, determined each year by the Directorate of Commerce. Under this program, global quotas are established up to which import licenses are issued for specified commodities to licensed traders. Imports from Ghana are subject to special regulations. For goods admitted without quantitative restriction, certificates of importation are issued. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the com- modities have already been imported. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to exchange control approval, which for many invisibles has been delegated to the authorized banks. All payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Payments for invisi- bles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 50,000 a year for each per- son; any foreign exchange remaining after return UPPER VOLTA to Upper Volta must be surrendered. Travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 10,000 in BCEAO bank- notes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by any institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes. Resident travelers must have their purchases and sales of foreign currency marked in a personal foreign exchange booklet (carnet de change). Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries of the French Franc Area may be made freely but for statistical purposes require a license from the Department of Com- merce. Exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Exports to all other coun- tries are permitted freely but some also require a license. Certain commodities can be exported in special circumstances only. Exports to Ghana are subject to special regulations. Export pro- ceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Operations Account country must be surrendered. All export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank, and the exporter must sign a foreign exchange commitment (engagement de change) and submit a customs certification (attestation d'exportation). Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date. Such proceeds and earnings must not be received in or from Rhodesia. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the 505 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA French Franc Area. Resident travelers must within eight days surrender to an authorized bank any foreign banknotes they bring in. The import of Guinean currency is prohibited. Capital All capital movements between Upper Volta and Rhodesia are prohibited. Capital movements between Upper Volta and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special contols (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, offering for sale, or introduction of for- eign securities in Upper Volta, and over the solic- iting of funds in Upper Volta for placement in foreign countries; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Upper Volta, the control measures do not apply to rela- tions with France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, the other member countries of the West African Monetary Union, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Foreign direct investments in Upper Volta,4 and Upper Volta direct investments abroad5 must be declared to the Minister of Finance when they are being made, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration, dur- ing which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. The total or par- 4 Including those made by companies in Upper Volta that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Upper Volta of foreign companies. 5 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly con- trolled by persons in Upper Volta and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Upper Volta. 506 tial liquidation of either type of direct investment also is subject to prior declaration to the Minis- ter. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Upper Volta investments abroad or foreign investments in Upper Volta, must be reported to the Minister of Finance within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, offering for sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Upper Volta requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with ( 1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Upper Volta Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, offering for sale, or sale in Upper Volta has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in Upper Volta, or by branches or subsidiaries in Upper Volta of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans con- stituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Upper Volta and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these per- sons or firms take part; ( 3) loans contracted by registered banks; ( 4) loans other than those men- tioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authoriza- tion, and each repayment thereon, must be noti- fied to the Minister of Finance w i th in 20 days, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 500,000 or less. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization and is restricted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Law No. 14/62/AN of June 22, 1962, which revoked and replaced Law No. 24/61/AN of July 5, 1961, provides preferential treatment for foreign investment in Upper Volta. Under this law, two preferential categories (A and B) are estab- lished, in accordance with which preferential treatment with respect to stable rates of taxes, duties, and other fiscal charges may be accorded to specified, approved enterprises for periods of up to 30 years. The benefits under Category B are far more liberal than those under Category A; they are negotiated between the investor and the Government; and the enter- prise accorded such benefits must be of spe- cial importance to the national economy. Law No. 25/61/AN sets up an assistance fund for new industries. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Upper Volta. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Commerce, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO and ( 2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1968 March 29. Ordinance No. 68-011/PRES/MFC established certain new procedures for imports and exports. It was subsequently modified by Ordinance No. 68-018 of April 22. Notices Nos. 68/03 and 68/04 were issued on April 3 for its implementation. April 17. By virtue of Decree No. 68-093, the importation into and negotiation in Upper Volta of Mali francs ceased to be prohibited. May 13. Decree No. 68-107/PRES/MFC amended Decree No. 67-150 of June 29, 1967 by making the soliciting of funds in Upper Volta for placing abroad subject to prior approval of the Minister of Finance. June 1. With minor exceptions, imports of all commodities originating in and shipped from EEC countries other than France were liberalized. UPPER VOLTA June 1. Decree No. 68-120/PRES/MFC, by suspending any contrary provisions of Decree No. 67-150 of June 29, 1967, re-established tem- porary exchange controls in relations with foreign countries. These were defined as all countries other than Upper Volta, France, and the other Operations Account countries. The BCEAO, the registered banks, and the Postal Administration were appointed as authorized intermediaries. Non- resident accounts in Upper Volta could not be credited with BCEAO banknotes, French bank- notes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries and proceeds from invisibles had to be repatriated and, when received in foreign currencies, surrendered. June 1. Order No. 184/MFC/CAB listed the types of payments to foreign countries that could be made freely through an authorized interme- diary, provided that supporting documents were submitted. It also introduced an exchange alloca- tion of the equivalent of CFAF 100,000 a person a trip for travel to foreign countries. The export by travelers to foreign countries of BCEAO bank- notes was limited to CFAF 100,000 a person a trip; the amount of such banknotes to be taken out would be deducted from the exchange alloca- tion. The repatriation and, where appropriate, the surrender was prescribed of all proceeds from exports to foreign countries and all earnings and proceeds from foreign countries or nonresidents. Further details about the application of this order were announced by Order No. 242 of July 11. June 5. Foreign countries were defined by Order No. 187/MFC/CAB as all countries not included in the territory of Upper Volta. The following, however, would be treated on the same footing as Upper Volta: France (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Mo- naco, the member countries of the West African Monetary Union, and the other Operations Account countries. June 10. Circular No. 45 made all overdrafts on Foreign Accounts in CFA francs and all advances to nonresidents subject to prior approval. The circular also contained provisions about import payments, noncommercial payments, the collection of export proceeds, and dealings in for- eign banknotes by authorized banks. The autho- 507 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA rized banks were required to limit their exchange position each day to that existing on May 31. July 11. Circular No. 53 revoked the provi- sions of Circular No. 45 concerning Foreign Accounts in Francs. July 11. Circular No. 54 revoked the provi- sions of Circular No. 45 concerning the sale of foreign banknotes to residents traveling to foreign countries. It provided rules for the allocation of means of payment to resident travelers, up to CFAF 100,000 for tourist travel and up to CFAF 300,000 for business travel. It authorized nonresident travelers going to a foreign country to take out CFAF 100,000 in BCEAO banknotes. July 15. Circular No. 56 was issued concern- ing the purchase of spot and forward exchange cover, payments for imports, transfers of less than CFAF 25,000, and all noncommercial payments. It revoked the provisions of Circular No. 45 con- cerning payments to foreign countries. July 27. Special procedures for imports from and exports to Ghana were established by Notice to Traders No. 013. September 12. Decree No. 68-221/PRES/ MFC revoked with effect from September 15 Decree No. 68-120/PRES/MFC and the regula- tions issued for its implementation. This action abolished the temporary exchange controls. November 25. Decree No. 68-282 suspended Decree No. 68-221 and put into force again the provisions of Decree No. 68-120 and all regula- tions issued for its implementation. This action re-established exchange control in relations with foreign countries. December 4. Decree No. 68-295/PRES/MFC prohibited, except with the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, all payments and transfers by residents to foreign countries, or within Upper Volta, in favor of a nonresident; all imports and exports of gold, means of payment, and securities; and all transactions and transfers leading to the constitution of assets abroad by a resident, or to the holding of foreign means of payment in Upper Volta by a resident. All claims on foreign coun- tries or nonresidents resulting from exports, earnings, or income had to be collected and, where appropriate, surrendered. Settlements and exchange transactions between Upper Volta and 508 foreign countries normally had to be made through the intermediary of the BCEAO, the Pos- tal Administration, or an authorized bank. All import and export transactions relating to foreign countries had to be domiciled with an authorized intermediary. All foreign securities, foreign exchange, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries had to be deposited with an authorized intermediary, whether they belonged to residents or nonresidents. Decree No. 68-282 was revoked. Insofar as they were contrary to the provisions of the new decree, the provisions of Decree No. 67-150 of June 29, 1967 and its implement- ing regulations were suspended. December 4. Decree No. 68-296/PRES/MFC submitted to control by the Minister of Finance all claims and liabilities in CFA francs and in any foreign currency that banks in Upper Volta had vis-a-vis foreign countries. This control could be delegated to the BCEAO (see also January 29, 1969, below). December 5. Order No. 426/MFC/DT-CP/ SFE listed the types of payments that could be made freely to foreign countries through an autho- rized bank or, if previously approved by the BCEAO, through the Postal Administration. Non- resident accounts in Upper Volta could no longer be credited with BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. All amounts subject to surrender had to be collected and, where appropriate, sold on the exchange market, within two months of the due date. Such pay- ments could not be collected in banknotes or to the debit of a postal checking account in Upper Volta. The due date for export receipts had in principle to be within 180 days after arrival of the commodities. The order also contained defi- nitions of "foreign countries," "residents," and "nonresidents." Foreign countries were defined as on June 5, above. December 5. Order No. 427/MFC/DT-CP/ SFE appointed two commercial banks and the Postal Administration as authorized intermedi- aries, the latter only for payments that had obtained the prior approval of the BCEAO. December 5. Order No. 428/MFC/DT-CP/ SFE provided that resident and nonresident trav- elers could not take out more than CFAF 10,000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution in BCEAO banknotes, or the equivalent in French banknotes or banknotes of an institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Imports by resident or non- resident travelers of BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes of any institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury would be free, as would be imports of any means of payment denominated in a foreign currency; foreign banknotes brought in by residents had to be surrendered within eight days. The order also introduced for travel to for- eign countries an exchange allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 a person until the end of the year. December 5. The Ministry of Finance and Commerce issued Circular No. 106 to the autho- rized banks, concerning Foreign Accounts in Francs and foreign dossiers for securities. The former were defined as comprising accounts in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Any over- draft on a Foreign Account in Francs and gen- erally any advance to a nonresident required the approval of the BCEAO; exempt were normal mail credits granted to the banks' foreign cor- respondents. December 17. Order No. 436/MFC/DT- CP/SFE required the prior approval of the BCEAO to send means of payment, titles to claims or property, and domestic or foreign secu- rities to a foreign country through the mail or by parcel post. The BCEAO and the authorized banks were exempt from this prior approval. December 19. Decree No. 68-305/PRES/ MFC amended Articles 1 and 6 of Decree No. 68-295. December 19. Circular No. 115 established approval procedures for payments to foreign countries. The Minister of Finance delegated his approval authority to the authorized intermedi- aries for specified types of payment and up to specified limits, and to the BCEAO for all other cases. December 30. Circular No. 121 established procedures for the domiciliation of import trans- actions and for payments for imports from for- eign countries. Proof of actual importation had UPPER VOLTA to be submitted in the form of a customs docu- ment (attestation d'importation)', this document would at the same time serve as an import cer- tificate for commodities requiring such a certifi- cate. Imports from Ghana remained subject to the provisions of Notice to Traders No. 013 of July 27, 1968. December 30. Circular No. 122 established procedures for the domiciliation of export trans- actions and for controls over the repatriation of export proceeds. The requirement of an exchange commitment (engagement de change) was rein- troduced for exports to foreign countries, and the exporter had to fill out an export form (attes- tation d'exportation). NOTE. —The following changes early in 1969: took place January 29. The control over the banks' posi- tion vis-a-vis foreign countries in CFA francs and foreign currencies was delegated to the BCEAO by Order No. 25/MFC/DT-CP/FE. February 4. The BCEAO issued Instruction to Banks No. 1 concerning the control over the authorized banks' foreign claims and liabilities. Another directive on the same subject was issued on February 20 by Instruction No. 2. February 14. Circular No. 017 established the terms on which foreign exchange could be pur- chased forward. This was only allowed for import payments; the facility was limited to specified commodities, either for one month or for three months, and was not renewable. February 26. Order No. 128/MFC/DT- CP/FE revoked Order No. 428/MFC/DT- CP/SFE of December 5, 1968 and established the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 a person a year for travel by residents to foreign countries (CFAF 25,000 for children under ten ). Resident travelers could in addition take out up to CFAF 10,000 in banknotes issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, and any institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Resident travelers were required to obtain a personal foreign exchange booklet (carnet de change) in which all purchases and sales of foreign exchange must be marked. 509 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UKUGUAY Exchange Rate System On October 7, 1960, a par value for the Uruguayan Peso was established by Uruguay with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. Certain exchange transactions take place in an official exchange market conducted by the mone- tary authorities.1 Other exchange transactions take place in an interbank free market in which the Central Bank intervenes. The commercial banks are not permitted to exceed specified over- bought and oversold positions and must surrender any excess exchange holdings to the Central Bank. On December 31, 1968, the official buying and selling rates were Ur$248 and Ur$250 per US$1, respectively, and the interbank free mar- ket rate was about Ur$248.50 per US$1. The pro- ceeds from basic exports must be surrendered to the monetary authorities. Such proceeds are sub- ject to taxes (detracciones), which give rise to various effective buying rates. A tax of %0 of 1 per cent is payable on all funds received from abroad. Many imports are subject to surcharges. Administration of Control Exchange transactions are carried out through the authorized banks and the monetary authori- ties. The latter collect import surcharges and export taxes, hold the prepayments and advance deposits required for certain imports, and receive export and import registrations. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Uruguay has bilateral payments agreements are made through accounts maintained in U.S. dollars as the accounting unit.2 Settlements with other coun- tries are made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to registration prior to placing orders abroad. Imports of virtually all 1 On March 1, 1967 a new Central Bank was estab- lished but some operations are still being carried out on its behalf by the Bank of the Republic. The term "monetary authorities" as used here refers to both banks taken together. 2 These countries are Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ger- many, Poland, and Spain. 510 goods are freely permitted. The monetary autho- rities make exchange available for public sector transactions, to commercial banks in respect of current transactions, and at their own discretion to private customers. Imports are classified in seven categories: goods in one category are not subject to surcharge; goods in the other six cate- gories are subject to a surcharge of 10, 60, 90, 150, 225, or 300 per cent, which is payable at the time of registration. Many imports require prepayments (consignaciones) in Uruguayan pesos of a certain percentage of the c.i.f. value; the prepayment must be lodged with the mone- tary authorities at the time of registration and is refundable on application after eight months. Imports by public sector agencies are exempt, as are imports financed by U.S. aid or loans from the IBRD, the IDE, and the Export-Import Bank of the United States. An advance deposit of 200 per cent is required on imports of vehicles equipped with foreign-made tires or tubes. The advance deposit must be made with the monetary authorities at the time the import is registered; it is refunded 180 days later. The following pre- payments were required in the period October 1- December 31, 1968. For goods free of surcharge or subject to a 10 per cent surcharge, and some items subject to a 60 per cent surcharge, a prepay- ment of 150 per cent (105 per cent on imports from LAFTA countries) was applicable to any imports by each importer in excess of 60 per cent of the value of imports that were exempt from prepay- ment in the period April 1-September 30, 1968; for other goods subject to a 60 per cent surcharge, and for those subject to a 90 per cent surcharge, a prepayment of 300 per cent (210 per cent for LAFTA countries) was applied for each importer on any excess of imports over 50 per cent of the value of his imports that were exempt in April 1- September 30, 1968; and for imports subject to higher surcharges, a prepayment of 400 per cent (280 per cent for LAFTA countries) was appli- cable on any excess of imports over 50 per cent of the value of imports that were exempt in the period mentioned. Special regulations apply to imports of specified capital goods; for these, the prepayment rates depended on the financing and varied from 50 to 225 per cent for imports from countries other than LAFTA members and from 35 to 155 per cent for imports from LAFTA ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution countries, while imports with more than three years' external financing were exempt. There are no limitations on the export of foreign or domestic banknotes. URUGUAY Imports of all items appearing in the Urugua- yan concession list for trade with LAFTA coun- tries or the special concession lists for Ecuador and Paraguay are exempt from advance deposit requirements and are subject to reduced prepay- ments; some of these items are also exempt from surcharges, while the rest are subject to reduced percentages. All imports are subject, in addition to any customs duty required, to additional import duties ranging from 1.5 per cent to 18 per cent of the c.i.f. value and payable upon customs clear- ance. All imports valued at over US$1.82 are subject to consular charges of %0 of 1 per cent on the peso amount resulting from conversion of the f.o.b. value at a rate of Ur$55 per US$1; the amount of the charges is payable in foreign exchange, at a rate of about U r$l = US$2.10 (at a rate of about U r$l = US$1 for private imports of petroleum and petroleum products, alcohol, and tetraethyl lead, and about U r$l = US$0.50 for official imports of the same commodities). Prepayments, advance deposits, and surcharges in most cases are calculated on average c.i.f. prices (aforos) established for many commodities or on the actual c.i.f. value, whichever is higher. In a few cases, the calculation is based on an officially assessed price (also referred to as aforo), which usually is expressed in U.S. dollars per kilogram. Imports ordinarily subject to the 10 per cent surcharge are exempt from this surcharge if trans- ported in Uruguayan ships. Payments for Invisibles There are basic exchange allowances for cer- tain current invisibles.3 Payments for all other invisibles may be made freely through the inter- bank market. Companies constituted outside Uruguay are required to pay a 4 per cent tax on income accruing in Uruguay and a further 10 per cent when transferring this income from Uruguay. 3 In February 1969, the exchange allocation for foreign travel was established at the equivalent of US$100 a person a trip for travel to neighboring coun- tries and at the equivalent of 200 per cent of the fare for travel to other countries. Exchange for fam i ly remit- tances was limited to the equivalent of US$100 a month for each recipient. Exports and Export Proceeds The proceeds of the principal exports are sub- ject to taxes (detracciones or retentions), which are withheld by the monetary authorities. For some commodities, the tax is stipulated in pesos by unit of export commodity, but it may not be more than 50 per cent or less than 0.01 per cent of the peso proceeds of the export, except that for exports of greasy wool the stipulated mini- mum is 25 per cent, while for washed and scoured wool, tops, wool yarn, and the by-products of combing and spinning it is 5 per cent; these per- centages may be adjusted at 60-day intervals. The exchange proceeds of exports subject to taxes must be surrendered in full to the monetary authorities, not later than 10 working days after shipment has been authorized; the proceeds of other exports need not be surrendered. For exports of wool and meat, minimum f.o.b. values (minimum surrender prices or aforos) expressed in U.S. dollars per kilogram have been established for various grades and types. Subsidies are granted on certain nontraditional exports. Exports of certain types of beef-dairy cows and wool ewes are prohibited. Exports of wheat are from time to time permitted up to certain quan- tities. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds from invisibles may be held, utilized, or sold in the interbank market. There are no limitations on the import of foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital Inward capital transfers by either residents or nonresidents may be made freely through the interbank market. Outward capital transfers are subject to prior authorization and are restricted. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, in Uruguay or abroad; any purchases abroad, however, must normally be financed from the buyer's own exchange holdings. Imports and exports of gold by or on behalf of 511 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY the monetary authorities or authorized industrial and professional users are settled at the official buying and selling rates; all other imports of gold are temporarily suspended. Payments and receipts in respect of all other international transactions in gold are settled through the interbank market. Changes during 1968 During the year, many changes were made in the commodity coverage of the various existing surcharges. In addition, exemption from prepay- ments was granted to imports under U.S. Public Law 480, under the sectoral loan of the U.S. AID, and under loans granted by the IBRD, the IDE, and the Export-Import Bank of the United States. January 5. Law No. 13637 increased the range of additional import duties from 1.5-15 per cent to 1.5-18 per cent of the c.i.f. value. January 15. The remaining import prohibitions were revoked, with the exception of that for kits for the assembly of automobiles. A deposit of 400 per cent was required for imports of auto- mobiles, trucks, and chassis. January 15. The advance deposit requirement of 200 per cent was eliminated except for vehicles equipped with foreign tires and inner tubes. January 31. Decree No. 74/968 established new conversion rates for the calculation of con- sular charges. April 1. The system of import prepayments (consignations) was revised. New prepayments were made effective for the period April 1-Sep- tember 30, 1968 as follows: for goods free of surcharge or subject to 10 per cent surcharge (as well as some items subject to 60 per cent sur- charge) a prepayment of 150 per cent (105 per cent for LAFTA countries) was applied on any imports by each importer in excess of 30 per cent of their value in the period July 1, 1966- October 31, 1967; for other goods subject to a 60 per cent surcharge and for those subject to a 90 per cent surcharge, a prepayment of 300 per cent (210 per cent for LAFTA countries) was applied on any excess of imports by each importer over 30 per cent of their value in 1964; and for goods subject to higher surcharges, a 400 per cent prepayment (280 per cent for LAFTA countries) became applicable on any excess of imports over 25 per cent of their value in 1963. 512 Imports of specified capital goods could hence- forth be exempted from prepayments by the Advisory Committee if it ruled that their importa- tion conformed to the general aims of foreign trade policy; otherwise they were subject to a prepayment of 225 per cent of their c.i.f. value (155 per cent for LAFTA countries). Further- more, items covered by LAFTA complementarity agreements became subject to a special prepay- ment of 300 per cent (210 per cent for LAFTA countries) on any imports in excess of 50 per cent of their value in 1967. April 16. All sales of foreign exchange by the monetary authorities to public sector agencies henceforth had to be made in accordance with approved foreign exchange budgets. April 29. The official exchange rates were depreciated from Ur$198 buying and Ur$200 selling to Ur$248 and Ur$250, respectively, per US$1. April 29. The retention taxes on wool exports were increased. May 24. Certain subsidies of up to 20 per cent on exports of nontraditional manufactured goods, which had been eliminated on Novem- ber 6, 1967, were reintroduced. May 27. The retention tax on lamb exports was reduced from 50 per cent to 0.01 per cent. June 7. The prohibition of imports of kits for the assembly of automobiles was lifted. June 12. Restrictions on outward capital transfers were introduced. The monetary autho- rities stood ready to supply exchange to commer- cial banks only to cover their requirements for current payments. The operations of the exchange houses were confined to tourist exchange, includ- ing the sale of exchange for passenger tickets, and freight payments. For travel purposes, the banks could sell reasonable amounts of exchange on production of travel tickets and passports or similar documents. Sales of exchange for family remittances were made only by the Bank of the Republic, subject to evidence of payment of income tax and capital levy. July 5. Importers of specified capital goods with a value of over US$10,000 who could not secure an exemption from prepayments were allowed to benefit from a new schedule of reduced ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution prepayments provided that certain financing requirements were fulfilled and subject to autho- rization by the Advisory Committee. July 12. All import applications henceforth had to be presented to the Bank of the Republic or another commercial bank instead of to the monetary authorities, as before. The banks would collect the applicable surcharges and advance deposits and a commission of 1 per cent. August 8. Restrictions on payments for cur- rent invisibles were introduced. The Central Bank and the commercial banks agreed that the latter were to limit the sale of exchange for travel and family remittances to specified allowances. The sale of exchange for family remittances could again be made by commercial banks and exchange offices. August 14. The aforo applicable to exports of frozen beef to the United Kingdom was raised. August 29. The special prepayment rates for imports covered by the complementarity agree- ments with LAFTA countries were eliminated. September. The retention taxes on wool exports were lowered substantially. September 18. The upper limit on subsidies extended to exports of nontraditional manufac- tured goods was raised from 20 to 30 per cent (35 per cent for shoes). URUGUAY September 29. The ajoros applicable to exports of various types of meat were reduced. October 1. The system of prepayments was again revised, but without change in the percent- ages of deposit required: for the first import cate- gory, the prepayment became applicable on any imports for each importer in excess of 60 per cent of the value of exempt imports in the base period April 1-September 30, 1968, and for the second and third import categories prepayments became applicable on any imports in excess of 50 per cent of the value of exempt imports in the base period. October 30. Law No. 13695 modified certain tax legislation. Export retentions would be levied on wool until September 30, 1970. Retentions would be credited to the producers from Octo- ber 1, 1970, and from October 1, 1969 would vary between 0.01 per cent and 25 per cent for beef and between 0.01 per cent and 50 per cent for dry, salted, pickled, or wet-blue hides and dry sheepskins. For wool the following export taxes would be levied on the aforo valuation of greasy wool from October 1, 1969: greasy wool, 4 per cent; trimmed greasy wool, 2l/2 per cent; washed wool, 11/2 per cent. Exports of manufac- tured woolen textiles were granted a subsidy of 22 per cent of the f.o.b. value. November 1. The conversion rates for the calculation of consular charges were again revised. 513 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.265275 gram of fine gold per Bolivar or Bs 3.35 = US$1. Exchange transac- tions take place at the following rates. The Central Bank of Venezuela purchases proceeds of the petroleum and iron ore exporting companies at the rate of Bs 4.40 per US$1. Most other exchange proceeds are purchased by commercial banks at rates close to Bs 4.48 per US$1. Proceeds from exports of cacao and coffee may be purchased also by the Central Bank at the rate of Bs 4.485 per US$1; in certain circumstances they are eli- gible for special subsidies (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below). The Central Bank sells exchange to the Government and its agencies and to the commercial banks at Bs 4.485 per US$1. Commercial banks sell exchange to the public at Bs 4.50 per US$1 for all transactions. The Central Bank, through its Import Subsidy Office, pays a subsidy of Bs 1.15 per US$1 on exchange purchased to make payments for imports of wheat and powdered milk. The Central Bank offers swap facilities under which it buys U.S. dol- lars at Bs 4.47 and resells at Bs 4.50. Administration of Control Import and export licenses, when required, are generally issued by the Ministry of Development or the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, depending on the commodity. Under the terms of an agreement between the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank, the latter has the respon- sibility of ensuring that a subsidy is applied to the appropriate transactions; the Import Subsidy Office of the Central Bank administers the pay- ment of this subsidy, which is granted only on import payments for wheat and powdered milk (see section on Exchange Rate System, above). Imports of these products require both an import license from the Ministry of Development and a permit from the Import Subsidy Office; exports containing a substantial component of wheat or powdered milk also require a permit from the Import Subsidy Office. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Payments between Venezuela and Chile and 514 Mexico may be made through accounts main- tained with each other by the Central Bank of Venezuela, and the central banks of Chile and Mexico. Imports and Import Payments Certain goods either are prohibited or may be imported only by the Government; the former include fully assembled automobiles and certain textiles. Many other commodities require import licenses; quantitative restrictions are maintained on these items for protective purposes. Import licenses for some products are issued on the con- dition that the importer has purchased domestic products equal to a prescribed percentage of the amount imported. Imports eligible for the subsidy of Bs 1.15 (wheat and powdered milk) require permits from the Import Subsidy Office and import licenses from the Ministry of Development. All other commodities are free from import licensing. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely; exchange for this purpose is purchased from com- mercial banks. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses for the export of some products essen- tial to the domestic economy (including coffee and cacao) must be obtained from the Ministries of Development and Agriculture and Livestock. Export permits from the Import Subsidy Office are also required if commodities eligible for the Bs 1.15 subsidy are a substantial component of the export. The export of gold requires an export license issued by the Ministry of Finance. The petroleum and iron ore exporting companies must surrender to the Central Bank export proceeds, to the extent of their local currency requirements (including taxes ), at a rate of Bs 4.40 per US$1. Exporters of coffee and cacao may sell exchange proceeds to the Central Bank at Bs 4.485 per US$ 1; they may receive an additional payment for this exchange in the form of a subsidy, calculated to prevent the f.o.b. bolivar prices of these prod- ucts in Venezuelan ports from falling below speci- fied minimum amounts regardless of external dol- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution lar prices for these products. The minimum prices guaranteed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock range from Bs 168.19 to Bs 181.64 per quintal for coffee, and from Bs 121 to Bs 145 per quintal for cacao. The benefit of these arrangements is also extended to firms processing domestic coffee or cacao for export. On the basis of the prices existing during 1968, such additional payments were being made for all grades of coffee and the lower grades of cacao. The export of strategic materials to certain countries is prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles are freely dis- posable. Capital All capital transfers are permitted freely. Brokerage activity in Venezuela, however, in shares or units of foreign investment trusts or mutual funds is prohibited. There is no registra- tion procedure for incoming capital. Gold Residents may hold, acquire, and sell gold coins in Venezuela for numismatic and investment pur- poses; authorized banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and with other residents. Residents other than the monetary authorities, VENEZUELA producers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not allowed without special permission to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins, at home or abroad. Registered gold dealers, however, may freely and without a license import gold in any form. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are normally granted for exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities, producers of gold, and industrial users. Changes during 1968 During the year, a number of additional com- modities were made subject to an individual import license. March 25. The basic features were announced of the service contracts concerning new oil explo- ration rights which the Government would be pre- pared to negotiate with any foreign oil producer. The policy of concluding concession agreements, which was interrupted ten years earlier, would not be resumed. April 22. The National Banking Council decided that companies operating in Venezuela which are 50 per cent or more foreign owned could not take up local bank credit unless they deposited at least half their capital reserves and earned surpluses in Venezuelan banks. May 28. The restrictions on those textiles already subject to import licensing were tightened. 515 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VDET-NAM Exchange Rate System No par value for the Vietnamese Piastre has been established with the Fund. The official parity is VN$80.00 per US$1. No sales or purchases of exchange take place at the official rate. The official rate plus a Consolidation Premium or a Consolidation Tax of VN$38.00 per US$1, giving rise to effective rates of VN$117.20 buying and VN$118.80 selling, applies to all exchange receipts other than those arising from exports of rubber and handicraft products, and to all sales of exchange except those for certain student expenses and for imports subject to an equalization tax (taxe de per equation). Effective buying rates of VN$ 116.03 and VN$205.10, respectively, result from the application of a 1 per cent tax on pro- ceeds from rubber exports and a 75 per cent sub- sidy on proceeds from handicraft exports. On the selling side, the application of equalization taxes to the VN$118.80 rate results in effective selling rates ranging from VN$128.80 to VN$333.80 per U.S. dollar for imports subject to equalization tax. A scholarship subsidy of VN$38 per U.S. dollar, which is granted on sales of exchange for certain approved students already abroad, results in an effective selling rate of VN$80.80 per US$1. (See Table of Exchange Rates, below.) Rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are computed on the basis of their official parities in relation to the effective U.S. dollar rate applied to the transaction concerned. Payments and receipts through the official market must be effected through the authorized exchange banks. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Direc- torate-General of Exchange of the National Bank of Viet-Nam. Most remittances must have the prior approval of the Directorate-General of Exchange; the authority to approve some pay- ments for private invisibles has been delegated to the authorized banks. Imports under the U.S. "Public Aid" program1 require no license but are subject to special contracts or procurement procedures; no import taxes are levied on these imports. Licenses for other imports financed with 1 I.e., imports under the Dollar Project, under part of the AID program, under Development Loan Funds, and under Titles II and III of U.S. Public Law 480. 516 U.S. aid are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and are countersigned by the National Bank (Directorate of Foreign Aid). Licenses for imports financed with Viet-Nam's own exchange are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and are coun- tersigned by the Directorate-General of Exchange. However, for imports of a noncommercial char- acter, machinery spare parts, and cultural ma- terials, when valued at US$50 or less, the Direc- torate-General of Exchange is authorized to grant licenses. Export licenses are issued by the Minis- try of Commerce, but they also require the approval of the Directorate-General of Exchange. Prescription of Currency All imports shipped from Hong Kong, irrespec- tive of their origin, must be paid for in sterling. All other imports financed by Viet-Nam's own resources must be settled in U.S. dollars, with the exception of imports from France and imports effected within the framework of a loan agree- ment, to both of which special regulations apply. Special rules are also applicable to imports financed by the U.S. Agency for International Development (AID). All other settlements are made in convertible currencies, mainly in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, or French francs. There is an inoperative payments agreement with the Republic of Korea. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may maintain accounts with banks, subject to the approval of the Directorate-General of Exchange. A category of nonresident accounts, called Capital Accounts, covers piastres owned by non- resident foreigners that may not be transferred abroad. Balances in Capital Accounts may be used for investment in certain areas of economic activ- ity designated by the Ministry of National Econ- omy. Their use is subject to the approval of the Directorate-General of Exchange. Investments financed from Capital Accounts generally are not covered by the Investment Law of 1963 (see sec- tion on Capital, below), and proceeds from the liquidation of such investments are credited to Capital Accounts unless the Ministry of National Economy has declared them eligible for the priv- ileges of the law. Balances in Capital Accounts are negotiable between nonresident foreigners. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports and Import Payments Most imports are made in accordance with an annual commercial import program, the bulk of which is divided into three parts: (1) imports financed with funds from the U.S. AID; (2) imports financed from Viet-Nam's own foreign exchange resources; and (3) "third-country- financed imports," i.e., imports financed with Japanese reparations, French, German, and Japa- nese loans, or French export credit. In principle, products imported under the AID program are not included among imports that are financed otherwise, and vice versa. However, when AID financing proves insufficient for obtaining imports of essential products, such imports may be financed from Viet-Nam's official exchange reserves. Many imports are prohibited. There is an open general license procedure for most per- mitted imports that are financed from the country's own exchange. Individual import licenses, which are not transferable, are, however, required for practically all imports. The issuance of licenses for most imports shipped from France is suspended. Some imports are permitted without foreign exchange (sans devises); these include imports by end-users with branches abroad, gifts and sam- ples, spare parts for international airlines, and other small imports, when the Directorate-General of Exchange is satisfied that the foreign exchange privately held by the importer has not been ob- tained illegally. Imports from Cambodia are suspended. Import licenses generally are valid for all noncommunist countries except Cambodia and France; the main exception is that certain goods financed by U.S. aid must originate in specified noncommunist countries (the Republic of China, India, the Republic of Korea, Morocco, Pakistan, the Philippines, Singapore, Tunisia, or the United States). Licenses for imports from the United States are valid for eight months, those for im- ports from Europe and Africa for six months, and those for other areas for four months. Imports are classified in 18 broad categories. An importer may make application to import goods only in a specified number of categories. Import licenses under programs financed by the U.S. AID are not issued for shipments valued at less than US$5,000. No minimum value is VIET-NAM imposed on licenses for imports financed with Viet-Nam's own foreign exchange. Penalties for underutilization apply when less than 90 per cent of the value of the import license is used. The rate of penalty is VN$10 for each unutilized U.S. dollar. All imports financed with Viet-Nam's own foreign exchange and valued at VN$ 10,000 or over require a letter of credit. Mandatory margin deposits are prescribed on the opening of import letters of credit for most commodities; depending on the goods involved, these deposits are 10, 15, and 20 per cent. They are calculated on the countervalue at VN$118 per US$1 of the invoice price plus the applicable equalization tax. Although the minimum margins are set at 10, 15, and 20 per cent, commercial banks are free to apply higher margins according to the standing of the importer and the market situation for the commodity con- cerned. Some essential commodities are exempt from margin deposit requirements; these include flour, milk, sugar, newsprint, and petroleum products. An import license constitutes at the same time an exchange license. Exchange is granted for all authorized imports at the official rate plus a Consolidation Tax of VN$38 per US$1. An "austerity" tax, ranging from 10 per cent to 210 per cent and payable upon customs clearance, is charged on the c.i.f. value of nonessential or competitive imports calculated at the official rate of exchange.2 Many imports also are subject to an equalization tax, ranging from VN$10 to VN$215 per US$1 and payable upon the opening of a letter of credit, when they are financed with Viet-Nam's own foreign exchange or sans devises; imports financed by foreign aid are exempt from this tax. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles require approval by the Directorate-General of Exchange. Exchange for all authorized invisibles is sold at the official rate, plus a Consolidation Tax of VN$38 per US$1. A subsidy of VN$38 per US$1 is applied to transfers for expenses abroad of those govern- ment-sponsored students who were already abroad 2 The range of the austerity tax was changed on February 28, 1969 to 5-200 per cent. 517 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM before the 1968-69 academic year. For this cate- gory the subsidy will be continued until gradua- tion. Students are granted US$80 a month for study in the Republic of China or Hong Kong, and US$150 a month for study elsewhere; they are also granted allocations for housing and for extra- ordinary expenses. Foreign specialists employed in Viet-Nam may transfer 60 per cent of their salary if their family is abroad, or 50 per cent if they are single or have their family in Viet-Nam; they are also entitled to a special allocation for home leave. Foreign firms are generally permitted to trans- fer up to 90 per cent of their net annual profit after tax, after examination of their accounts and after deduction of any losses in previous years. Profit transfers by foreign enterprises established or expanded after 1963 under the terms of the 1963 Investment Law are governed by the pro- visions of that law (see section on Capital, below). All dividends declared in Viet-Nam and accruing to nonresidents may be transferred in full, after payment of taxes. Resident nationals may once a year, subject to prior authorization by the National Bank, acquire foreign exchange for tourist travel equivalent to up to US$30 a day, depending on their financial status, and on the area to be visited, and subject to a limit of US$2,700 a yea r ;3 children under 12 are entitled to one half of this allocation. These amounts may be supplemented by the equivalent of US$40 in foreign banknotes. There are special allowances for business travel. Vietnamese nationals are required to pay an exit visa fee of VN$20,000 for each country to be visited. Travelers are permitted to take with them up to VN$ 1,000 in Vietnamese banknotes. Foreign exchange not used by foreign travelers may be re-exported when a declaration is made to the customs and evidence is given that any utilized exchange has been sold to an authorized bank. Exports and Export Proceeds All permitted exports require a license; they must be registered with an authorized bank, which is responsible for the repatriation of the foreign 3 From March 1969, the allocation of exchange for tourist and business travel was limited to 30 days a year, instead of 90 days, as previously. Consequently, the max imum of US$2,700 was reduced to US$900. 518 exchange. All exports to communist countries and exports to any destination of manufactured or semimanufactured products originally imported into Viet-Nam, gold, rice, rice products, and cer- tain other items are prohibited. Export proceeds must be surrendered at the official rate, plus a Consolidation Premium of VN$38 per US$1. Export subsidies are granted on specified minor exports as follows: VN$52.50 per kilogram on black tea, VN$20 per kilogram on green tea, VN$30 per kilogram on coffee, VN$9 per kilogram on polynemus, and VN$14 per kilogram on kapok. In addition a number of handicraft products are entitled to a subsidy of VN$0.75 for each piastre worth of exports, pay- able when the exchange proceeds are sold. Export proceeds of rubber are subject to a tax of 1 per cent on the f.o.b. value calculated at the official rate of exchange. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds from invisibles must be surren- dered at the official rate, plus a Consolidation Premium of VN$38 per US$1. Foreign military personnel and official U.S. civilian personnel serving in Viet-Nam are paid in scrip ("military payment certificates" or MPCs) which can be exchanged for piastres only through official channels; those personnel are not per- mitted to possess foreign banknotes or travelers checks in Viet-Nam. There are military banking facilities, however, under which eligible foreign persons may open accounts in piastres, MPCs, or U.S. dollars at two U.S. banks in Saigon. Travelers entering Viet-Nam may bring in any amount of foreign exchange, but it must be de- clared to the customs upon entry. A traveler may bring in Vietnamese banknotes up to a total of VN$ 1,000. Foreign military and civilian personnel (government officials) are not permitted to bring foreign banknotes into Viet-Nam. Capital Under general regulations, capital may be imported without formalities, but foreign investors must register their capital with the Vietnamese authorities and agree on the terms of the invest- ment in order to be able to repatriate their capital ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution and to transfer profits. Under the Investment Law of 1963, special benefits may be accorded to new foreign investments in the sectors of the economy that are given high priority. Applications must be approved by the interdepartmental Investment Committee. The minimum investment in agricul- ture was established at VN$0.5 million, and in industry at VN$1 million. Imports of equipment and spare parts needed by foreign undertakings covered by the law are exempt from customs duties. Foreign technicians employed by these enterprises are exempt from income tax for 2 years. Foreign investments are free of taxes on profits, securities, and real estate for specified periods of time. The new investments are not subject to any nationalization measures for the first 15 years from the date of the written authori- zation granted to the investor; they are accorded the same treatment as that applicable to domestic investments. The law provides for the transfer of profits at an annual rate of up to 20 per cent of the invested capital, and for the repatriation of the original investment after 5 years at an annual rate of up to 20 per cent if the capital is newly imported (after 20 years for investment of foreign- owned capital previously held in Viet-Nam). All imports and exports of capital (including imports in kind) are settled at the rate of VN$118 per US$1. Investments not covered by the Investment Law are subject to the regulations and case-to-case decisions of the Directorate-General of Exchange, which authorizes the transfer of up to 90 per cent of net annual profits after taxes but does not per- VIET-NAM mit disinvestment; such investments are not eligible for the above-mentioned tax exemptions. Gold Within Viet-Nam, the holding of gold and all transactions in gold are subject to licensing, but the controls are not rigidly enforced and unlicensed holdings of gold by individuals are tolerated. Only the National Bank is empowered to import and export gold. All domestic transactions in gold are subject to a luxury tax of 10 per cent on the sale value or the manufacturing cost. The export of gold by physical or juridical persons other than the National Bank is prohibited. The import of gold by physical or juridical persons other than the National Bank is also prohibited, with the following exceptions: (1) Vietnamese settled in Laos may, when returning to Viet-Nam, bring in up to 13 taels4 of gold in the form of jewelry; (2) residents may import gold without allocation of foreign exchange, provided that they have an import license and pay a customs du ty of 90 per cent and an austerity tax of 75 per cent;5 (3) non- residents may, without allocation of foreign exchange, bring into Viet-Nam any quantity of gold, provided that its entry is declared and that it is deposited in safe custody with an authorized bank; the utilization of such gold is subject to prior authorization by the Directorate-General of Exchange, and if it is sold in Viet-Nam the sales proceeds must be credited to a Capital Account. 4 One tael equals about 37.5 grams or 1.18 troy ounces. 5 On February 28, 1969 the import duty was increased to 130 per cent and the austerity tax to 150 per cent. 519 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1968) (piastres per US. dollar) Buying Selling 80.80 (Official Rate) Transfers for expenses of approved students already abroad. 118.80 (Official Rate plus Consolidation Tax of VN$38) Imports not subject to equalization tax. Invisibles other than transfers for expenses of approved stu- dents already abroad. Authorized capital repatria- tion. 128.80- (Official Rate plus Consolidation Tax 333.80 plus Equalization Tax at 21 Rates Rang- ing from VN$10 to VN$215 per U.S. Dollar) Imports subject to equalization tax. 79.20 (Official Rate) No transactions. 116.03 (Official Rate plus Consolidation Premium less 1% tax) Rubber exports. 117.20 (Official Rate plus Consolidation Premium of VN$38) All exchange receipts except those arising from exports of rubber and handicraft products. 205.10 (Official Rate plus Consolidation Premium plus Subsidy of 75%) Hand icraft exports. Changes during 1968 During the year, a number of changes took place in the application of the equalization tax (taxes de VIET-NAM 1968-69 and thereafter, except for transfers to approved students already abroad. August 14. Residents required the prior autho- rization of the National Bank before they could purchase foreign exchange for travel purposes. September 19. The Export Subsidy Committee was empowered to establish supplementary sub- sidies on exports of Vietnamese cultural and artistic works. October 18. Imports of passenger automobiles no longer required a piastre advance deposit of 75 per cent of the c.i.f. value. December 7. Notice No. 80 of the National Bank reorganized the system of nonresident accounts in piastres. It revoked Notice No. 33 and Instruction No. 3 of July 1, 1956 and Notice No. 57 of March 16, 1960. A new type of non- resident account, designated as Accounts in Free Piastres, was introduced. 521 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0710937 gram of fine gold per Yugoslav Dinar or Din 12.50 = US$1. All exchange transactions take place at rates based on the par value. Administration of Control On the basis of laws governing these matters, the Federal Executive Council prescribes the gen- eral provisions in respect of foreign trade and exchange transactions. The Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade, by virtue of these general provi- sions, establishes rules and regulations and makes decisions governing commercial transactions, and issues import and export licenses when required. It is also charged with securing balanced trade with payments agreement countries. The Federal Secretariat for Finance prescribes the specific pro- visions governing exchange transactions. This Sec- retariat and the National Bank of Yugoslavia administer the exchange control. The National Bank prescribes the methods of payment to and from foreign countries; it also licenses compensa- tion transactions. All foreign exchange transactions must be car- ried out through the National Bank or an autho- rized bank. The latter are of three types. Fully authorized banks, which must have a minimum foreign exchange credit fund equivalent to US$2 million and an annual exchange turnover of at least US$80 million, may engage in all foreign exchange transactions in Yugoslavia and abroad, as well as in foreign credit operations (including the granting of guarantees). Limited authorized banks, which must have a minimum foreign exchange credit fund equivalent to US$400,000, may conduct foreign exchange operations in Yugo- slavia only; they may neither keep foreign exchange accounts abroad nor engage in foreign credit operations, except through the intermediary of a fully authorized credit bank. Authorized exchange offices, which may only deal in foreign banknotes and travelers checks; this status is open to all commercial and savings banks. 1 In view of certain changes that took place on Jan- uary 1, 1969 (see note at the end of this su rv ey ), this survey presents the situation on that date. 522 Commercial exports and imports may be effected by all economic organizations (both pro- ducing and trading undertakings) registered for this purpose with district courts. Registration is effected automatically, provided that certain con- ditions, including the provision of minimum work- ing capital for trade enterprises, are fulfilled. Eco- nomic organizations that are not registered to conduct foreign trade channel their orders through economic organizations which export and/or import on their own behalf. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Yugoslavia has bilateral payments agreements are made in the currencies and according to the proce- dures set forth in those agreements. If no agree- ment exists, settlement is usually made in a convertible currency. Yugoslavia has payments agreements requiring settlements through bilateral clearing accounts as follows: (1) in U.S. dollars with Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Brazil, Bul- garia, Cambodia, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ger- many, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Hungary, Israel, Mali, Mongolia, Poland, Rumania, Spain, Tunisia, Turkey, the U.S.S.R., and the United Arab Repub- lic; ( 2) in sterling with mainland China; and (3) in their respective currencies with India and Iraq. Certain settlements with Colombia, Mexico, and Pakistan take place through special accounts. A degree of multilateralization of payments is provided under the bilateral payments agreements with Afghanistan, Iraq, and Mali. Nonresident Accounts Foreign juridical and physical persons may main- tain accounts denominated in foreign exchange and in dinars in Yugoslavia according to the fol- lowing rules. Foreigners resident outside Yugo- slavia may freely open accounts in convertible currencies in Yugoslavia. Foreign missions and foreigners resident in Yugoslavia may freely open with the National Bank accounts expressed in foreign currencies or dinars. Foreign exchange accounts of foreign juridical and physical persons are kept in the currency by which the account is fed, although payments to the credit of convertible currency accounts may be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution made in any convertible currency. Balances on these accounts may be used for all payments in Yugoslavia and abroad, except that, if an account is kept in the currency of a country with which Yugoslavia has bilateral payments arrangements, outward transfers from the account may be made only to that country. Balances on dinar accounts of foreign juridical and physical persons are wholly transferable in foreign exchange if derived from abroad in con- vertible currencies or if the accounts are fed by deposit of the countervalue of imported com- modities (partly processed goods and raw mate- rials) under the foreign exchange regulations. The opening of nonresident accounts to hold local currency deposits accruing from other sources requires the approval of the National Bank, as do all transfers abroad from such accounts. Deposits derived from royalties due to foreign persons, from payments for work per- formed in Yugoslavia by foreigners, from pen- sions, from disabled persons' allowances, or from alimony may be transferred abroad under certain conditions. The remaining balances on such dinar accounts may be used for living expenses in Yugo- slavia of the account holder and his close family if the account holder is a physical person, or of the owners and members of the company if the account holder is a juridical person. Yugoslav resident nationals may maintain for- eign exchange accounts with the National Bank or any authorized bank. These accounts are interest bearing, and interest is paid in foreign currency. Foreign exchange accounts may be retained for an indefinite period of time and they may be drawn upon freely for payments in Yugoslavia and abroad; balances are not transferable, however, to other persons or accounts (see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, below). Yugoslav emigrants resid- ing abroad and former emigrants returning to Yugoslavia may also open foreign exchange accounts in Yugoslavia that may be used freely for payments in Yugoslavia or abroad. Imports and Import Payments Commercial imports may be effected only by economic organizations registered as participating in foreign trade. In addition to economic organiza- tions specializing in foreign trade, most major industrial producers are registered. The import of YUGOSLAVIA certain basic foodstuffs, such as wheat, rice, coffee, lard, edible oil, and sugar, is carried out by eco- nomic organizations that have been selected by the Federal Office for Agricultural Products Reserves, on the basis of public bids, to act as its agents. For most commodities, import licenses are not required. All commodities included in the foreign trade nomenclature are classified in five categories according to the manner in which exchange is made available: LB—liberalized goods; LBO— conditionally liberalized goods; GDK—goods imported under global exchange quotas; RK and DK—goods subject to individual quotas (RK if individual quotas are fixed by quantity and DK if they are fixed in d inars); and D—imports subject to ad hoc licensing. Certain LBO and RK items are marked with an asterisk to indicate that the allocation of exchange is conditional on prior agreement between importers and domestic pro- ducers of the same or similar commodities con- cerning the method of importation, the volume of imports under trade agreements, etc. About 1,700 items (out of a total of over 4,400) are classified under LB; protective equipment for workers and all other goods not specifically included in the LBO, GDK, RK, DK, or D lists are also liberalized and free from any quantitative restriction. LB goods are mainly raw materials, foodstuffs, and spare parts; they also include some consumer goods. In 1968 goods imported under the LB regime accounted for some 20 per cent of total imports, and the percentage is expected to be 25 in 1969. Exchange for payments for LB imports from the convertible currency area is made available freely in any convertible currency appro- priate to the exporting country. Payments for imports of liberalized goods from payments agree- ment countries must be made in the manner pre- scribed in the relevant payments agreement and may be restricted according to the availability of funds in the appropriate clearing account. The LBO regime is intended to introduce greater flexibility for trade in the principal com- modities exchanged with payments agreement countries and to achieve balanced trade with bilat- eral countries. The import requirements for all commodities from bilateral countries, including those on the LBO list, are determined in consul- tation between the authorities and the economic organizations mainly concerned. On the basis of 523 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA import proposals made by the economic organiza- tions, the authorities negotiate bilateral agreements with the partner countries so as to ensure that required imports will be available. This permits licensing of Yugoslav exports to these countries for such amounts as are consistent with the prin- ciple of achieving balanced trade with the bilateral countries. Once agreement has been reached with bilateral partners with respect to the commodity lists, the economic organizations that have previ- ously expressed their interest in importing from a bilateral country a specified amount of goods on the LBO list must formally undertake to import those goods. To this effect they enter into contracts with authorized banks for the purchase of the nec- essary bilateral currencies. Once these contracts are concluded, the economic organizations involved and all other importers are permitted to import commodities on the LBO list freely from countries that do not have bilateral agreements with Yugo- slavia against payment in convertible currencies which will be made freely available against pay- ment in dinars. Imports of goods listed as LBO accounted for about 15 per cent of total imports in 1968, and the percentage is expected to be 10 in 1969. The GDK list comprises most consumer goods, some raw materials, and some types of capital equipment. In 1968 imports of commodities on this list amounted to about 50 per cent of total imports and the percentage in 1969 is expected to be also 50. Such imports can be made under sev- eral different procedures. Those for nonconsumer goods are as follows. Each importer of raw mate- rials and other reproduction materials receives a global foreign exchange quota and may use the exchange so allocated to purchase any such goods listed as GDK. For certain importers (the metal- working, shipbuilding, electrical, and textile indus- tries) the authority to use their allocated foreign exchange quota is dependent on the exports they linking).2 Major have made (import-export exporters, i.e., exporters whose exports settled in convertible currency account for more than 51 per cent of their total sales proceeds, are permitted to pay freely for imports of raw materials and other reproduction materials for their own needs. Pay- ment for imports of capital goods on the GDK list may be financed from specific exchange alloca- 2 This system is also applied to certain DK imports. 524 tions; a considerable portion may be freely financed from retention quota funds, funds origi- nating in depreciation allowances, and credits obtained abroad, including suppliers' credit. The specific exchange allocations are limited mainly to large investment projects, including public utilities; the amounts are determined by the Federal Assem- bly; in 1968 they accounted for some 25 per cent of total imports of equipment. Economic organiza- tions may acquire foreign exchange not exceeding 10 per cent of their annual depreciation allowance. Certain services may use percentages varying between 30 per cent (ocean and river shipping) and 100 per cent (air transportation). One half of the exchange thus allocated is in convertible and one half in bilateral currency. Imports under commodity quotas (list RK or list DK ), mainly selected agricultural and mineral products (such as wheat, sugar, rice, coffee, and salt) but also cigars, cigarettes, and machine tools, are subject to maximum quotas established for each commodity and cannot be imported under any other procedure. The quotas are established either in physical quantities (RK) or in dinars (DK ). There are separate quotas in each case for imports from convertible area countries and pay- ments agreement countries; their allocation among importers is decided by negotiations among the economic organizations.3 Imports of RK and DK items amounted to about 10 per cent of imports in 1968, and are expected to amount to 10 per cent in 1969 also. Goods in list D comprise gunpowder, ammuni- tion, opium, motor vehicles, tractors, certain tex- tile fibers and yarns, television sets, railroad rolling stock, and aircraft. Import licenses are required only for list D commodities. Such licenses do not imply the right to purchase foreign exchange; the economic organizations must supply the exchange from their global exchange quotas or retention quotas. Imports of D items accounted for about 5 per cent of total imports in 1968 and are also expected to represent 5 per cent in 1969. 3 In principle, any such allocation among importers must be agreed upon among economic organizations, within the Federal Economic Chamber. If the importers are unable to agree among themselves, the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade is authorized to decide on the distribution. Imports of coffee, wheat, sugar, rice, and salt for final consumption are administered by the State Food Administration, which is authorized to select the most competitive importer from among registered importers. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution For certain goods there is an additional require- ment, irrespective of those set out above, for a special import license ("accordance") issued by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade. These goods are 78 LB items, 44 LBO items, and 93 GDK items. Issuance of the special permit may be subject to the fulfillment of certain conditions, as follows. For 194 items in a list A, the Secre- tariat may prescribe direct importation from the country of origin; these items include a wide range of tropical foodstuffs and fruits, raw materials, fats, oils, and textiles, as well as tin and raw cot- ton. For 21 items in a list B, the permit may be made conditional on past or fu ture exports of Yugoslav commodities to the country of origin or to another specified country; the goods listed include many textile fabrics, and certain manufac- tured goods, including various domestic appliances and transistor radios. The commodities subject to this special regime represented about 7 per cent of total imports in 1968. Private persons who are Yugoslav nationals and hold foreign exchange accounts with Yugoslav banks may use these funds freely to import goods intended for their own use or the use of close rela- tives, regardless of the import regime for the goods. Also, Yugoslavs returning from work abroad may import goods intended for their per- sonal needs or the needs of their own household, provided that such goods were paid from the sav- ings from their foreign earnings; such savings need not be kept on foreign exchange accounts with Yugoslav banks. As an exception to the foregoing, owners of foreign exchange accounts and Yugoslav nationals working abroad may only import motorcars, trucks, motorcycles, mopeds, and bicycles, together with mounted motors and essential spare parts for these vehicles, through a registered enterprise, provided that payment is made through a foreign exchange account held at a Yugoslav bank and that the import is effected through a registered enterprise. Yugoslav and foreign nationals are exempt from this prescribed manner of payment and method of importation, however, under the following circumstances: when they return for permanent residence in Yugoslavia, provided that they have spent at least five years abroad; when a vehicle is inherited; when a motor vehicle is pur- chased out of an insurance indemnity received for a motor vehicle that has been destroyed and had YUGOSLAVIA originally been paid for in foreign currency; and if they have spent at least two years abroad con- tinuously and have owned a vehicle for at least two years. Yugoslav citizens returning from a tourist trip abroad may import any amount of goods intended for the needs of their household. However, if the value of the goods exceeds Din 1,000, these goods must be handed over, at the customs office at the point of entry, to a domestic forwarder for delivery to the owner's address; such delivery cannot be made unless the customs duties are paid. Compensation transactions are only authorized in exceptional circumstances; in 1968 they accounted for 1 per cent of total imports. Many agricultural commodities and foodstuffs are subject to variable import levies. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to merchandise transactions, including transportation, are fully liberalized. Exchange to cover export promotion expenses abroad is made freely available to exporters. Pensions, wages, and salaries are trans- ferable under certain conditions. Payments in respect of royalties and alimony granted by court order are freely transferable, but if a payment is to be made to a country with which Yugoslavia maintains bilateral payments arrangements, then such payments may be made only if the agreement in question provides for this to be done. The National Bank may sell foreign currency up to the equivalent of US$32 for remittances for court and other fees abroad and for specified personal expenses. The National Bank may sell any amount of foreign exchange for certain unspecified pur- poses and in justified cases. There is a basic annual exchange allowance of the equivalent of US$32 for tourist travel abroad. Travel agencies may obtain special exchange allo- cations to enable them to sell organized tours abroad against payment in dinars. The National Bank may also authorize travel agencies to sell foreign exchange for both group and individual travel in amounts exceeding the equivalent of US$32. The exchange is provided in the form of travelers checks and cash. Payments for other invisibles may be made from the remittor's own foreign exchange funds (e.g., from retention 525 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA quotas, or, when made by various social and sociopolitical organizations, from specific annual allocations); when such exchange is not available, payments for invisibles that have not been liberal- ized are subject to the approval of the National Bank. Not more than Din 50, in denominations of Din 10 or less, or in equivalent denominations in old dinar notes, may be taken out by travelers. Foreign travelers may bring in and take out any amount in foreign exchange without declaring it. Exports and Export Proceeds In principle, exports are free of control, except for certain raw materials that are in short supply on the domestic market, including copper and certain other materials such as gunpowder, weap- ons, and narcotic drugs. Exports to countries with which Yugoslavia has a bilateral payments agreement are subject to approval by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade. Such approval may also be given for a group of commodities or for all commodities to be exported within a certain period (global approval). Permission to export to bilat- eral countries may be made conditional on an undertaking to import from such countries. Proceeds from exports must be repatriated within 90 days from the date of exportation, unless specific approval is granted to deviate from this rule. The surrender of these proceeds is not required. The full export proceeds may be credited to foreign exchange sight deposit accounts which the exporter maintains with an authorized bank of his choice; all convertible currencies may be credited to one account, but separate accounts must be established for each bilateral currency. Exchange on these accounts may either be used, subject to the relevant regulations, for payments for imports and invisibles, or be sold to an autho- rized bank. Retention quotas may be used to pay for imports of certain consumer goods if such imports are made by economic organizations that are in the catering and tourist industries or are engaged in setting up trade fairs, and by film enter- prises; such imports are also permitted as con- signment stocks. The part of the export proceeds that remains at the free disposal of the exporter for payments abroad is referred to as the retention quota; the rest may be retained indefinitely but can only be used to import liberalized raw materials and can- 526 not earn interest. The retention quotas may also be placed on interest-bearing time deposit accounts with authorized banks. The permitted retention rates vary according to the type of export con- cerned, the share of exports in total sales of the economic organization concerned, and the increase in exports achieved over the past year; the basic rate is 7 per cent, but for many economic organi- zations the actually permitted rate is much higher, the other fixed rates being 10, 12, 20, 50, 60, and 100 per cent and the rate for most organizations being on a sliding scale. In some instances (foreign tourist services, sales of newly mined gold to the National Bank ), sales against payment in dinars are regarded as exports for retention quota pur- poses. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated within 90 days from the date on which the claim is payable but need not be surrendered in full. Various retention quota rates apply to receipts from services. Exchange proceeds may be used for payments abroad connected with the activities of the economic organization concerned, including payments for purchases of equipment and other material for its own needs. The retained exchange is not transferable to economic organizations other than those with which the recipients are cooperat- ing in technical and business matters, but it can always be sold to authorized banks. If the exchange is used to pay for imports, the usual import procedures apply. Residents may hold interest-bearing foreign cur- rency accounts in Yugoslavia. The accounts may be credited with the full amount of a person's sav- ings from per diem allowances, salaries, and other earnings abroad, from fellowships, and from royal- ties. They may also be credited with the full amount of foreign exchange accruing from inher- itances, indemnities, insurances, and similar com- pensations up to an amount equivalent to Din 100,000 per transaction; for amounts in excess of this figure, 30 per cent of the excess may be placed to the credit of the account and 70 per cent must be surrendered. In respect of pensions, disabled persons' allowances, alimony, and grants received from abroad, up to 30 per cent of the total amount received may be placed to the credit of a foreign exchange account and 70 per cent must be surrendered. These accounts may be used ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution freely for the personal needs of the account holder and of close members of his family; they are not transferable to other persons or accounts and may be retained for an indefinite period of time. Retail sales of manufactured goods by autho- rized trade organizations to foreign tourists in Yugoslavia paying in convertible exchange are made at a discount of 10 per cent, representing the exemption from turnover taxes. This discount is granted only on purchases in authorized shops against checks expressed in foreign currencies or against certain foreign banknotes. Not more than Din 100 in Yugoslav banknotes, in denominations of Din 10 or less, or in equiv- alent denominations in old dinar notes, may be brought in by travelers. Capital Foreign loans and credits may be freely con- tracted by fully authorized banks and economic organizations, up to a specified percentage of their foreign exchange credit fund, their retention quotas, or their foreign exchange amortization allocations. Foreign loans and credits must be recorded with the National Bank or a fully autho- rized bank. Such loans must ordinarily be repaid with currency obtained by the economic organi- zation as export retention quotas and foreign exchange amortization allocations. All other trans- fers of a capital nature by residents or nonresidents require individual licenses. Foreigners may invest in certain Yugoslav economic organizations through joint ventures; such foreign investment is limited to 49 per cent of the organization's capital. The foreign partner in a joint venture must either reinvest or deposit in a Yugoslav bank 20 per cent of its annual profits. Foreign equity participation in Yugoslav firms is prohibited. Foreign firms are also permitted to establish representational offices in Yugoslavia. The investment income of Yugoslav economic organizations earned abroad is subject neither to repatriation nor to surrender requirements. Res- idents are obliged, however, to repatriate and, with the exception of inheritances, surrender all foreign exchange held or accruing abroad on capital account. Capital transfers abroad by residents are usually not approved, but economic organizations participating in foreign enterprises may be allowed by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade and YUGOSLAVIA the Federal Secretariat for Finance to export the necessary capital. A decision of the Federal Executive Council on October 14, 1955 requires the Yugoslav authorities to continue to permit the remittance of inher- itances to citizens of the United States, provided that the remittance is requested within three years from the date of distribution of the estate. Gold Residents who are private persons may hold gold coins in Yugoslavia, which may only be sold to the National Bank of Yugoslavia, and they may freely hold, purchase, import, and sell gold jewelry and other articles of gold. Domestic economic organizations that have been registered as trading in gold may import gold jewelry under the GDK import regime; they may freely export gold jewelry and other articles of gold. The export of gold coins is not permitted, except under licenses issued by the National Bank. Sales of newly mined gold to the National Bank against payment in dinars are regarded as exports and entitle the seller to a retention quota in convertible foreign exchange. Changes during 1968 January 1. The import regime for 1968 went into effect. It included the following changes in import lists: the LBO list was reduced by 486 items (ne t ), the LB list was increased by 82 items (ne t ), and the GDK, RK, and D lists were increased by 321, 75, and 16 items (net), respec- tively. Altogether, 639 items and subitems were shifted from one list to another. Furthermore, imports of specified LBO and RK items were made conditional on prior agreement (on quality, coun- try of origin, etc.) between importers and domestic producers of the same or similar commodities; such items were listed as LBO* and RK*. January L Retention quotas could no longer be utilized to pay for imports of consumer goods. January L In order to prevent disruptive export and import competition among Yugoslav economic organizations, particularly with respect to foreign markets where special trading conditions exist, economic organizations controlling 75 per cent of certain geographic or product markets were allowed to conclude marketing agreements which must be respected by all other exporters in the same product line. 527 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA January 1. Improved domestic credit facilities were made available to economic organizations exporting ships or machinery or involved in con- struction work abroad. January 1. The facility was withdrawn whereby 10 per cent discounts had been granted to residents effecting purchases of certain domestically manu- factured goods by payment out of their own con- vertible foreign exchange accounts. The facility was restored with effect from March 21. March 1. Import duties were raised on a num- ber of commodities; these included various iron and steel products, some chemical products, syn- thetic yarn, glass, porcelain, and furs. April 3. The following changes were made in the import lists. Eight items were transferred from the LB list and 26 from the GDK list. One item was shifted to the LBO list, 4 were moved to the GDK list, 28 to the RK list, and 1 to the D list. April 10. The use of retention quotas for imports of consumer goods was permitted to spe- cified economic organizations, such as organiza- tions in the catering and tourist industries, those engaged in the setting up of trade fairs, and com- mercial representations. April 24. The global quotas for consumer goods for 1968 were published; they went into effect on May 1. April 24. A list of agricultural commodities and foodstuffs was published on which special import taxes were levied. May 15. Further changes were made in the import lists. The LB list was reduced by 29 items, the LBO list by 5, and the GDK list by 35 items. Of these items, 7 were shifted to the LB list, 16 to the LBO list, 8 to the GDK list, 30 to the RK list, and 8 to the DK list. June 3. Wool was shifted from the GDK list to the RK and DK lists. June 5. A 1 per cent statistical tax ("special tax for customs evidence") was imposed on all imports except those exempt from import duty. June 10. A 3 per cent ad valorem border tax ("equalization tax") was imposed on imports of all commodities other than those exempt from import duty. 528 June 19. As a temporary measure, the import of 215 commodities required an "accordance" issued by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade. June 19. Four items from the LBO list and 74 items from the GDK list were shifted to list D; these included certain kinds of motor vehicles. June 19. Yugoslav residents who have worked at least two years abroad or hold foreign exchange in their own foreign exchange accounts in Yugo- slavia could henceforth buy passenger automobiles only through the intermediary of working organi- zations registered for car imports or for represen- tation of foreign firms. June 30. Forty-two items, such as tools, machine tools, and specified agricultural machines, were shifted from the GDK list to the LBO and RK lists. July 13. A degree of multilateralization of pay- ments was introduced in the bilateral payments agreement with Afghanistan. July 25. Import duties on a number of indus- trial commodities were increased. September 18. Foreign firms could, if they met certain requirements, establish representational offices in Yugoslavia. October 2. Sixteen items were removed from the LB list, 9 from the LBO list, 68 from the GDK list, and 7 from the RK list. They were shifted as follows: 21 to the LB list, 43 to the LBO list, 3 to the GDK list, 31 to the RK list, and 2 to the D list. October 18. Further changes in the import lists were decided, to come into effect on January 1, 1969. December 77. A special feature governing cer- tain settlements with Jordan was eliminated. NOTE.—The following changes took place on January 1, 1969: January 1. The clearing arrangement with Switzerland was terminated; henceforth all settle- ments with that country would take place in con- vertible exchange. January 1. The import regime for 1969 went into effect. It provided for the shifting of 278 items from the LBO and GDK lists. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA1 Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.24414 grams of fine gold per Zambian Kwacha or K 1 = US$1.40. The autho- rized banks base their rates for other currencies on the current London market rates. On January 2, 1969 the rate for the U.S. dollar was US$1.4035 buying, and US$1.3860 selling, per K 1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Zambia under powers delegated to it by the Vice-President. Much of the authority for approv- ing normal current payments is in turn delegated to the commercial and merchant banks. The con- trol of trade is the responsibility of the Minister of Trade, Industry, and Mines, who also issues import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Zambia is a member of the Sterling Area and maintains prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom. Settle- ments with residents of other countries in the Sterling Area may be made in Zambian currency, in sterling, or in other Sterling Area currencies. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Zambia to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling or in Zambian currency to the credit of an External Account, or in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Payments from countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia may be received in sterling or in Zambian currency from an External Account, or in any currency freely exchangeable for sterling. Special regulations apply to settle- ments with Rhodesia. All permitted payments to residents of Rhodesia must be made in Rhodesian currency, in Zambian currency to an External Account —Rhodesia, in sterling to a Rhodesian Account in the United Kingdom, in U.S. dollars, or in Canadian dollars, and proceeds from exports to Rhodesia must be received in U.S. or Canadian dollars. 1In view of a change that took place early in 1969 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the situation on January 2, 1969. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Zambian currency held by residents of other parts of the Sterling Area are designated Scheduled Area Accounts. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds from sales of any foreign currency except Rhodesian pounds, with authorized payments by residents, and with trans- fers from other Scheduled Area Accounts. Bal- ances on these accounts may be converted freely into other Sterling Area currencies, may be used to pay residents of Zambia, or may be transferred to other Scheduled Area Accounts. Accounts in Zambian currency held with author- ized banks by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia are designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited with authorized payments from residents of the Sterling Area, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any foreign currency except Rhodesian pounds by nonresidents to authorized banks. They may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts or to Scheduled Area Accounts, and for purchases of any foreign currency other than Rhodesian pounds from authorized banks. Blocked accounts in Zambian currency held with authorized banks by residents of any country other than Zambia are credited with nontransfer- able capital sums in Zambian currency which have accrued to nonresidents. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Normally, approval is given for the investment of balances on blocked accounts in Zambian securities, provided that these are held in Zambia to the order of an authorized dealer. The interest on blocked account balances is freely transferable to the account holder's coun- try of residence, except interest due to a resident of Rhodesia, which is also blocked. Imports and Import Payments Most imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports of a few items listed in the first schedule of the open general license for imports do not require individual licenses, nor do any other goods, provided that they are not listed in the second schedule of the open general license and 529 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA that the person importing them does not import more than K 50 worth of such goods in any one month. The goods included in the second schedule of the open general license are clothing and uni- forms of a military type and secondhand clothing, gold, bags made of jute fiber, sugar, wheat flour, flick knives, accounting machines for sterling accounts, explosives, cement, fishing nets, twines, threads, yarns, bricks, certain radios and radio- grams for domestic use, some cups, saucers, and plates, cheaper-type blankets, matches, motor vehicles with four-wheel drive, some footwear, crown corks and stoppers, rubber tires and tubes, gasoline, aviation turbine fue l, paraff in for illumi- nation, automotive gas oil, and earthenware pipes. For some of these goods, licenses are generally refused. The goods included in the first schedule are certain oil products, coal and coke, personal and household effects, samples, and diplomatic shipments. Foreign exchange or permission to credit a non- resident account in accordance with the prescrip- tion of currency regulations is authorized auto- matically for all permitted imports, subject to the presentation of the relevant documents showing that the goods have either been received in or consigned to Zambia; special arrangements are in force, however, for payments in respect of freight charges on goods carried by Rhodesia Railways. Unless prior permission is otherwise obtained, all imports must be paid for within six months of the date of importation. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and also, up to certain limits, for other purposes, such as travel, is provided by the com- mercial banks without prior reference to the exchange control. Special, reduced allocations apply to payments for invisibles to Rhodesia. For other countries, exchange is granted as follows. The basic exchange allowance for travel is K 20 a day for an adult, with a max imum of K 900 for each period of two calendar years, and K 10 a day for each child under 12 years of age, with a max imum of K 450 per two calendar years. Exchange is provided, subject to certain limits, for other purposes, such as education, medical treat- ment, and business travel. Applications for amounts exceeding the limits may in certain circum- stances be granted by the exchange control author- 530 ities if they are satisfied that the exchange is needed for genuine current payments. Profits and dividends may be transferred abroad up to 30 per cent of equity capital, provided that the 30 per cent of equity capital does not exceed one half of the net profits. Foreign nationals employed in Zambia under a contract of not more than five years are permitted to remit one half of their earnings to Sterling Area countries and Rhodesia if they were recruited outside Zambia and one third if recruited in Zambia; applications for remittances to other countries are usually approved, provided that the applicant is normally resident outside the Sterling Area. These remittance facil- ities are available also to expatriates serving on pensionable terms of service or on contract after conversion from pensionable terms. Foreign nationals availing themselves of these arrange- ments are not entitled to the regular allowances for travel, education, maintenance, etc. To facili- tate small payments, individuals are freely per- mitted to remit abroad up to K 20 a month for purposes normally approved by the exchange control authorities. Travelers may not take out more than the equivalent of K 20 in foreign currency notes. The export of Zambian currency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Almost all goods require an export license. Most exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Certain commodities are subject to licensing mainly to ensure domestic supplies of needed goods and of certain strategic materials.2 For most goods, how- ever, export licenses are issued freely, and some goods are covered by an open general license. Export proceeds in foreign currency appropriate to the country of destination must be offered for sale to an authorized bank within six months of the date of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any currency must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Except for travelers from the Democratic Republic of Congo, there is no limitation on the amount of 2 Implements of war, lead in any form, certain m in- erals, petroleum products, certain rough and uncut precious stones, scrap and old metals, and jute bags. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution foreign currency notes that may be imported by travelers. The import of Zambian currency is pro- hibited. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted. Outward transfers of capital, including those to other parts of the Sterling Area, are controlled, but nonresidents are normally permitted to repatriate their investments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original investment was made with funds brought into the country from sources outside Zambia. In general, residents are not permitted to trans- fer capital abroad and, with certain exceptions, are required to offer for sale to an authorized bank any foreign exchange which accrues to them. As a special measure, however, residents may pur- chase Zambian securities quoted on recognized stock exchanges in the Sterling Area, provided that the securities so acquired are registered in the names of specified nominees and that in the event of subsequent disposal of these securities the sales proceeds are repatriated. All income earned from these investments must be repatriated. Emigrants are granted exchange as follows: (1) Persons 50 years of age and over are allowed K 16,000 on departure, and subsequent annual transfers of K 10,000. (2) Married persons under 50 are allowed K 8,000 on departure, together with K 500 for each child, up to a maximum of K 10,000 for a family unit. Thereafter, annual transfers of K 6,000, together with K 500 for each child, up to a maximum of K 8,000 for a family unit are permitted. (3) Unmarried persons under 50 are allowed K 4,000 on departure, and subse- quent annual transfers of K 3,000. Persons who have been employed on a contract basis and whose length of continuous residence has not exceeded five years are allowed to remit all their savings to their new country of residence. Persons who have been residents for longer than five years are nor- mally granted emigration treatment when they finally leave Zambia; in addition to their emigra- tion allowance, they may remit gratuities, com- pensation payments, and terminal benefits. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Zambia for numismatic purposes. With this ZAMBIA exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Minister of Trade, Industry, and Mines; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Foreign exchange for imports of gold may only be provided with the permission of the Bank of Zambia. Changes during 1968 January 4. The prohibition of the import of old Southern Rhodesian and Bank of Rhodesia and Nyasaland notes and coins was rescinded. January 16. A new currency unit, the kwacha, replaced the Zambian pound. It was equivalent to 10 shillings of the previous currency, the agreed par value being K 1 = US$1.40. The change did not involve an appreciation or depreciation. February 9. The basis for calculation of the export tax on copper was changed to 40 per cent of the amount, if any, by which the average price for the month on the London Metal Exchange, for the month concerned, exceeds K 600 a ton instead of <£Z 300 a ton, as previously. April 19. It was announced that the Govern- ment would buy, at book values, a majority inter- est in 26 foreign-owned or foreign-controlled com- panies operating in Zambia. April 20. Except with the prior permission of the Minister of Finance, no person could lend any money, treasury bills, or securities to (a) any indi- vidual, other than a citizen of Zambia; or (b) any body corporate other than one incorporated under the laws of Zambia whose membership is com- posed exclusively of individuals who are citizens of Zambia; or (c) any body corporate which is, by any means, directly or indirectly, controlled out- side Zambia or controlled by persons who are not citizens of Zambia; or (d) any person under terms whereby such a loan is secured by any individual not a citizen of Zambia or by any body corporate which is, directly or indirectly, controlled outside Zambia or by persons who are not citizens of Zambia. Authorized dealers were required to sub- mit to the exchange control for prior approval all applications for new overdraft facilities or renewal 531 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA of existing overdraft facilities. As an exception, no such prior approval was required for tem- porary overdraft facilities up to K 1,000 a person to individuals resident in Zambia. April 23. Restrictions were imposed on trans- fers of profits and dividends, including payment of dividends from funds held outside Zambia. Per- mission to remit profits and dividends would hence- forth be granted only when these did not exceed 30 per cent of the equity capital of the company concerned and provided furthermore that the 30 per cent did not exceed one half of the net profits. April 23. The exchange allocation for tourist travel was reduced from K 900 each calendar year to K 900 for each period of two calendar years. The limit up to which authorized dealers could approve applications for exchange for busi- ness travel was reduced from K 20 a day for a maximum period of 21 days to K 20 a day for a maximum period of 21 days in any calendar year. April 27. Authorized dealers no longer re- quired exchange control approval to grant loans and overdrafts to (1) any individual who is a citizen of Zambia, or (2) any firm or company incorporated under the laws of Zambia whose membership is composed exclusively of individuals who are citizens of Zambia, provided that the loan or overdraft was not secured, by guarantee or otherwise, by any individual not a citizen of Zam- bia or by any body corporate directly or indirectly controlled outside Zambia or by persons not citi- zens of Zambia. June 18. Additional items were added to the list of goods which were only licensed for impor- tation through the port of Dar es Salaam. August 28. Import licenses ceased to be required in respect of imports shipped through Dar es Salaam. The import of rubber tires and tubes was made subject to individual licensing. September 12. The import and export of Zambian currency notes and coins was prohibited; the prohibition also covered the repatriation of Zambian banknotes held by the banks' foreign branches and correspondents. The import into Zambia from the Democratic Republic of Congo of any foreign currency notes or coins to a value in excess of the equivalent of K 20 was prohibited, unless their export was authorized by an export permit issued by the Congolese authorities. 532 September 17. Payment into a blocked account in accordance with a directive of the exchange control authorities was deemed to constitute a good discharge to the person from whom the sum is due. September 23. Exchange control forms E (Imports Special) were required to be completed for all imports valued at K 1,000 or over; pre- viously, the requirement was limited to imports valued at over K 4,000. October 30. It was announced that the Gov- ernment would assume control over marketing policy for all minerals. The control would be exercised through an organization to be established as the Metals Marketing Company of Zambia, in which the Government would have a 51 per cent interest. October 30. Statutory Instrument No. 419 was issued to reciprocate the arrangement with the authorities of the Democratic Republic of Congo whereby travelers from Zambia passing through the Congo Pedicle Road are permitted to take with them Zambian currency for subsequent re-export to Zambia. The instrument issued enabled travelers to export Zambian currency and to import the same, subject to the production of the relevant certificate. November 1. A new open general import license was issued by Statutory Instrument No. 404. Individual import licenses were required for the following items previously on open general license: gasoline, aviation turbine fuel, paraffin for illumination, automotive gas oil, goods of East African origin, and goods imported via Dar es Salaam. December 15. The Zambian pound ceased to be legal tender. NOTE. —The following change took place early in 1969: January 2. The right of expatriates employed in Zambia on a contract basis to make remittances abroad was extended to expatriates serving in Zambia on pensionable terms of service or on contract after conversion from pensionable terms; these facilities thus became available also to civil servants. Persons availing themselves of these remittance facilities would not be eligible for any other foreign exchange allowance for such pur- poses as maintenance, education, or travel. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Analytical Appendix ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Principal Features of Member (as at date of 1. A r t ic le V I II s ta tus 2. A r t ic le XIV s ta tus 3. Agreed par value exists 4. Par value applied 5. Un i t a ry e f f e c t ive rate, not par va lue (a) fixed rate (b) f ree ly f lu c tu a t ing rate (c) pegged rate 6. Special ra te (s) for some or all capital transac t ions and /or some or all invisibles 7. Import ra te ( s) d i f f e r ent f rom export ra te ( s) 8. More than one rate for impor ts 9. More than one ra te for exports 10. Res tr ic t ions exist on payments in respect of cu r rent trans- actions 3 11. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of cap i tal trans- actions^ 12. Prescr ip t ion of cu r rency 13. B i la te ral payments arrange- men ts w i th members 14. B i la teral paymen ts arrange- ments w i th nonmembers 15. Import surcharges 16. Advance import deposits 17. Su r render of export proceeds r equ i r ed 18. Part of larger mone tary area 4 19. Pa r t ic ipa tes in regional economic cooperation 5 A f n a h g i s t n a X X X X X X X . . X X X X X - - .2 CD be < X X X X X X X X X - A r n e g i t a n X X X - . . X - X X - X A u s r t a i l a X X X - - . X X - - X X X A u s i r t a 6 X X X - X X X - X - - X B e l g i u m - L e x u m u o b r g X X X X - - . X - X - - X 2'> "offl X X X - - . . - - - X - X B o t s w a n a X X - - o X X - - X X X t-1PQ X X X X X X X X X X - X B u r m a X X X - - X X X - - X - - B u r d n u i X X X - - X X X - - X - X C a m e r n o o 8 X X - - X X X X - X X X C a n a d a X X - - . . - - - - - - C e n r t a l A i r f n a c R e p . 9 X X - - X X X - - X X X d JD 1O X X X X X X X X X X X X X - o TJ 03 JGO X X - - X X X - X X X X JH 12o X X X - - X X X - - X X - X C h i a n , R b u p e i l o c f X X - - X X X X - X X X - - C o l o m b i a X X X X X X X X X X X X X - X 2 '> 03 NIffl ado O X X - - - o X X X X X X X o dotf O>Q 1o O X X - - - X X X X - X C o s t a R i a c X X X X X X - . _ X X X - X 02 s_la O X X X - - - X X X. X X X - For key and footnotes, see page 538. 534 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution— — — — — — — „ — — — — — — — — — — — — — — Countries' Exchange Systems 1 country survey)2 rH 5? 1 n« - X - 0 X X X X - X X X n e 3 m a r k X X X _ X X - X - X - X D o m i n i n a c R b u p e i l c X X X X X - - - X X - - 1o CT| - X X X _ _ X - X X X - X E l S a l o d a v r X X X X X X - - - X - X o3 'a .0 IS M - X X X X X X - - X X - - -oJ13 E - X X X X X X - X - X - X F r 3 1 e c n a X X X X X X - - - X X X •* rH§•§n - X - o X X - - - X X X e h F G a m b i a - X X X X X - - - X X X G e r m y n a , F d e . R p e . o 5 1 f X X X _ - - - - - - X CD Oja03 ^n - X X X X X X X X - X X X <D n - X X X X X X X X X X - X G a u t e m a l a X X X X X X - - X X - X G u i a e n - X - X X X X X - X - X o3 >> n x X X _ X X - - - X X X *3 f rl X X X X X - - - - - - - H u d n o r s a X X X _ _ - - - - - - X g n o 3 K g n o X X X _ X - - - - X - T3 1<no - X X X X X X X X X X X - o3 1 - X X X X X X X X - X X - s e n o d n i a 7 1 - X - _ ^^ / x. X X X X X - X 1 - X X X X ) X X X X X X - X ocI - X X X x X X x X - X - X 1"2 X X X X X _ - - X X X O5 ~o3&02 - X X X X X X x x - - - - >>3 X X x _ X x - - - X - X L o v r y C o a s t 0 2 - X - X X x - - - X X X a J m j a i a c x x X X x X - - - X X X *sa o3r_2 X X X X X x - - X X - - T3 SM O ~ X x X X X X - - - X X X M o3 £0>M - x x X X x X - - - X X X 1 2 3 4 5 „ „ Principal Features of Member (as at date of 1. Ar t ic le V I II status 2. Ar t ic le XIV status 3. Agreed par value exists 4. Par value applied 5. Un i tary e f fec t ive rate, not par value (a) fixed rate (b) freely fluctuating rate (c) pegged rate 6. Special ra te (s) for some or all capital transactions and /or some or all invisibles 7. Import ra te (s) d i f fe rent f rom export ra te (s) 8. More than one rate for imports 9. More than one rate for exports 10. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of cu r rent trans- actions 3 11. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of capital trans- actions 3 12. Prescription of currency 13. Bilateral payments arrange- ments w i th members 14. Bilateral payments arrange- ments w i th nonmembers 15. Import surcharges 16. Advance import deposits 17. Surrender of export proceeds requ ired 18. Part of larger monetary area 4 19. Participates in regional economic cooperation 6 K o r a e 2 2 - X - - _ X X X X - - X X X K u w a t i X - X X _ - _ _ X - - - - - X X ^- X - . - _ _ - - X - X X - - L e b a n o n - x X - . X . . - X X X - - - 0 43 -4-3 £ ~ ~ X X. o X X - - - X X X 23 1 3 - X X X. _ . - - - - - - X o3 >> 42 3 - X X X _ X X X - - X X X - s a g a y R e b u p i l c o3s - X - X X X X - - - X X X 1 03 § - X X X _ X X X - - X X X - 03 •550? o3 § X - X X. . X X - - X X X X co o3 § - X - - X X X X X X - X X X c3 03 2 - - - - X 0 X X - - - X X - M u a t i r n a i a 4 2 - X - - X o X X X - - X X X M u a i t i r u s - X X X _ X X X - - - X X - M x e i o c 5 2 X - X X _ _ _ - X X - - - X M o r o c c o - X X X _ X X X X X - X X - eg PH 0)fc - X X X _ X X X X X X X - - N e t h e l r a d n 6 2 s X - X X _ _ X X - X - - - X N e t h e l r a d n s A n l l i t s e X - X X _ _ _ - - - - X - X N e w Z a e l a d n - X X X _ X X X - - - X X X N i a c r a u g a X - X X _ X _ . - - - X - - X J_ 0)bCg - X - - X - X X X - - - X X X For key and footnotes, see page 538. 536 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution — Countries9 Exchange Systems 1 country survey) 2 .2 o> bfi £ - X X X X X X - - X X X N o r w y a X X X _ X X - X X X P a k i s t a n - X X X X X X X X X X X P a n a m a X X X _ _ - - - = - P a r y a u g a - X X - X X X X - X X <D PH X X - _ X - - X X h P i l i p p i s e n - X X X X . X X - X X o P t r a g u l - X X X X X X X X X X w R a d n a - X X X X X X - - X X 2 2e<5 -3 3 o3 GQ X X X _ _ - - - = - OC 13»gCO - X - X X X X - X X X S i e r r a L e n o e - X X X X X X X - X X X S i o p a g n r e X X X _ X X - X X X X o S m a i l a 9 2 - X X X X X X X X X X 03 o £ «J J5 3 0 CO - X X X X X X - - X X X d '3&02 - X X X X X X X X X - 3 CQ - X X X X X X X X X - u S i r a n m X X X _ X X - X X X S w n e d e 0 3 X X X _ X X - X = X y S i r n a A r b a R p e . - X X - X X X X X X X T n a z n a i a 1 3 - X X X X X X - - X X X T a h l i d n a - X X X _ X - - - X X COI - X - 0 X X - - X X X T i r n i d a d & T o g a b o - X X X _ X X - - X X X T n u i s i a - X X X X X X X X = X X - CO&1 H - X X X X X X X X X X U a d n a g 4 3 - X X X X X X - - X X X U n t i d e A r b a R p e . - X X - X X X X X X X U n t i d e K i o d g n m X X X X X X - - X X X U n t i d e S t a t e 5 3 s X X X _ _ - - - = - U e p p r V o t l a 6 3 - X - 0 _ X - - X X X 1 2 3 4 5 fa}\a,) fM(u) „ Principal Features of Member Countries' Exchange Systems ] (as at date of country survey) 2 538 1. Article VIII status 2. Ar t ic le XIV status 3. Agreed par value exists 4. Par value applied 5. Un i ta ry effec t ive rate, not par value (a) fixed rate (b) freely fluctuating rate (c) pegged rate 6. Special ra te(s) for some or all capital transactions and/or some or all invisibles 7. Import ra te(s) d i f fe rent f rom export ra te(s) 8. More than one rate for imports 9. More than one rate for exports 10. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of current trans- actions 3 11. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of capital trans- actions 3 12. Prescription of currency 13. Bilateral payments arrange- ments w i th members 14. Bilateral payments arrange- ments w i th nonmembers 15. Import surcharges 16. Advance import deposits 17. Surrender of export proceeds required 18. Part of larger monetary area 4 19. Participates in regional economic cooperation 6 1bC 5 - X X - - - - - X - X X X X X X X X X - X .53 0) 3N 0)d 0)> - X X - - - - - X X X - - - - - - - X - X £ ~0> > - X - - - - - X X X X X X X - - X X X - t- 931§bC3 00 > - X X X - - - - - - - X X X X X - - - - 00 00 2'£ Odc§ - X X X - - - - - - - X X X - - - - X X Key and Footnotes X indicates that practice exists; —indicates that practice does not exist; and O indicates that position is undetermined. 1 Practices indicated as existing do not necessarily apply to all transactions. 2 In most cases, December 31, 1968. Where the date is a d ifferent one, this is indicated in a footnote. 3 Payments to member countries. Restrictions in the fo rm of quan- titative limits or undue delay other than restrictions imposed for security reasons. 4 Part of French Franc Area or Sterling Area. 5 Membership in, or association w i th, Afr ican and Malagasy Com- mon Organization, Anglo-Irish Free Trade Area, Arab Common Mar- ket, Association of Southeast Asian Nations, Australia-New Zealand Free Trade Agreement, Caribbean Free Trade Association, Central African Customs and Economic Union, Central American Common Market, Customs Union of West African States, East African Com- munity, European Economic Community, European Free Trade Asso- ciation, Latin American Free Trade Association, Mozambique Conven- tion, Organization of Senegal River States, Regional Cooperation for Development (Iran, Pakistan, and Turkey), Southern African Customs Union, or West African Economic Community. 6 As of January 1, 1969. 7 As of February 3, 1969. 8 As of January 16, 1969. » As of February 3, 1969. 10 As of January 29, 1969. 11 As of February 14, 1969. 12 As of February 21, 1969. 13 As of January 1, 1969. i* As of February 17, 1969. 16 As of February 27, 1969. 16 As of January 1, 1969. 17 As of January 31, 1969. is As of January 1, 1969. i» As of January 20, 1969. 20 As of February 10, 1969. 21 As of January 23, 1969. 22 As of January 1, 1969. 23 As of January 16, 1969. 24 As of February 25, 1969. 25 As of January 1, 1969. 26 As of February 1, 1969. 27 As of February 17, 1969. 28 As of February 28, 1969. 2» As of January 1, 1969. 30 As of January 4, 1969. 31 As of January 23, 1969. 32 As of February 5, 1969. 33 As of January 4, 1969. s* As of January 30, 1969. as As of January 1, 1969. 36 As of February 26, 1969. 37 As of January 1, 1969. 38 As of January 2, 1969. * On April 1, 1969, Japan eliminated its only remaining restriction on payments in respect of current transactions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution— — — 