 E X C H A N GE R E S T R I C T I O NS 1950 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution I N T E R N A T I O N AL M O N E T A RY F U ND First Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions MARCH 1, 1950 INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND WASHINGTON, U. S. A. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TABLE OF CONTENTS PART ONE PART TWO INTRODUCTION COUNTRY SURVEYS 1. Sterling Area 2. Europe 3. Western Hemisphere 4. Middle and Far East APPENDIX Letter of December 19, 1947 to Members re Multiple Currency Practices v Page 1 3 CHAPTER I—SCOPE AND STRUCTURE OF REPORT 1. Scope of Report 2. Structure of Report CHAPTER II —FORMS OF EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 1. Restrictive Systems 2. Quantitative Exchange Restrictions 3. Cost and Composite Exchange Restrictions 4. Application of Restrictions 5. Patterns of Restrictive Systems CHAPTER III —CURRENT SITUATION AND PROBLEMS. . .. 17 1. Spread of Restrictions 2. Exchange Restrictions under the Bretton Woods Agreement 3. Postwar Developments 4. Road to Relaxation of Restrictions 1 2 3 4 7 11 14 17 20 22 30 41 45 63 87 123 139 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letter of Transmittal to Members and Governors of the Fund March 1, 1950 Dear Sir: I have the honor of transmitting to you a copy of the International Monetary Fund's first Report on Exchange Restrictions, which has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article XIV, Sec- tion 4 of the Articles of Agreement. The Fund will issue similar reports annually as long as restrictions on payments and transfers for current international transactions are still in force under the provisions of Article XIV, Section 2 of the Articles of Agreement. The obligation of the Fund to report on the exchange restrictions applied under this provision is, as you know, part of the Fund's task of assisting in the establishment of a multilateral system of payments in respect of cur- rent transactions between members and in the elimination of foreign exchange restrictions which hamper the growth of world trade. The progress to date toward these objectives of the Fund has not been as conspicuous as I would like to report. We recognize the many difficulties which have caused the maintenance and spread of restric- tions in international economic relations during the period of post- war transition, but if trends of improvement in the underlying world conditions continue, members should find the task of removing ex- change restrictions less difficult in the future. I can pledge that in this task the Fund will continue to assist them in every way possible. It is my sincere hope that you may find this first Report on Ex- change Restrictions of interest and benefit. Sincerely yours, /B/ GUTT Chairman of the Executive Board and Managing Director VII ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution i x a va ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAPTER ONE Scope and Structure of Report 1. Scope of Report The present Report, which is the International Monetary Fund's first annual Report on Exchange Restrictions, is .presented in accord- ance with Article XIV, Section 4 of the Articles of Agreement, which provides: "Not later than three years af ter the date on which the Fund begins operations and in each year thereafter, the Fund shall report on the restrictions still in force under Section 2 of this Article " Many members of the Fund have availed themselves of the transi- tional arrangements under Article XIV, Section 2 of the Articles of Agreement, which permit considerable freedom in the application of exchange restrictions. This Report deals primarily with these restric- tions, but since the effects of the transitional arrangements and of other restrictions are not distinguishable in practice, and to complete the presentation, it also covers restrictions which are applied in accord- ance with Article VIII of the Articles of Agreement. The Fund's interest is focused on exchange restrictions, including multiple currency practices, but it is extremely difficult to discuss them without referring to trade restrictions with which they are closely linked in many restrictive systems. Accordingly, this Report deals also with trade restrictions insofar as they are closely integrated with ex- change restrictions. As import duties do not form an integral part of systems of exchange restrictions, they have not been covered, even though their economic effects are similar to those of certain multiple currency practices. There are obvious technical difficulties in the way of measuring statistically the restrictive effects of any particular exchange system on the demand for foreign exchange for current transactions. Instead of such measurement, this Report deals with the forms and the applica- tion of restrictions. Such an account, combined with a study of the development of exchange policies and practices in each country, should permit an appraisal in subsequent Reports of significant variations in the exchange restrictions of members. With this objective in mind, the present Report examines some of the external and internal factors which have a significant bearing on the balance of payments difficulties currently experienced by most member countries, and presents, in connection with that analysis, a few general considerations on which proposals for the attainment of a sound external financial position can be based. 1 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 2_ EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT 2. Structure of Report The present Report is in two parts. Part I, consisting of three chap- ters, is a general account of the forms of restrictions, their rise and the conditions for their removal. Part II presents a brief country-by- country description of the exchange restrictions maintained by member countries. Restrictions are classified in Chapter 2 of Part I ("Forms of Ex- change Restrictions") in three groups, quantitative, cost and composite restrictions, according to the nature of the processes which determine how much of the demand for foreign transactions is to be satisfied and how much is to be eliminated. This chapter indicates how quantitative, cost and composite exchange restrictions can be identified on the basis of verifiable characteristics. Various forms of quantitative, cost and composite exchange restrictions are discussed in this chapter, and dif- ferences in the application of the various forms are examined. Finally, the chapter describes a few patterns of restrictions which are typical of various parts of the world. Chapter 3 of Part I ("Current Situation and Problems") describes briefly, without attempting any detailed historical survey, the spread of restrictions in international economic relations during the last few decades, with emphasis on the influence in widening their scope and increasing their severity exercised by policy objectives, such as fiscal considerations, protectionism, redress of serious balance of payments disequilibria, and economic planning in its various forms. This chapter reviews the role of exchange restrictions under the Articles of Agree- ment and explains, in terms of prevailing economic conditions, why only very few members have so far assumed the obligations of con- vertibility. It appraises the major forces of external and of internal origin, which have had a significant bearing on the serious balance of payments disequilibria faced by most countries of the world. On the basis of this analysis and in the light of the Fund's experience, this chapter presents a few general considerations which should guide the efforts of member countries to overcome their foreign exchange prob- lems, with the ultimate objective of attaining full convertibility of their currencies. Part II of the Report surveys the existing exchange restrictions of the member countries which have availed themselves of the transi- tional arrangements under Article XIV, Section 2 of the Articles of Agreement. In some cases the available information would have per- mitted more detailed descriptions, but it was deemed more in keeping with the purposes of this Report to give an over-all survey of the existing exchange systems by focusing on their salient features rather than by submerging the significant elements in a mass of detail. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAPTER TWO Forms of Exchange Restrictions 1. Restrictive Systems A variety of purposes may be pursued by restrictions, but most systems of exchange restrictions are designed to husband foreign ex- change resources and to utilize them in accordance with some plan or policy. A comprehensive system of exchange restrictions takes entirely or partly the place of an ordinary market for foreign exchange. In- stead of permitting exchange to be bought and sold freely, exchange receipts are channeled into a central pool and distributed to users according to various criteria. Under most systems of exchange restrictions, recipients of foreign exchange are required to sell their exchange receipts to the authorities in return for local currency at specified rates of exchange. Under other systems, the foreign exchange must be sold in a partial free market. In either system, however, a certain part of the total exchange receipts or the proceeds from certain transactions is sometimes left partially or wholly at the free disposal of the exchange earners. To enforce the surrender of exchange or its mandatory sale in a partial free market, controls are established over the transactions producing foreign ex- change, particularly over exports and certain services. Various control documents, such as declarations or licenses are, therefore, required to insure the proper disposition of exchange accruing from these transac- tions. Export controls are commonly employed to prevent a flight of capital through exports. Together with the prescription of procedures for receiving payments in foreign currencies, they are also often used to insure receipts in certain specified currencies. They can also be exercised for trade purposes as an instrument of international bar- gaining, or as a means of limiting exports of scarce commodities or of directing exports to certain destinations. Foreign exchange is distributed to the users through a number of devices which assume the form of restrictions on payments or on trans- actions giving rise to payments. These are some of the more significant verifiable features of most exchange control systems, but the economic effects of exchange restric- tions usually do not depend as much on the mechanics of the system as on its application with the objective of reducing the demand for inter- national transactions. For the purpose of this Report, exchange restrictions have been classified into three ma jor types, quantitative, cost and composite 3 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 4 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT restrictions. This classification is based on differences in the processes by which the various types of restrictions determine how much of the demand for international transactions is to be satisfied and how much of this demand is to be eliminated. Under pure quantitative restric- tions this is determined in quantitative terms through discretionary action by the authorities. Under pure cost restrictions the determining factor is the cost of foreign exchange transactions. Under composite restrictions both discretionary action and the cost of foreign exchange transactions play a part in determining how much of the total demand is to be satisfied and how much is to be eliminated. This classification can be applied to trade as well as to exchange restrictions, and it may be illustrated by a few selected practices in each of these broad groups. Examples of pure quantitative restric- tions are the administrative allocation of foreign exchange, import licensing, tie-in import arrangements, and outright prohibitions. Ex- amples of pure cost restrictions are import duties, excise taxes levied primarily or entirely on goods and services of foreign origin, and mul- tiple currency practices not complemented with quantitative restric- tions, such as partial free markets for foreign exchange yielding selling rates which differ from parity by more than one per cent. Examples of composite exchange restrictions are multiple currency practices com- plemented with quantitative restrictions, such as an exchange tax on transactions subject to administrative approval, a partial free market for foreign exchange in which transactions are subject to license, and a market for exchange certificates payments through which require a license. Tariff quotas and auctioning of import licenses are illustra- tions of composite trade restrictions. 2. Quantitative Exchange Restrictions Quantitative exchange restrictions limit foreign payments in quanti- tative terms through licensing of prohibition by the authorities. They d iffer from cost restrictions in the extent to which they permit of a division of the over-all demand for foreign exchange and in the manner of allocating exchange to these partial demands. Under quantitative exchange restrictions, the payments which may be effected are arbi- trarily determined in terms of transactions and foreign currencies and in many cases in terms of individual applicants. Under cost restric- tions, by contrast, the only arbitrary division of the over-all demand for foreign exchange is the segregation of international payments by trans- actions, currencies or means of payment into a few categories to which different effective selling rates of exchange are applied. Both types of restrictions affect in varying degrees particular international payments or foreign currencies, but the extent of deliberate selection is thus al- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FORMS OF EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 5 most unlimited under quantitative exchange restrictions, while it is confined under cost restrictions to the application of different effective selling rates of exchange to specified international transactions; loreign currencies or means of international payment. In applying quantitative exchange restrictions, broad categories of international transactions, such as essential and luxury imports, are most frequently fur ther subdivided, for example, into particular raw materials, foodstuffs, machinery and equipment, automobiles, cosmet- ics, and radios, and each of these specified imports is treated separately for purposes of exchange allocation. The division of the over-all demand for foreign exchange into many sectors of partial demands is thus the general characteristic of every system of quantitative exchange restrictions. For an understanding of the several techniques in this category of exchange restrictions it is useful to examine the different methods of allocating exchange to the various applicants within each sector. One of the more frequently used methods is the individual alloca- tion of exchange, whereby requests for allocation of exchange are examined individually and granted in the form of a license, on the basis of the merit of each transaction. This gives the system a con- siderable degree of elasticity, but it also involves a rather pronounced discretionary element. Consequently, there is often a tendency to limit the discretionary action of the authorities by relating the allocation of exchange to objective criteria, such as the past imports of firms or their capital, which in effect results in the establishment of quotas for individual firms. Another method of allocating foreign exchange is that of determin- ing the aggregate amount of exchange which will be available during a certain period, and of distributing it on a non-selective basis, such as the first-come, first-served principle, up to the limits of established over-all quotas. A system of this kind minimizes the exercise of dis- cretionary action, but by its nature contains elements of rigidity, which may outweigh its advantages. The waiting list technique is a variant of exchange quotas. It affects the demand for specified transactions by postponing rather than by rejecting some of the applications for allocation of exchange. The effects over a period of time, however, are usually similar to those of any other quantitative restriction. Prohibitions are used to bar undesirable transactions completely. Such restrictions may be interpreted as zero quotas. However, the same restrictive effects may be obtained by applying prohibitive selling rates of exchange to certain payments or, in a less conspicuous manner, by not issuing licenses for particular transactions, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 6_ EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT Occasionally restrictive systems make use of tie-in import arrange- ments, whereby exchange is made available for specified imports only if domestic products of a similar or complementary nature are con- currently bought in specified proportions. Such tie-in arrangements are a variant of protective prohibitions, although they have somewhat different effects. The elimination by outright prohibition of all imports of a particular type is an indirect protection for the domestic produc- tion of the same goods. The protection by tie-in import requirements is more direct but less drastic in that the purchase of domestic products is linked to the import of similar or allied items. Tie-in arrangements are usually applied to products which, because of inferior quality, price considerations, or for other reasons, are not in demand when im- ports of the same goods are available. While the preceding discussion relates to exchange restrictions, ref- erence must be made again to the complementary function of exchange and trade restrictions. This relation is particularly close in the matter of licensing, because the two types of license can in many cases be used interchangeably to obtain the desired degree of restrictiveness. Exchange licensing has, of course, a broader scope than import licens- ing, since it can be used also to restrict payments for non-trade trans- actions. The existence of a licensing system does not necessarily mean that restrictions are actually in effect. Licensing may, for example, be used merely to gather statistics or to exercise controls for other supervisory purposes. The Articles of Agreement permit member countries to apply controls to their international transactions in order to prevent a flight of capital, provided such controls do not restrict or unduly delay payments for current transactions. In order to ascertain whether a licensing system is or is not restrictive, it is necessary to examine in detail the licensing policies of the exchange or trade authorities and their effects in reducing the demand for foreign transactions. Quantitative restrictions have been discussed in terms of devices affec t ing certain international transactions, but like other restrictions, they may also be applied to restrict payments in certain foreign cur- rencies. When used in this manner, it may be even more difficult to determine the intensity of their restrictiveness. The authorities may refuse to grant certain foreign currencies or may prescribe currencies in which they will permit international pay- ments. Such refusals or prescriptions of currencies may have restric- tive effects on international transactions similar to those of prohibi- tions, of other quantitative restrictions, or even of cost restrictions. If available foreign currencies are inconvertible, their usefulness will mostly depend on the trade practices and exchange regulations of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FORMS OF EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 7 foreign exporting country; for example, some exports may traditionally or by regulation be sold only for certain hard currencies. Moreover, imports, if paid for with inconvertible currencies, may be available only at higher costs because of d ifferen t ial pricing in the exporting country or because the prescription of currencies compels importers to buy in more expensive substitute markets. 3. Cost and Composite Exchange Restrictions Cost restrictions reduce the demand for foreign exchange for speci- fied international transactions by raising their cost. A restriction is composite when the demand for foreign exchange is reduced by the deterrent of increased costs in conjunction with discretionary action. In practice, under a system of cost restrictions international trans- actions are divided into a few broad categories, depending on the num- ber of effective selling rates in force. Sometimes the division is merely one into "visible" and "invisible" transactions, but more often the visible transactions are fu r ther divided into m a jor categories of im- ports usually on the basis of their essentiality to the domestic economy. In most cases, however, the number of categories of transactions is small. The only exceptions are systems with a variety of formal or imputed exchange rates, established on a commodity-to-commodity basis. Such systems generally presuppose a large measure of govern- mental control over the economy and permit detailed discretionary action, which usually takes them out of the group of pure cost restric- tions. Private barter or compensation transactions involve arrange- ments of a similar nature, but with a narrower scope. Import duties and excise taxes imposed on imported goods are cost restrictions on trade transactions. To the extent that they reduce the demand for foreign transactions, multiple currency practices are cost restrictions on exchange transactions. However, multiple currency practices may be used for purposes other than reducing the demand for foreign transactions. Indeed, preferen t ial buying and selling rates of exchange are used to subsidize certain international transactions. It is to be noted, however, that many exchange systems with preferential selling or buy ing rates of exchange also include penalty selling or buy- ing rates. Official penalty selling rates of exchange raise the cost of transac- tions sub ject to them and consequently restrict the demand for foreign exchange. However, official penalty selling rates are often not set at levels high enough to attain through the exchange rate alone an equili- brium between the demand for and the supply of foreign exchange in the partial sector to which the penalty rates apply. In such cases it is usually found necessary to impose also quantitative restrictions on ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 8 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT the transactions subject to the penalty selling rates, in order to reduce the demand for foreign currency to the extent desired. The penalty sell- ing rate in these instances is the cost component of a composite restriction. Exchange taxes are closely akin to fixed penalty selling rates. The revenue from exchange taxes, however, accrues normally to the fiscal authorities, while the proceeds from other fixed penalty selling rates may also accrue to the central bank or stabilization fund. When fixed penalty selling rates do not reduce the demand for foreign exchange to the desired level, an additional restriction of de- mand may be obtained by also imposing exchange taxes. The same effect can, of course, be accomplished by raising the penalty selling rates correspondingly. Fluctuating exchange rates adjust the demand for foreign exchange to the supply available in the partial market, thereby providing auto- matically the requisite degree of restrictiveness. The several forms of fluctuating exchange rates are all variants of a partial free market for foreign exchange. The most common variants are usually referred to as "free," exchange certificate, auction, and compensation markets. The term "free exchange markets" as commonly used is somewhat misleading. Even though the rate of exchange is determined by the interplay of demand and supply, only certain transactions may be effected through such markets. The demand for and supply of ex- change in these partial markets can be altered effectively by expanding or contracting -the volume of transactions which are channeled through them. Foreign exchange is offered for sale in such free markets by desig- nated categories of exchange earners. Under prevailing conditions, the demand for foreign exchange for designated transactions, which has been relegated to partial free markets, is such that the resulting fluctuating exchange rates normally penalize buyers of exchange more than the officially fixed selling rates established within the same sys- tem. Partial free markets are most commonly used for payments for certain or all invisibles and for specified non-essential or luxury im- ports. Being unfavorab le to the buyers, free rates are favorable to sellers of exchange, and thus tend to favor those transactions whose exchange proceeds are admitted to the partial free markets. Instead of applying to designated international transactions, partial free markets may also be established for specified means of interna- tional payment as, for instance, for foreign banknotes. Partial free markets of this type constitute restrictions only because buyers of foreign exchange for specified transactions cannot effect them by other means. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FORMS OF EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 9 Each of several foreign currencies may be allowed to find its own level in partial free exchange markets. If there are marked variations in the degree of convertibility of the currencies involved, cross rates may develop which d i f fer f rom the official parities in accordance with the demand for the respective currencies. Disparate cross rates favor payments in softer currencies over payments in harder currencies. The demand is restricted either for only the harder currencies traded in the partial free markets or for all currencies, depending on whether the softer currencies are or are not quoted at rates higher than their basic selling rates. In either case, however, and other things being equal, the demand for the harder currencies is more severely restricted than that for the softer currencies. Freely fluctuating exchange certificate markets are similar to partial free markets. They d iffer primarily in that in ordinary free markets the international means of payment proper are traded, whereas in exchange certificate markets contingent rights to foreign exchange are negotiated. Consequently, the exchange certificate rate, which is pre- dominantly determined by the free interplay of market forces, may also be affected to some degree by administrative elements, such as the extent of negotiability of the exchange certificates or the period of their validity. If there is both an exchange certificate market and a free exchange market, the former is likely to apply to merchandise imports, while the free market will normally apply to non-trade transactions. The rates in the two markets may diverge somewhat —the free rate will be at a premium if the demand for foreign exchange for capital export and hoarding is substantial —but, unless the element of administrative ac- tion in the. certificate market is significant, the spread between the two rates tends to be small in comparison with the spread between parity and either of the two fluctuating rates. Auction markets are another variant of the partial free market mechanism. They d i f fer f rom other fluctuating exchange markets if, as has been a common practice, the exchange is wholly or in part sup- plied by the monetary authorities and sold to the highest bidders. To that extent, the authorities are the recipients of the profits from the exchange transactions, instead of, as in the other cases, specified ex- porters and other foreign exchange earners. Since the authorities can arbitrarily limit the supply of foreign exchange to an auction market, the market rates are more exposed to administrative action than are the free market rates previously described, even though intervention by the authorities in such f ree markets is not uncommon either. Private compensations are still another variant of the partial free market for foreign exchange. Under such arrangements specified ex- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 10 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT porters or other recipients of foreign exchange are permitted to sell all or part of their exchange proceeds to specified importers or other buy- ers of exchange. There is no limit to the number of compensation markets within any particular exchange system. If every compensation seller may sell to any compensation buyer, a partial free market with a single rate of exchange will tend to develop. If, however, the export- ers of, say, linseed oil can sell their foreign exchange only to importers of perfumes, while the exporters of wine can sell their exchange only to importers of automobiles, then several compensation rates will tend to develop. The greater the number of compensation rates within the same exchange system, the more important becomes the element of administrative decision in the pairing of sets of compensation buyers and sellers. An exchange tax applied to transactions subject to fluctuating rates may have a secondary restrictive effect. The restrictive effects of the tax on the demand for foreign exchange over and above those of the fluctuating rate of exchange would not be significant, because in the absence of the tax, and assuming that the supply of foreign exchange in the partial f ree market remains constant, the free rate would settle at or near the combined rate including tax. However, the decline in the earnings of sellers of exchange resulting from the imposition of the tax may reduce the supply of foreign exchange in the free market, and the higher rate including tax which may thus result might fur ther re- duce the demand in that market to the level of the shrunken supply of foreign exchange. Taxes applied to transactions in the partial free market are usually imposed as revenue devices or in order to reduce inflationary pressure by absorbing part of the profits accruing to the sellers of exchange. Composite restrictions are occasionally encountered which combine fluctuating free market rates and quantitative restrictions. For in- stance, motor cars may, subject to prior license, be imported if pay- ment is effected through a partial free market. If an import commod- ity, previously subject only to quantitative restrictions, is shifted to a partial free market, the free rate will tend to rise. Such a sh ift will tend to increase the earnings of sellers in the free market and to re- strict other payments through that market. An incidental considera- tion may be the desire to relieve the pressure on the administration. If, however, an import commodity, exchange for which already had to be purchased in a partial free market, is in addition subjected to quan- titative restrictions, the free rate will tend to decline, and will tend to reduce the earnings of sellers in the free market and to relax the re- striction on other payments through that market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FORMS OF EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 11 4. Application of Restrictions Nearly every restrictive system contains more than one form of restriction. The variety of restrictions is largely a matter of adminis- trative convenience and is frequently dictated by considerations of en- forceability, but some forms of restrictions also necessitate the adop- tion of complementary practices. The forms of restrictions which complement one another depend on the characteristics of the restricted payments and on the general policy objectives for which restrictions are being applied. Thus, a system comprising prohibitions and ex- change licensing would be more effective when price changes would have little e f fect on the demand for the permissible transactions, which are to be restricted. When, however, the demand for the per- missible transactions, which are to be restricted, is responsive to price changes, similar effects are usually achieved with less administrative difficulty if cost restrictions are used to reduce the demand for the permissible transactions. Each restriction sets essentially identical adjustment processes in motion. Consequently, the initial choice of an appropriate form of restriction is commonly dictated by other considerations which make one practice preferable to another in a given concrete situation. An important consideration, in this connection, is the degree of selectivity desired in applying restrictions. Quantitative exchange restrictions, especially of the individual-allocation type, make pos- sible a detailed control of the restricted international transactions. Since they generally permit much closer and more extensive super- vision of individual transactions, they tend to be selective, not only as to volume or value, but also as to the destination of the payment. Cost restrictions do not offer the same possibilities of deliberate de- termination. They reduce to the desired level only the aggregate demand for the transactions subject to them and, therefore, the effects on each individual transaction or category of transactions to which any given cost restriction applies is not generally predictable. If, for example, an import commodity is shifted to a partial free market, which already provides exchange for several other imports, the further addition to the demand for foreign exchange in the partial free market tends to increase the free rate. But this increase in the free rate may affect the newly-shifted import very little, whereas the im- ports previously in the partial free market may be seriously restricted by the rise in the free rate which the commodity shift had caused. Quantitative exchange restrictions are generally preferred to cost restrictions from the point of view of the accuracy with which they can keep within the desired limits total exchange payments as well as ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 12 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT the payments in each particular foreign currency and for each par- ticular category of transactions. The flexibility of the restrictive system may be a consideration of some importance wherever there is a possibility that the actual supply of exchange may deviate appreciably from the estimated availability. However, differences of this kind are important mainly as between particular forms of restrictions. Thus, the assignment of quotas is a rather inflexible form of quantitative exchange restriction, but a sys- tem of individual allocations is suitable for making necessary adjust- ments in accordance with short-run changes in the supply of or demand for foreign exchange. A partial free market is a form of cost restriction which responds automatically through the rate mechanism to changes in the supply of exchange, while fixed penalty selling rates of exchange are quite inflexible in this respect. However, even fixed rates can be changed from time to time and thereby be given some measure of flexibility and more accuracy in limiting the payments to which they apply. The flexibility of fixed rates depends, therefore, on the ease of changing them by administrative action. Not all forms of restrictions lend themselves equally well to dis- crimination on the basis of countries or foreign currencies. A scrutiny of the prevailing restrictions indicates that almost all of them contain some element of discrimination between countries or currency areas. This points to the inherent difficulty of devising non-discriminatory restrictions. In many cases discrimination is only incidental. How- ever, in more recent times, there has been a significant spread of deliberate discrimination, particularly as between currencies with d i f- ferent degrees of convertibility. Discrimination is commonly prac- tised through quantitative trade restrictions, which are outside the scope of this Report. However, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 (g) of Article XIV of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, the CONTRACTING PARTIES are studying the dis- crimination practised by contracting parties in their administration of import restrictions which they are applying for balance of pay- ments reasons. Individual allocation of exchange is probably the form of exchange restriction which lends itself most effectively to discriminatory appli- cation. As allocations are made on a discretionary basis, it is very difficult at any given time to prove that there is discrimination between various currencies. However, consistent discrimination over any ex- tended period of time cannot be concealed even if practised through this device. Discrimination through cost restrictions or through pre- established quotas is usually quite obvious. The most common form of discriminatory cost restriction is disparate cross rates, that is to say, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FORMS OF EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 13 the co-existence of rates of exchange for various foreign currencies which d i f fer f rom the cross rates corresponding to their agreed par values. However, discriminatory cost restrictions may also take other forms. The allocation of foreign exchange at the official selling rate to specified transactions in relatively soft currencies, while similar trans- actions in harder currencies are relegated to a partial free market, in which the exchange rate is higher than the official selling rate, is another illustration of a discriminatory currency arrangement. Dis- crimination in systems containing both quantitative and cost restric- tions is more usually practised through exchange allocation than through the exchange rate mechanism. General administrative considerations usually determine to a sig- n if icant extent the selection of an appropriate restrictive practice. Quantitative exchange restrictions depend solely on administrative action and consequently require an elaborate and reliable administra- tive machinery. They tend to be susceptible to various undesirable pressures. Cost restrictions are relatively simple to administer and are less susceptible to outside influences. Composite restrictions occupy an intermediate position in this respect between quantitative and cost restrictions. The redistribution of money incomes resulting from restrictions is another important consideration in the choice of an appropriate form of exchange restriction. Restrictions almost invariably cause some redistribution of money incomes. This redistribution may favor the fiscal authorities, as in the case of import duties, excise taxes on im- ports, exchange surcharges, or official penalty selling rates of exchange. Alternatively, it may favor exporters or other designated sellers of foreign exchange in partial free markets or exchange certificate markets. The restrictions mentioned in these illustrations have cost elements associated with them, but quantitative exchange restrictions also give rise to a redistribution of money incomes. The first impact of newly introduced quantitative restrictions is an increase in the domes- tic prices of goods and services the importation of wh ich has been re- stricted. W indfa ll profits accrue, therefore, to the sellers of the restricted imports, unless such prof i ts are diverted to the fiscal authorities by direct or indirect taxation. Hence, if the fiscal authorities are not the beneficiaries, the benefits of redistribution will go mainly to exporters or other sellers of fore ign exchange when restrictions are of the cost type; to importers, when they are quantitative. Taxation of w indfa ll profits resulting from restrictions is one of the many practical problems which arise in a system of restrictions. With the exception of partial free exchange markets and their variants, cost and composite restrictions contain inherent tax elements which tend ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 14 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT to limit the w indfa ll profits. Under quantitative restrictions, a separate tax has to be used if the profits of importers are to be reduced, though w ind fa ll profits can also be eliminated by domestic price controls. In addition to such considerations, the applicability of the various forms of restrictions must be examined in the light of the general institutional environment. The choice of any exchange restriction ultimately depends upon the quality of the public administration, the fiscal and credit systems, the channels and methods of conducting trade, legal frameworks and international commitments, traditions and habits, and many other factors. 5. Patterns of Restrictive Systems The institutional factors and policy considerations which are rele- vant in determining the form of exchange restrictions have often been similar for many countries within a single broad geographic region. Consequently, patterns of restrictive systems have developed which are commonly regarded as typical of Continental Europe, the Sterling Area, or Latin America. The typical regional pattern of exchange restrictions is, of course, a somewhat abstract concept, and the actual restrictive systems of particular countries within the region may d i f fer considerably f rom one another and f rom the over-all regional pattern. The countries of Continental Europe usually apply only quantita- tive restrictions, even though multiple exchange rates have been in- stituted from time to time. The typical European restrictive system involves an official foreign exchange pool to which all or most foreign exchange receipts must be surrendered, and from which the exchange is distributed through a system of individual allocations or quotas to those sectors of demand which are to be satisfied. Exports are f re- quently subject to license to insure the surrender of the exchange pro- ceeds and in some cases also to direct exports to the appropriate markets or to compel payment in prescribed currencies. Payments for imports are usually subject to import licenses on the basis of which exchange is automatically allocated, but in some instances special exchange permits are also required. Exchange for invisible transactions is normally allocated by exchange license. Elaborate controls over capital movements have usually very restrictive and often prohibitive effects. In many European countries, the rigidity of the individual licensing procedure is often relaxed through the use of "general licenses," "declarations" or "free lists," which freely permit within specified limits designated foreign payments, as for instance, for some imports, for foreign travel or for fam i ly remittances abroad. Efforts to minimize evasion and to prevent defau lt of foreign obli- gations have commonly led to the extension of controls to all trans- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FORMS OF EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 15 actions which might give rise to foreign obligations or claims by resi- dents. Import and export licensing are, of course, the most important cases in point. But many other claims and obligations of residents f rom and to non-residents are also usually subject to approval by the exchange authorities, including sometimes mere changes in the status of assets of residents abroad and of assets of non-residents within the exchange control territory. Not only are domestically-held foreign securities, for example, ordinarily required to be registered or de- posited to supervised accounts, but foreign-held domestic securities are also sometimes subject to regulations. For the same reasons, certain paymen ts are o f ten required to be e f fec ted through designated accounts. The systems applied in the United Kingdom and other countries of the Sterling Area are variants of the European pattern. With respect to the surrender and allocation of foreign exchange, they include the significant features of the restrictive systems of Continental Europe. However, because of characteristics peculiar to the Sterling Area, such as the common pool of exchange reserves and the use of London as a f inanc ial clearing center, add i t ional procedures have been established for a general licensing system which freely permits on a broad scale specified payments through designated controlled accounts among countries of the Sterling Area and between the Sterling Area as a whole and other countries. Systems which involve cost and composite restrictions can be found mainly in Latin America. However, systems with pure cost restric- tions exclusively exist only in countries which restrict payments to a very minor extent. The closest approximation to a system based pre- dominantly on cost restrictions is encountered in Ecuador, where mul- tiple fixed penalty selling rates of exchange and a partial fluctuating free market with exchange taxes are the ma jor features of the restric- tive mechanism. Most Latin American countries which apply restric- tions use the composite type. No restrictive system in Latin America employs quantitative restrictions alone, but the extent of reliance on them varies from country to country. The Brazilian system, for ex- ample, relies predominantly on quantitative restrictions, but includes also an incidental exchange tax. Latin American regulations usually require that all or part of the foreign exchange proceeds be surrendered to the authorities. Exchange is, in turn, allocated from this pool to authorized buyers, in many cases at fixed penalty selling rates. The revenue accru ing to the authorities from exchange sales at penalty selling rates is sometimes used to subsidize specified exports and im- ports. In many cases the profits from official exchange transactions represent an important source of fiscal revenue. Certain invisible re- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 16 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT ceipts and exports are frequently granted additional rate subsidies, and certain payments are further restricted through a partial free exchange market with a fluctuating rate which normally is considerably above the official rates. In some instances, capital exports are possible through such a partial free market. Sometimes the recipients of for- eign exchange must surrender to the authorities part of their foreign exchange proceeds, but may sell the remainder at a higher official buy- ing rate or in a partial free market. Since the part of the exchange pro- ceeds which must be sold at the basic buying rate and that part which may be sold at a preferential rate may be determined on a commodity- to-commodity basis, a range of effective buying rates may result. Such systems are commonly referred to as "mixing systems." No regional pattern can be established for the restrictive systems in the Middle and Far East. In Egypt, for instance, the system follows closely the pattern of the Sterling Area, while the restrictions recently imposed in Ethiopia and the Philippine Republic resemble the systems characteristic of Europe. On the other hand, the restrictive systems of Lebanon, Syria and Thailand include partial free markets which are characteristic of the Latin American pattern. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAPTER THREE Current Situation and Problems 1. Spread of Restrictions The history of the rise and spread of restrictions of the type now prevailing revolves around three landmarks of this century —the First World War, the World Depression and the Second World War. The decades preceding the First World War are commonly referred to as the liberal era in international economic relations. Even during those years restrictions were present in some measure, but they differed profound ly from present practices. They did not undermine the unity of the world economy, because they did not in terfere seriously with the adjustments of domestic prices and costs. The principal purposes of the restrictions of that era were fiscal or moderately protectionist. Their most common forms were duties. Import duties and, for that matter, other taxes on international trans- actions, which are designed to provide fiscal revenue, are by their very purpose limited in scope. Since the tax tends to reduce the taxable base, there is a point beyond which an increase in rates reduces ag- gregate proceeds. This inherent limitation and the necessity for devel- oping broader sources of revenue to meet the rapidly expanding financial requirements of governments have tended to diminish reliance on import duties and similar taxes on international transactions as the most important single source of fiscal revenue. The extent of protection afforded domestic production varied con- siderably in time and from country to country. Generally speaking, however, the protection of those years affected only particular sectors of production and never attained the intensity of the interwar period. The First World War had a far-reaching influence on the develop- ment of restrictions. During the war controls over foreign trade were considerably extended and comprehensive systems of restrictions made their first appearance. Some of these restrictions, particularly trade restrictions, were retained in some parts of the world to protect cur- rencies and sectors of national production, and they survived in some countries, despite efforts to eliminate them, until the advent of the Great Depression made their removal impracticable. The First World War also generated forces which subsequently stimulated the more extensive use of restrictions. Like every great war, it accelerated the political, economic and social trends which had begun to show them- selves in the preceding period. As the first conflict of truly global scope, it also had important effects of its own on the political and economic 17 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 18 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT environment and gave rise to new political and economic outlooks. These changes tended to intensify protectionist tendencies and au- tarkic ambitions. The new conditions made it also increasingly diffi- cult to submit to the consequences of deflationary correctives. On the other hand, the violent inflations, which beset some countries after the war, tended to make them very unwilling to adjust their rates of ex- change downward, as currency devaluation was popularly associated with loss of purchasing power resulting from internal inflation. When the Great Depression came, erratic capital transfers on an unprecedented scale and drastic declines in export volumes and prices made substantial balance of payments adjustments necessary. At the outset efforts had been made to undertake adjustments through defla- tionary processes. However, before long, it proved impracticable to carry the deflation to the extent necessary in view of the already un- manageable contraction which was the general experience at that time. As an alternative to deflation, many countries sought relief by one or more devaluations of their currencies. These were, however, usually controlled changes of the exchange rate rather than currency ad jus t- ments of the freely fluctuating type. Many countries pegged their currencies to those of the leading international creditors, with central banks or special exchange stabilization funds intervening to stabilize the exchange rates. Such official operations in the exchange market re- quired substantial reserves of gold and foreign exchange. The coun- tries without sufficient reserves were, therefore, almost from the be- ginning of the depression compelled to rely mainly on restrictions in their international economic relations. Some inflation-sensitive coun- tries, such as Germany, refused to devalue and resorted almost im- mediately to exchange restrictions. The worldwide depression of 1929-33 was indeed the most con- spicuous milestone in the development of restrictions. Many of the countries most immediately affected by capital flight, and subsequently by sharp declines in export volumes and prices, instituted exchange and trade restrictions. Restrictive practices, which had been pre- viously applied in rudimentary form during the First World War, were rapidly developed and made more effective. These restrictions were in the beginning applied as stop-gap measures to meet extraordinary balance of payments deficits. The contraction of economic activity all over the world created such stag- gering problems that neither ordinary balance of payments correctives nor the more traditional forms of restrictions promised effective relief. The newly introduced restrictions were thus originally devised to sup- plement or mitigate the effects of ordinary balance of payments cor- rectives, but the unprecedented conditions then prevailing relegated ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CURRENT SITUATION AND PROBLEMS 19 the traditional remedies more and more to a secondary place. In fact, in many parts of the world restrictions became during the decade pre- ceding the Second World War a ma jor method of dealing with balance of payments deficits. They were widely used with the intention of avoiding or delaying the internal adjustments which could have brought the international accounts of the deficit countries into equili- brium, or with the desire of concealing f rom the public the magnitude of the adjustments which were required, as the leading importing nations suspended foreign purchases in the vain hope of curbing their domestic unemployment. The result was the almost complete insulation of some national economies, particularly as countries soon discovered that exchange and trade restrictions were effective only when applied to the entire range of their international transactions. Whereas previous restrictions had been devised to provide fiscal revenue or to afford protection to limited sectors of the domestic economy, the restrictions applied in the Thirties were almost from the beginning intended to reduce the international payments of the deficit countries to levels consistent with their declin- ing exchange receipts. Whereas earlier restrictions were generally of minor scope and took forms which were not overly destructive of the unity of world international economic relations, the characteristic of the new restrictions was that their application necessarily disrupted the traditional international mechanisms. It was inevitable that countries applying restrictions in their inter- national economic relations should in due course discover that these restrictions permitted them to pursue policies which would not other- wise have been feasible. Hence, when the original need for protecting balances of payments receded, they were reluctant to abandon these convenient devices, particularly in view of the worldwide political and economic disturbances which preceded the outbreak of the Second World War. Some countries maintained, f or a variety of reasons, over- valued rates of exchange which necessitated the application of restric- tions in their international economic relations. Others discovered that their internal expansion policies, which were designed to cure unemployment, required continued restriction of their international transactions. A few countries with undeveloped fiscal systems began to apply mu l t ip le rates of exchange for fiscal purposes. Many countries found that their restrictions gave them an international bargaining counter which was particularly effective under the conditions of in- creasing bilateralism of world trade and payments, which itself was a direct result of the spread of restrictions. Countries initially tended to use their international bargaining position to dispose of unsold exportable surpluses. They also sought later to attain improved terms of trade. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 20 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT Even creditor nations took in due time advantage of restrictive prac- tices in their international economic relations, with a view to obtain- ing the release of assets blocked in debtor countries or to insuring the servicing of defaulted loans. Some countries even used restrictions to enhance their political power by imposing bilateral terms of trade and by building up autarkic regions; in some parts of the world restric- tions as a result ultimately became an instrument of the aggressive policies which heralded the advent of another world conflict. When the Second World War broke out, exchange and trade restric- tions, in many cases still carried over from the depression years, were again used as an instrument of economic warfare. Most of the coun- tries which had until then resisted the imposition of restrictions were compelled by the war to reconsider their position. After the end of hostilities, countries wh ich did not require restrictions to cope with the ba lance of paymen ts d isequ i l ibr ia resulting from the serious eco- nomic dislocations of the war, were rare exceptions. Restrictions have since then again served a variety of purposes. 2. Exchange Restrictions under the Bretton Woods Agreement In tracing the spread of restrictions, it is not difficult to find valid reasons for their existence at any time of their varied history. They have always been applied with a view to satisfying the concrete needs implicit in prevailing policy objectives. However, policy objectives, in addition to being a reflection of current practical conditions, are also almost invariably a reflection of prevailing attitudes. Moreover, there is a tendency for restrictions to create conditions which require their continued use, or to persist even though the original need for them may have receded. In subscribing to the purposes of the Fund, all member countries have agreed that restrictions on current foreign exchange transactions, which cover the broadest sector of international economic relations, even though they may be necessary under certain conditions, are un- desirable in principle. The Articles of Agreement are thus a formal repudiation of restrictionism as a normal instrument of international economic policy. The adherence of members to this commitment as well as to the general philosophy embodied in the Articles of Agree- ment is indispensable for the eventual elimination of restrictions on their payments and transfers for current international transactions. As part of the postwar arrangements for international economic co- operation, a number of international agreements were worked out and in most cases have already come into effect. It was anticipated that one of the common purposes of the international agencies established under such agreements and of their members would be to create such ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CURRENT SITUATION AND PROBLEMS 21 an economic environment that the collaborating countries would nor- mally not need to pursue restrictive policies in their economic relations, once the transitional period of postwar adjustments had been term- inated. The Fund's role in this undertaking is set for th in the Articles of Agreement, which, among the purposes of the Fund, cite in Article I (iv) that of assisting "in the establishment of a multilateral system of payments in respect of current transactions between members and in the elimination of foreign exchange restrictions which hamper the growth of world trade." When domestic measures cannot restore the payments position, orderly adjustments of exchange rates can be used to correct balances of payments which are in fundamental disequilibrium. But it is the task of the Fund to insure that no member manipulate its exchange rates in a manner which may unduly damage the interests of others. With stability in world economic activity, the need for alterations of exchange rates should arise infrequently and in response only to structural changes. Departures from the principle of unrestricted current international payments under conditions of convertibility of member currencies would be exceptional and require in each case the approval of the Fund. On the other hand, every member country may protect itself against the serious disturbing effects which erratic international capital move- ments have had in the past on the international accounts of debtor and creditor nations alike. Article VI, Section 3 of the Articles of Agree- ment authorizes members to "exercise such controls as are necessary to regulate international capital movements," provided they are not ap- plied "in a manner which will restrict payments for current trans- actions or which will unduly delay transfers of funds in settlement of commitments." Restrictions can also be imposed under Article VII of the Articles of Agreement which provides that if one or several members are per- sistent creditors on international account and if it becomes evident to the Fund that the demand for the currencies of these members would seriously threaten its ability to supply them, the Fund shall formally declare such currencies to be scarce. After such a declaration is issued, members are authorized, after consultation with the Fund, to restrict current payments in the scarce currencies. A wide gap still exists between the ultimate objectives of the Fund and the actual exchange systems of its member countries. Even though the framers of the Fund at Bretton Woods may have expected speedier progress, they never anticipated that the world as it emerged ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 22 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT from the war would present such ideal conditions that the purposes of the Fund could be immediately accomplished. Indeed, they clearly foresaw that because of the tremendous disrup- tion of national economies, the distortion of foreign trade patterns and the disturbed international financial conditions, which were already in evidence at the time of the Bretton Woods Conference, the efforts re- quired to improve national economies and international economic re- lations would have to be much greater than those following any previous conflict. It was, therefore, realized that the postwar economic relations would not be conducive to a rapid abandonment of restric- tions. For that reason, the Articles of Agreement provided for a transi- tional period of postwar adjustments during which members may, with- out approval by the Fund, retain exchange restrictions on their current international payments, adapt them to changing circumstances, and even introduce new restrictions if their territory had been occupied by the enemy.1 The framers of the Fund considered it important, nevertheless, that during the transitional period members should not lose sight of the purposes of the Fund, and Article XIV, Section 2 of the Articles of Agreement provides therefore: "Members shall, however, have con- tinuous regard in their foreign exchange policies to the purposes of the Fund; and, as soon as conditions permit, they shall take all possible measures to develop such commercial and financial arrangements with other members as will facilitate international payments and the main- tenance of exchange stability. In particular, members shall withdraw restrictions maintained or imposed under this Section as soon as they are satisfied that they will be able, in the absence of such restrictions, to settle their balance of payments in a manner which will not unduly encumber their access to the resources of the Fund." This provision, as well as other provisions of the Articles of Agreement, indicates clearly that the transitional period should not be protracted indefin- itely, but provide the time necessary to overcome obstacles to the elimination of restrictions. 3. Postwar Developments When the Fund began operations on March 1, 1947, only five mem- bers, El Salvador, Guatemala, Mexico, Panama and the United States, refrained from availing themselves of the transitional arrangements under Article XIV, Section 2 of the Articles of Agreement, and under- took immediately pursuant to Article VIII of the Articles of Agree- 1 The obligations of members with respect to the introduction and modifica- tion of multiple currency practices was laid down in the letter of December 19, 1947, which is reproduced in the Appendix. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CURRENT SITUATION AND PROBLEMS 23 ment the obligation not to apply restrictions to their payments and transfers for current international transactions. No other members have to date formally joined their ranks. However, four other members in the Western Hemisphere are ex- tending very free treatment to their payments, even though they have not undertaken the obligations of Article VIII of the Articles of Agree- ment. Cuba has no quantitative restrictions on payments, and the tax of two per cent on all exchange remittances is obviously insignificant so far as its restrictive effect is concerned. Even payments for capital transactions are free. In the Dominican Republic U.S. dollars were for a long time the only legal tender. New national peso currency is now circulating, and no restrictions are applied to payments for imports, invisibles or capital transfers. A licensing system for foreign payments is formally in effect in Honduras, but licenses are freely granted. The only restriction on payments is a spread of two per cent between parity and the official selling rate for foreign exchange. Venezuela subsidizes exports of coffee and cocoa through preferential buying rates, applies lower buying rates to petroleum exports and subsidizes government imports through a preferential selling rate, but it applies neither quantitative exchange restrictions nor penalty selling rates of exchange. The payments position of all the above countries has been strong throughout the postwar period. Belgium and Luxembourg are the only member countries which at the end of the war applied severe restrictions but have since made conspicuous advances toward con- vertibility of their currencies. These countries have not renounced the use of their exchange regulations, but their application has become in- creasingly more liberal. Restrictions on certain dollar payments con- tinue, but Belgium and Luxembourg are relaxing these restrictions on all payments on current account, and are even extending generous treatment to capital transfers. The recent payments arrangements with Switzerland are further evidence of this trend. Since November 1949 trade between Belgium-Luxembourg and Switzerland and trans- fers of Swiss-owned capital in Belgium-Luxembourg have been freed f rom restrictions, thus placing the Belgian and Luxembourg francs on an equal footing with the U.S. dollar for Swiss residents and thereby providing a test of these currencies in a ma jor free international ex- change market. The currency of French Somaliland has been divorced from that of the rest of the French Franc Area and has been made fully convertible into U.S. dollars. This measure has been called for by the particular circumstances of that colony. Since the establishment of the Fund, however, a few members have, because of their deteriorated exchange position, instituted or adapted restrictions over their current international payments on a significant ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 24 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT scale. The exchange policy of Canada, which during the first post- war years was principally designed to prevent an outflow of capital, was revised in 1947. At that time, exchange for pleasure travel abroad was rationed, and certain imports were limited by quotas, individual licensing and prohibitions. Its reserve position having improved, Canada has since then again been relaxing the intensity of these re- strictions. In 1947 and 1948 Uruguay, by extending the application of penalty selling rates, reoriented its multiple exchange rate system from one serving mainly the anti-inflationary purpose of discouraging an excessive inflow of foreign capital into one restricting more effectively certain foreign payments. The Union of South Africa, suffering from a heavy import surplus, which was roughly equally divided between Sterling Area and other currencies, imposed exchange restrictions on non-sterling payments in 1948. In mid-1949 the Union introduced import restrictions applicable to all imports, and revised its restric- tions again effective January 1, 1950. The Philippine Republic found it necessary in December 1949 to impose restrictions both on current and capital transactions in order to arrest its heavy deficit. Ethiopia put into force toward the end of 1949 restrictions on all payments in order to cope with a balance of payments deficit and a decline in the value of its reserves resulting from the devaluation of sterling. The development of United Kingdom policy was of particular sig- nificance in connection with changes since the war in the intensity of restrictions. By the end of the war the multilateral use of sterling had almost disappeared, wartime requirements having resulted in bilateral arrangements covering virtually all countries outside the Sterling Area and the so-called American Account Area, and sterling could not be transferred between the various areas except to a minor extent and by specific permission. United Kingdom policy from 1946 has consist- ently aimed at extending the traasferability of sterling, at least for current transactions. Early in 1947 this process was formally begun by the introduction of the Transferable Account Area enabling sterling to be transferred automatically and freely for current transactions from any country within the area and also to any country in the American Account Area, i.e., into United States dollars. The formal restoration of the convertibility of sterling into U.S. dollars in July 1947 led to a heavy drain on the United Kingdom's foreign exchange re- serves and the facility of convertibility into United States dollars, available to Transferable Accounts by transfer to American Accounts, was suspended after a few weeks, and various changes were made in the list of countries to which the other Transferable Account arrange- ments continued to apply. In more recent years, the need further to economize foreign exchange resources, especially U.S. dollars and gold, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CURRENT SITUATION AND PROBLEMS 25 has led to a tightening of the exchange and import policies of the United Kingdom, mainly by severer import licensing. On the other hand, the desire to reestablish sterling as a medium for international settlements has led to a constantly growing extension of multilateral payments in sterling allowed by administrative action of the Bank of England. In many other countries, especially in Europe, restrictions followed not easily ascertainable trends. In some of the countries the tendency toward more or less restrictiveness has not always been consistent and has sometimes reversed itself. Generally, there was an inc l ina t ion to relax restrictions on soft currencies, without a comparable relaxation of restrictions on hard currency payments. Some countries even tended toward intensification of restrictions on hard currencies. However, due to financial aid from the United States the restriction of dollar pay- ments in Europe has not assumed as damaging proportions as would otherwise have been the case. A number of countries in Latin America have maintained conver- tibility of their currencies throughout the postwar period. The trend in the other countries which have retained restrictions has varied according to the differences in the structure of their trade relations and other factors. In most such cases the trend was toward fu r ther restric- tion by raising effective selling rates of exchange, by shifting com- modities from lower to higher selling rates or by extending quantita- tive restrictions, as the deterioration in the payments position and the depletion of reserves called for more cautious husbanding of foreign exchange resources. Latin American countries trading significantly with soft currency areas have also tended to favor payments in these currencies over those in U.S. dollars. On the other hand, a few coun- tries in the Western Hemisphere have more recently commenced to abandon restrictive systems involving multiple rates and to un i fy their exchange rate structures. The case of Mexico is a practical example of a member which succeeded in ma in ta in ing the convertibility of its currency by a drastic exchange devaluation. Nevertheless, certain import restrictions had to be imposed in the process. Many countries have entered into bilateral trade and payments agreements because they face particularly serious shortages of one or several foreign currencies, in most cases U.S. dollars, and because they prefer not to extend the required reduction of their payments in the scarce currencies un iform ly to all their foreign payments, regardless of the availability of the foreign currencies involved. Bilateralism in international trade and payments contains significant elements of self-propagation, but it is sometimes the only alternative to restricting the foreign payments of a country to the lowest level which would be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 26 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT determined by the availability of the scarcest foreign currency. Several member countries are linked with other members or non- metropolitan territories in broader currency areas. Preferential treat- ment is usually in varying degree extended to transactions within the same currency area. The French Franc Area links metropolitan France with its non-metropolitan territories other than French Somaliland. The Belgian Monetary Area includes Belgium and Luxembourg, in addition to the non-metropolitan territories of Belgium. The Sterling Area, which covers the United Kingdom, its non-metropolitan terri- tories, six Dominions, and four countries which are not members of the British Commonwealth,2 is the most comprehensive currency area. Payments between the members of the Sterling Area enjoy a consider- able degree of freedom, even though certain impediments have been erected between them. Import licensing is the rule, but it is more liber- ally applied to imports from within than from without the Sterling Area. Plans are being discussed for a closer integration of a number of European countries into a regional scheme which would involve freer payments relations between these countries. In general, progress toward unrestricted current transactions, which the Fund is committed to promo te, is not as yet apparent, in spite of some improvements in the underlying conditions which ju s t i fy hope for more visible progress in the fu tu re. Balance of payments considerations are, of course, the most com- mon motive for maintaining restrictions, but other factors also tend to sustain them. A not insignificant element of protectionism, and also of export subsidy, is involved in restrictions; they have been used as bargaining instruments in negotiating trade and payments agreements; and, in some instances, fiscal considerations are not negligible. The main causes of postwar payments difficulties have been exam- ined in some detail in the four Annual Reports of the Executive Direc- tors of the Fund, and they are, therefore, only briefly reviewed here. The most common disequilibrating factors since the world emerged f rom the Second World War have been disrupted production and dis- tribution facilities, distortions of traditional foreign trade patterns, momentous changes in international indebtedness, the behavior of capital, and inflation. The extent to which these forces adversely af- fected particular countries varied considerably, but they all tended to add to the relative strength of the payments position of the United States. 2 Australia, Ceylon, India, New Zealand, Pakistan and the Union of South A f r i c a; Burma, Iceland, Iraq and Ireland. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CURRENT SITUATION AND PROBLEMS 27 The postwar disruption of production and distribution facilities, of course, affected most profoundly the countries which had suffered actual war damage. But even belligerent countries which did not suffer from war destruction had during the war shifted all available production to purposes closely related to the war. In some countries certain in- dustries were overdeveloped to meet the extraordinary wartime de- mands, and the necessary postwar adjustments have involved strain on the economies of these countries. In the United States, the shift back from war to peacetime production was comparatively smooth. Because of its large domestic investments during the war, the absence of war destruction, and of a high level of investment during the post- war years, the United States was within a relatively short period of time able substantially to satisfy foreign as well as domestic demands. A f ter a slow start, the industrial production of other belligerent countries increased fa ir ly rapidly and has now approached or exceeded prewar levels in most cases. In the ma jor defeated countries, produc- tion is still lagging behind prewar, even though they have also reg- istered conspicuous advances. The agricultural production of the former belligerents in Europe and Asia is somewhat less satisfactory and has left considerable gaps in world supply. In a number of coun- tries, which have increased their aggregate output, expanded labor forces have been an important fac tor in their production gains. For these and other reasons, productivity has failed to increase sufficiently in many parts of the world to prevent a widening of the gap between their production standards and those of North America. The dislocation of traditional foreign trade patterns was in part a result of the wartime disruption of production and distribution facili- ties. Another ma jor source of distorted postwar trade patterns was the elimination of the defeated countries, particularly of Germany and Japan, as ma jor markets and sources of supply. Their many prewar trad ing partners were compelled to search for alternative markets for their exports and, to an even greater extent, for new sources of supply of imports. In many cases, they shifted their imports to the United States, a development assisted by the financial aid which the United States made available to them. Many countries of Europe, Asia and South America also sought to replace their disrupted trade with the ma jor defeated countries through channels other than the United States. Since, however, their potential trading partners were beset with exchange problems similar to their own, an expansion of foreign trade of this kind necessitated the con- clusion of a network of bilateral trade and payments agreements. In the more recent past, the situation has been improved by a revitaliza- tion of the German economy. On the other hand, the fa i lure of East- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 28 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT West European trade to recover has introduced additional difficulties in the establishment of satisfactory postwar trade patterns. In the Far East, disturbances and subnormal production in China and other areas have delayed progress toward a satisfactory level and pattern of foreign trade. Changes in international indebtedness have aggravated the pay- ments problems of some important trading countries. During and af ter the war some of the victorious Western European countries were com- pelled to pay for part of their war imports by liquidating their foreign assets overseas. Defeated nations were deprived of some of their for- eign assets at the end of the war. The United Kingdom was the largest single loser of foreign assets, and within less than for ty years, it has passed from the position of leading international creditor to that of the largest international debtor. Some of these foreign debts are in the form of sterling balances which creditor countries are allowed to use up to varying limits for current imports from the sterling and dollar areas. In a few cases, particularly in South America, creditors have used their sterling balances to acquire former United Kingdom investments within their territories. Other debts of the United King- dom are owed to the United States and Canada on account of war and postwar financial aid. Some other European countries have also been ma jor recipients of United States and Canadian financial aid. The difficulties of these European debtors may increase when the obliga- tion to make large remittances for the service and repayment of their debts places a fu r ther strain upon their exchange resources. Long before the outbreak of the Second World War, capital began to seek sanctuary from political insecurity, exchange devaluation and currency inconvertibility by moving to countries which afforded better conditions. These tendencies are still evident. Many of these capital movements take place between soft currency countries, as capital strives to get into the best available place. Much foreign capital, however, seeks refuge in United States dollars and other generally de- sired currencies, and in gold. Exchange restrictions, which have in many cases been devised to prevent the flight of capital, have also on occasions strengthened tendencies toward its escape. No control system is watertight, and funds are transferred abroad through illegal channels. Besides, many countries with restrictions have legalized or tolerated capital transfers through partial free markets at penalty selling rates. Legal or illegal private gold transactions at premium prices and dealings in bank- notes also have permitted capital to escape the regime of exchange restrictions. The tendencies toward capital flight are almost invari- ably most pronounced in countries whose balance of payments posi- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CURRENT SITUATION AND PROBLEMS 29 tion is such that they can least afford this additional drain on their exchange resources. To a large extent, of course, it is within the power of their responsible authorities to limit capital flight through appro- priate budget and internal credit policies. If governments as well as central and commercial banking authorities acted with more restraint, the monetary liquidity would be lacking which is necessary for inter- na t ional capital transfers on a large scale. Countries suffer ing f rom a flight of capital are essentially for the same reasons deprived of the benefit of an inflow of foreign capital. Exchange restrictions are of themselves a powerful deterrent to foreign capital investment even though favo rab le repatriation arrangements have been extended by some countries to importers of capital. Because of domestic price and distribution controls, the monetary in- flation generated by the war remained in many countries latent to a considerable extent until a f ter the termination of hostilities. The post- war release of accumulated domestic purchasing power and the war- deferred demand gave rise in many parts of the world to pressure for imports on an unprecedented scale. The import demand was to a certain extent sustained by overvalued rates of exchange which made the prices of imported goods too attractive. The United States was the one ma jor country which was in a position to supply the desired products. A few countries are still confronted with runaway inflation, but conditions generally seem to indicate that the ma jor forces of post- war inflation have been arrested in most countries. In many countries the remaining inflationary pressures result mainly from easy credit or the absence of firm * budget policies and fa i lure to establish appro- priate methods of taxation. In some countries the economic develop- ment policies have for an extended period of time been accompanied by inflationary financing. As productive resources were more and more fu l ly utilized and the sellers' market receded, the overvaluation of many currencies in rela- tion to the U.S. dollar became more evident. Some countries adjusted their exchange rates before their membership in the Fund became effective. Others began to realign their currencies in 1947 and 1948 through floating rates of exchange 3 or, because of acute inflationary conditions, by changing their official rates of exchange from time to time.4 Two Latin American members of the Fund established new par values in December 1948 and June 1949, respectively.5 The changed conditions were most dramatically recognized in September, October 3 France, Italy, Lebanon, Peru and Syria. 4 China and Greece. 5 Colombia devalued by 10%; Mexico by about 44%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 30 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT and November 1949. During these months, there were alterations in the agreed par values of thirteen member curriencies,6 in the official exchange rates or rates of analogous significance of six members with- out agreed par values,7 in most of the par values of non-metropolitan currencies, and in a number of exchange rates of non-members.8 Many inconvertible currencies have thereby been brought more in line with the U.S. dollar. There is reason to believe that the new rates of exchange will have beneficial effects on the payments position of the countries concerned. But the time that has so far elapsed is too short to permit an appraisal of the recent exchange adjustments, par t icu lar ly so far as their effec ts on restraining payments in hard currencies are concerned. 4. Road to Relaxation of Restrictions An appraisal of the factors underlying the current payments d iff i- culties of nearly all member countries indicates that, though some of the postwar economic disturbances have been brought under control, others are still in evidence. More rapid and consistent improvement would be possible if the internal policies of members were more de- cisively oriented to the Fund's objective of freeing current international payments f rom exchange restrictions, and if concerted international action were taken to alleviate difficulties which are beyond the ex- clusive control of the countries particularly affected by them. It is the intention of the Fund to extend increasingly its active cooperation and assistance to members in coping with obstacles of either type to cur- rency convertibility. Many members have entered into formal or informal consultations with the Fund concerning problems which are essentially within their own control. The Fund has on such occasions not limited its advice to the technical aspects of the measures under consideration, but has also weighed the merits of the contemplated policies from the point of view of their ultimate effects on the economies and balances of payments of members. The Fund desires to cooperate with its members even more closely in the future in devising policies which would help to im- prove their internal financial position and eliminate impediments to the establishment of more liberal international payments regimes. Primary responsibility for the implementation of these policies rests, 6 Australia, Denmark, Egypt, Iceland, India, Iraq, Netherlands, Norway, the Union of South Africa and the United Kingdom devalued by about 30.5%; Belgium and Luxembourg by over 12%; and Canada by more than 9%. 7 Austria, Finland, France, Greece, Italy and Thailand. 8 The devaluations of Argentina, Burma, Ceylon, Hashemite Jordan, Ireland, Israel, New Zealand, Portugal, Sweden and Western Germany were the most significant adjustments of non-member currencies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CURRENT SITUATION AND PROBLEMS 31 of course, with the member countries concerned. They alone can in- sure that restrictions are not applied for purposes other than the correction of balance of payments deficits. They alone can shape domestic credit and fiscal policies so as to curb inflation effectively and insure that maximum production and sales efforts are made to pro- mote exports. And the initiative in adjusting the rate of exchange to the most appropriate level also rests with the countries immediately concerned. Some exchange restrictions are not primarily motivated by balance of payments considerations. The protection of special sectors of domes- tic production undoubtedly plays a significant part in their application in some cases. It is, indeed, difficult at times to isolate protectionist from balance of payments considerations, because under prevailing conditions protectionism is frequently also a fac tor in balance of pay- merits policy. This is particularly true when domestic production is protected from the competition of imports from hard currency areas. But many countries are protecting domestic production also from the competition of soft currency areas. There is a stronger presumption in such cases that protectionist motives are factors contributing to the maintenance of restrictions. In general, countries employing exchange restrictions for protectionist purposes must face the fact that more competition on a non-discriminatory basis in international economic relations is an important prerequisite for the resumption of multilateral trade and payments and for the international division of labor which multilateral trade, serves. In some countries exchange taxes and similar exchange devices in- cidentally serve fiscal purposes. The problem of replacing them with other taxes is in many cases difficult. If such restrictions were sud- denly removed without corresponding reductions in government ex- penditures, additional inflationary pressures would be generated, with adverse effects on the exchange position of the countries concerned. The inter-relationship between fiscal interests and balance of pay- ments problems points to the necessity of shaping fiscal policies so as not to interfere with the relaxation of exchange restrictions. Countries in which this issue is important should, therefore, make determined efforts to develop new sources of fiscal revenue. In a few exceptional cases the fiscal argument is advanced to jus t i fy the retention of ex- change restrictions by countries in a relatively favorable payments position. The use of exchange restrictions for fiscal purposes is f re- quently the outgrowth of an extended historical process, but the Articles of Agreement do not sanction the application of restrictions under such conditions. Every member has an obligation to observe restraints in its credit ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 32 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT and fiscal policies, if its par value is to retain its economic jus t i f ica- tion. Under prevailing conditions, the Fund continues, therefore, to urge its member countries to practice restraints in their domestic policies in order to avoid inflation with its adverse effects on their payments position. The views of the Fund in this respect are not to be interpreted as an invitation to members to embark on damaging de- flationary policies leading to a severe decline in employment. The importance of high levels of employment is stressed in the Articles of Agreement and has been borne in mind by the Fund in advising mem- bers on financial policies. However, this desirable objective has on occasion been advanced as a justification for inflationary policies which were, in effec t, pursued for other motives. In seeking to attain and maintain satisfactory levels of employment, members should not lose sight of the necessity of safeguarding monetary stability and of arriving at acceptable international balance. The objectives of the Fund require, among other things, that the financial and economic policies of member countries should not disturb their payments posi- tion in a manner which will necessitate persistent recourse to restric- tions. Monetary stability promotes a balanced growth of international trade which, in its turn, tends to contribute significantly to high levels of employment. Some countries have not altogether succeeded in resisting the pres- sure for easy credit policies. Credit inflation invariably tends to sus- tain import demand at excessive levels, particularly when importers are permitted to finance foreign purchases by means of liberal bank credit. Such credit tends to be increased as the domestic prices of imports rise in response to inflationary forces and to the "scarcity" conditions resulting from restrictions, which are the almost inevitable consequence of an inflated import demand. In some countries policies of economic development have been ac- companied by inflation. The Fund is in fu ll sympathy with the efforts of its member countries to speed the development of their latent re- sources. However, if monetary stability is to be safeguarded, the means employed to this end are necessarily of great importance, and there are inherent limitations to inflation-financed economic development. If, because foreign capital is not available in sufficient volume, the money incomes required for developmental investments have to be generated internally, the results are likely to be far less effective under conditions of fu ll employment, when the requisite shift of fac- tors into new enterprises will, at least in the short run, adversely a f fect production for export, than when there has been some unemploy- ment and this undesirable consequence can be more easily avoided. Inflation can be avoided to the extent to which domestic savings, in- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CURRENT SITUATION AND PROBLEMS 33 eluding those of governments and of public institutions, can be stim- ulated and directed into proper channels. An additional fac tor which may make inflationary f inanc ing ineffective is the likelihood that part of the entrepreneurial profits may be spent on consumption goods, many of them necessarily of fore ign origin, instead of being continuously re- invested in the domestic economy. Even the unspent portion of profits may, exchange restrictions to the contrary notwithstanding, be transferred abroad rather than reinvested at home if, as is likely under easy credit policies, there is already sufficient liquidity in the domestic economy. Experience has clearly shown that inflation undermines the exports of a country, not only by raising internal costs, but also by tending to sh ift products from export to domestic consumption. At the same time as inflationary impediments to exports are being removed, every country should also insure that the greatest possible e f fo rt is made to produce the goods which it can efficiently export and sell in the appro- priate markets abroad. If exports fail to move to foreign markets in adequate volume, the resulting disequilibrium in the balance of payments cannot be cor- rected by imposing or tightening exchange restrictions. The only al- ternatives are a reduction of domestic costs by a monetary contrac- tion, or a reduction of the selling prices abroad by an exchange deval- uation. A country might wish to avoid deflation and also to delay a change in its exchange rate by imposing or tightening exchange re- strictions instead. These restrictions will, however, be effective in the long run only if accompanied by adjustments similar to those which would have been needed if exchange restrictions had not been tightened. At the same time, some fac tors which have a bearing on the pay- ments position of countries are of external origin, and no member can by itself control them. The success of export drives of deficit countries depends generally on the level of world economic activity, and more particularly, on the level of incomes in the surplus countries. The greater the confidence in the stability of demand in the surplus coun- tries, the more readily the exporters of other countries will embark on the rather costly enterprise of launch ing their products in hard cur- rency markets. The policies of surplus countries with respect to im- port duties, customs procedures and other impediments to imports are, of course, also of considerable consequence to countries desiring to enter hard currency markets. Surplus countries should modify their policies appropriately on their own initiative. However, the Fund, which recognizes the significance of the conditions and policies of the surplus countries, is prepared to enter into consultations with them whenever the situation requires it. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 34 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT An improvement in the capital accounts of many countries, while not a prerequisite for the removal of restrictions from current interna- tional transactions, would strengthen their balances of payments and facilitate the removal of restrictions. For example, the accumulation of heavy foreign indebtedness by some countries raises problems which cannot be solved by the policies of the debtor countries alone. Simi- larly, the position of countries suffering from a shortage of capital could be considerably improved by an adequate inflow of long-term investment funds. In some cases the absence of such a capital inflow is the result of the atmosphere of general insecurity, but some countries could probably attract private foreign capital in larger volume if they insured more favorable treatment to foreign investments. For example, the relaxation of restrictions on the remittance of contractual invisible payments for amortization and earnings of foreign investments would be an important step toward inspiring confidence in the credit-worth- iness of borrowing countries. The tax policies in borrowing and lend- ing countries are also of consequence in this respect. The difficulties of attracting foreign capital are, of course, increased under conditions of general world insecurity on the one hand and of persistent monetary instability in borrowing countries on the other. As a rule, therefore, an adequate flow of private foreign long-term capital seems to depend on improved world security and confidence, on relatively liberal ex- change regimes and on stable domestic financial policies in the bor- rowing countries. It is, of course, recognized that public funds of the capital surplus countries are, for one reason or another, likely to remain important as a source of foreign capital. Some countries feel that they can more safely remove restrictions on an extensive scale as part of a program of concerted international ac- tion, because the maintenance of their restrictive practices is to a con- siderable extent a reflection of the policies of their trading partners. Countries with hard currency deficits and soft currency surpluses should not depend on surplus currencies becoming convertible as the solution of their payments problems, and they should, therefore, not slacken their efforts to increase their direct earnings of hard curren- cies. On the other hand, some countries are prevented from removing restrictions when the natural markets abroad for their exports are surrounded with restrictions or when restrictions abroad make it im- possible for them to convert the exchange proceeds of their exports into the currencies required to pay for their imports. Since member countries cannot in all cases be expected to act in- dividually in relaxing their restrictions, international action is re- quired to this end. The Fund provides machinery for consultation and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CURRENT SITUATION AND PROBLEMS 35 collaboration, and it is the appropriate coordinating agency for the removal of the exchange restrictions applied by member countries. Fully recognizing that the elimination of exchange restrictions is f raught with difficulties, particularly under prevailing economic con- ditions, the Fund does not anticipate that such action will normally be taken in one stroke. It is in any event unavoidable that, in relaxing restrictions, members be prepared to incur some risks in establishing patterns of international payments which alone can ultimately insure to them manageable balance of payments conditions at high levels of employment without recourse to restrictions. But the risks can be minimized without imperiling these ultimate objectives if exchange restrictions are gradually relaxed. Members proceeding in this manner can progressively test their balance of payments position and can time appropriately the next successive stages in the process of removing restrictions. Restrictions can be gradually relaxed in three ways. They can be removed progressively by specified categories of international trans- actions; by specified foreign currencies; or by specified means of in- ternational payment. Restrictions should normally be gradually relaxed by categories of international transactions, such as all imports or invisibles, or specified imports or invisibles. The relaxation of quantitative exchange re- strictions in this manner will ordinarily involve a progressive reduc- tion in the rate of rejection of applications for foreign exchange, until restrictions are eventually transformed into mere instruments for the administrative supervision of international transactions on current account. Where quantitative restrictions include outright prohibitions of specified transactions, the process of relaxation might involve the intermediate step of permitting, subject to license, transactions previous- ly prohibited. The progressive elimination of cost restrictions is really a process of un i fy ing the exchange rate structure. Gradual removal of composite restrictions involves both a step-by-step unification of the exchange rate structure and a progressive transformation of the re- strictive elements of discretionary action into mere instruments of administrative supervision. E f fo r ts have also been made to relax restrictions by specified cur- rencies, favoring payments in soft over those in hard currencies. Relaxation can take place under bilateral trade and payments agree- ments which exempt f rom restrictions certain international transac- tions of special interest to the parties to such agreements. Under many of these arrangements the differentiation by currencies is easily as- certainable, while in other instances the relaxation of restrictions is formally related to specified transactions, which tends to conceal the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 36 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT currency consideration. The formation of currency areas and regional payment arrangements is a broader method of relaxing restrictions by currencies. Under such arrangements, transactions within the currency area are normally less restricted than international transactions out- side it. The Fund is giving close and continuous study to the implica- tions of these methods of relaxing restrictions, especially with respect to their effect on the progress of members toward removal of restric- tions on a global basis. Some countries have in recent months removed restrictions from certain specified means of foreign payment, such as foreign or domestic banknotes. This may be a desirable form of relaxing restrictions but only in advanced stages on the road to convertibility; otherwise, it tends to create greater multiplicity instead of greater uniformity of effective rates of exchange. The elimination of restrictions on the repatriation of domestic banknotes, moreover, tends to increase the risk of capital flight. The removal of exchange restrictions on an extensive scale has encountered serious obstacles in the postwar years. However, mem- bers should find the task less difficult in the future if the present trends of improvement in world economic conditions continue. It is the ex- pectation of the Fund that members will take advantage of any such improvement to move in the direction to which they are committed under the Articles of Agreement. In the period ahead, the Fund should, therefore, take an increasingly active role in the relaxation of exchange restrictions. To summarize, the Fund's approach to the over-all problem of re- moving exchange restrictions must be influenced by two general con- siderations. The first is that, in many cases, relaxation has to be a progressive action over a period of time. The relaxation of restrictions necessarily involves uncertainties, but by a gradual program members can with the proper guidance realize the ultimate objectives without incurring any unnecessary risks. The Fund remains in close contact with the problems of member countries applying restrictions. It will assist them in working out policies designed to improve their financial position and advise them concerning appropriate procedures for relax- ing restrictions. At the same time, the Fund will consult with coun- tries in strong balance of payments positions concerning the policies which would most facilitate the removal of restrictions by deficit members. The second significant consideration is that to a considerable degree the actions of members are interdependent. The ability of one member to eliminate exchange restrictions is often a function of the policies and actions of other members. This emphasizes the need for a concerted ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CURRENT SITUATION AND PROBLEMS 37 and coordinated program so that the policies and practices of every member will to the maximum extent assist, rather than frustrate, the efforts of those who are seeking to achieve freedom from restrictions. In Article I of the Articles of Agreement, member countries have signified their intention to work together toward the multilateraliza- tion of international payments and the elimination of exchange re- strictions which hamper world trade. They have established and recognized the Fund as the instrument for coordination and cooperation in the monetary field. The Fund feels that its individual consultations with member countries during the past three years have been f ru i t ful in many respects and that their extension is desirable. The Fund ex- pects also to contribute to the progress toward the relaxation of re- strictions by initiating, encouraging and coordinating appropriate con- certed action among its members. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT II ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Introduction The exchange controls and restrictions applied by member coun- tries which have availed themselves of the transitional arrangements under Article XIV, Section 2 of the Articles of Agreement are reviewed in the subsequent pages. It has not been possible under prevailing conditions to cover the exchange controls and restrictions in effect in China. In view of the close relationship between the exchange policies of Belgium and Luxembourg, the exchange controls and restrictions of these two members are surveyed jointly. No separate surveys have been prepared for non-metropolitan territories, with the exception of Hong Kong, where the exchange controls and restrictions vary signifi- cantly from those of the United Kingdom. As previously indicated,9 there is no difference in the practical effects of restrictions maintained under Article XIV, Section 2 and those under Article VIII, Section 2 or 3 of the Articles of Agreement. They are, therefore, jointly covered in the country surveys. However, the inclusion of a restriction in this Report should not be construed as in- dicating that the Fund has in each case given approval where such was required. In order to present a complete picture of each exchange system, the country surveys also mention significant controls and restrictions on capital transfers. Such controls may be exercised by members under Article VI, Section 3 of the Articles of Agreement, if they do not re- strict payments for current transactions or unduly delay transfers of funds in settlement of commitments. These restrictions are not dealt with in any great detail. Transfers of dividends, interest and other investment income are, in accordance with Article XIX (i) of the Articles of Agreement, considered as current invisible transactions and are discussed in the country surveys in the relevant section on invisi- bles. However, in some cases, where the exchange restrictions applied to invisible transactions are very closely connected with the restrictions on capital transfers, they have been discussed in the section on capital. In order to present a clear description of exchange controls and restrictions in member countries, a standardized pattern has been fol- lowed wherever practicable. It consists of a uniform presentation of the restrictive features of each system, using a consistent terminology for describing similar practices. In the interest of standardization, each study on exchange controls and restrictions is divided into the following sections: Date of Intro- duction, Nature of Restrictive System, Exchange Rates, Exchange Payments (with subdivisions), and Exchange Receipts (with sub- 9 See page 1. 41 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 42 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT divisions). Additional sections on Exchange Control Territory, Non- Resident Accounts, Domestic Banknotes and Foreign Banknotes have been included in a few country surveys. Under Date of Introduction, the dates when exchange controls and restrictions were originally introduced and when last they were signifi- cantly revised are cited. These dates serve to indicate the period of the existence of exchange restrictions, without attempting a complete historical review of exchange controls and restrictions. Under Nature of Restrictive System, the prevailing types of restric- tions are classified in accordance with the preceding discussion and the essential features of the restrictive system, particularly of those apply- ing to trade and invisibles, are briefly described. Multiple currency practices on the selling and buying sides, where they exist, and re- quirements concerning export proceeds and export licensing are also mentioned. Under Exchange Rates, the par value, where one exists, is expressed in terms of United States dollars, and the official buying and selling rates, if any, are quoted in the same manner. General remarks are also made wherever applicable concerning the important features of the exchange rate system, but the surveys of member countries with several effective rates of exchange include a more detailed tabulation of these rates and their applicability under the separate section Table of Exchange Rates at the end of the particular survey. The fixed buying and selling rates quoted are those effective as of the end of 1949, while the fluctuating rates quoted represent average rates for the month of December 1949, unless otherwise noted. Exchange rates in illegal markets are not covered, as they are not deemed to be part of the official exchange systems concerned, even if they assume considerable importance in some member countries. Under Exchange Payments, the exchange restrictions applied to international payments are described. Trade restrictions closely re- lated to exchange restrictions are also mentioned. The term "import license" is used to describe individual permits granted by the trade authorities to effect the importation of a given commodity. When it is stated that only certain imports require import licenses, it is to be understood that all other imports are free of restrictions of this type, unless otherwise explained. In various countries the legislation con- cerned uses different technical terms, such as "free lists" or "open general licenses/' to describe arrangements whereby imports and other international transactions are exempt from the restrictive application of the licensing requirements. In the interest of uniformity, such ar- rangements are referred to by the standard expression "certain imports (or other transactions) are freely permitted." The expression "ex- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PART TWO 43 change is automatically granted for authorized imports" means that exchange is freely allocated to those imports which are permitted by individual or general import licenses, or which do not require import licenses. The term "exchange license" is used to describe the individual per- mits granted by the exchange authorities to effect exchange payments. Where exchange payments are exempt from individual permits, or can be freely effected by specified categories of residents or in specified currencies without any limitation or up to certain limits, the standard expression "foreign exchange is freely granted up to certain limits" or its appropriate equivalent is used. As in the case of import regula- tions, the differences in national terminology in this respect have been avoided. In relation to capital payments, the term "require approval" is used to express the fact that permits are necessary to effect such payments either on behalf of residents or non-residents. The term "approval" has a broader meaning than "licenses," as it may include special con- ditions connected with the transfer of capital. Under Exchange Receipts, special requirements relating to exchange proceeds from exports, invisibles and capital are described. Where the exchange control regulations include special requirements that the pro- ceeds must be obtained in a prescribed manner, an expression such as "the exchange proceeds of exports must be received in an appropriate currency or from an appropriate non-resident account" is used. The term "surrender" is used to denote the compulsory sale of exchange proceeds at specified rates of exchange. In some countries, the "sur- render" of exchange proceeds is not required, but these proceeds may not be retained indefinitely or used for international payments without specific license. Alternatively, it may be required that certain exchange proceeds be sold in a free market. These cases are specifically men- tioned in the country surveys. Under Exchange Control Territory, the extent of applicability of a given national system of exchange controls and restrictions is explained when it covers two or more sovereign or autonomous territories and when a resident of one country is treated as a resident of another country for the purposes of exchange control. Under Non-Resident Accounts, special arrangements governing pay- ments through the accounts of non-residents are described where they play an important part in settling payments between non-residents. In two country surveys, a section on Banknotes is added to outline special provisions relating to the use of foreign or domestic banknotes in international transactions. The terms "resident" and "non-resident" have been used throughout ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 44 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT the country surveys, even though the regulations of certain countries refer to "exchange nationals" and "exchange foreigners/7 or similar designations. In general, countries apply these terms on the basis of the normal domicile or the active place of business of the individual or legal entity concerned, but other criteria such as nationality and length of residence may also be taken into account. In preparing these country surveys, it was found necessary to estab- lish a date beyond which changes in the exchange systems would not be taken into account. December 31, 1949, was chosen as the appropriate date for this purpose, and all country surveys are fac tual as of that date. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1. Exchange Controls and Restrictions in the Sterling Area General Remarks United Kingdom Hong Kong Australia Iceland India Iraq Union of South Africa Page No. 47 49 52 54 56 57 59 60 45 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GENERAL REMARKS The Sterling Area is a historical development connected with the prewar position of London as the financial center for the Common- wealth and for many other countries having specially close commercial and financial relations with the United Kingdom. It owes its more for- malized existence today to war and postwar developments. No substan- tial alteration has taken place in the essential features of the Sterling Area arrangements, which consist in the pooling of foreign exchange re- serves, particularly of dollar reserves under the management of the Bank of England; in utilizing London as a clearing center for intra- Sterling Area payments; and in conferring on the United Kingdom the function of arranging the channel of payments between the Sterling Area and outside through trade and payments arrangements. How- ever, the introduction of exchange control made it necessary to define the territories which were free f rom the restrictions applied to trans- actions with other countries. Since the end of the Second World War, changing conditions, largely of a political nature, have tended to modify the application of the general principles mentioned above, and some territories within the Sterling Area have concluded trade agreements on their own account, and not all of them continue to contribute their gold and dollar resources to the pool. Several territories within the Sterling Area require licenses for trade with and payments to other parts of the Sterling Area. How- ever, the degree of restriction applied to transactions within the Sterl- ing Area is usually less than that applied to transactions with coun- tries outside the Sterling Area. The pooling of foreign exchange resources and the fact that London is the center through which most of the Sterling Area's foreign ex- change settlements are made, have enabled the various territories of the Sterling Area to apply the same general conditions to foreign ex- change transactions between their particular territory and countries outside the Sterling Area as are applied by the United Kingdom. In this way, the various territories officially acknowledge foreign ex- change transactions, not only when settled by the usual means of acceptable foreign exchange or in local currency from an appropriate non-resident bank account, but also when settled through the appro- priate non-resident sterling accounts in the United Kingdom. The various territories of the Sterling Area pursue largely a com- mon policy in import licensing and in the allocation of foreign ex- change in payment of invisibles. All parts of the Sterling Area restrict their imports and the consequent demand for foreign exchange by im- port licensing, but it is a fundamental principle of all the territories 47 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 48 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT in the Sterling Area, with the sole exception of Iceland, that the pos- session of an import license entitles the importer automatically to purchase the appropriate foreign exchange. Close attention is paid in import licensing policies to the need of conserving "hard" currencies in order that these foreign exchange resources of the Sterling Area may not be too severely reduced. The same criterion applies to applications for exchange for non-contractual invisibles, such as travel. At the end of 1949, the Sterling Area comprised the following terri- tories: United Kingdom with British Colonies and Protectorates, Australia, Burma, Ceylon, Iceland, India, Iraq, Ireland, New Zealand, Pakistan and the Union of South Africa. Surveys are included for the United Kingdom, Australia, Iceland, India, Iraq and the Union of South Africa, as these are also members of the International Mone- tary Fund. British Colonies and Protectorates follow the exchange con- trol policy of the United Kingdom, merely adapting the latter's regu- lations to local conditions, and therefore, separate studies covering their exchange systems are not necessary. However, Hong Kong, in view of the fact that its trade is predominantly of an entrepot nature and also having regard to its proximity to China, is in several respects an exception to the general remarks applicable to other British Colonies, and does not conform closely to the general pattern. For this reason, it forms the subject of a separate study. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS UNITED KINGDOM Date of Introduction September 3, 1939. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are quantitative. They are exercised through import licenses required for imports, and exchange licenses required for non- trade payments to outside the Sterling Area. Exchange is automati- cally granted for authorized imports. Most foreign exchange, other than Sterling Area currencies, must be surrendered. Specified exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: United Kingdom Pound 1 = US$ 2.80. Official rates: buying US$ 2.80125, selling US$ 2.79875 per £1. Exchange Payments Payments to outside the Sterling Area must be effected either in the foreign exchange appropriate to the country or by crediting the appropriate sterling account of a non-resident. Payments on behalf of persons in other territories of the Sterling Area require approval of their local exchange control authorities. Imports. —Imports require import licenses. Certain imports are freely permitted, particularly in relation to trade with O.E.E.C. countries. Exchange is automatically granted for authorized imports. Invisibles.—Payments to outside the Sterling Area require licenses. Foreign exchange is freely granted for expenses incidental to trade transactions. Remittances for such purposes as charity, maintenance and education are authorized by individual licenses in moderate amounts. Residents travelling to specified countries are freely granted certain amounts in the appropriate currencies. Not more than £5 in British banknotes may be taken out of the United Kingdom except by persons travelling direct to Ireland. The transfer abroad of dividends, reasonable profits, and other current earnings due to non-residents is freely authorized, but the remittance of film royalties due to United States companies is limited by special agreement. Certain freedom in exchange operations is granted to specified commodity markets, e.g., rubber, coffee, tin and grain, and to the insurance market. Capital.—Transfers of capital to outside the Sterling Area require approval. Foreign exchange is freely granted for repayments abroad in respect of matured capital obligations of non-residents. In other ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 50 EXCHANGE BESTRICTIONS REPORT cases, the liquidation proceeds of foreign capital can only be used for reinvestment in approved securities. Capital transfers are authorized in limited amounts in cases of emigration to countries outside the Sterling Area. Exchange Receipts Exports. —Export licenses are required for specified essential com- modities in short supply or subject to government distribution. The proceeds of all exports to outside the Sterling Area must be received (1) from a sterling account appropriate to the country of destination, or (2) in some cases, in appropriate foreign exchange. Most foreign exchange, other than Sterling Area currencies, must be surrendered. Invisibles. —Most exchange receipts from invisibles, other than Sterling Area currencies, must be surrendered. Permission is given for foreign exchange to be retained on controlled accounts where it is required for operating purposes. Not more than £5 in British bank- notes may be brought into the United Kingdom except by persons travelling direct from Ireland. Capital. —Most foreign exchange receipts from capital, other than Sterling Area currencies, must be surrendered. Most foreign exchange receipts f rom securities can be used for reinvestment. Persons residing outside the Sterling Area making investments in the United Kingdom must provide appropriate foreign exchange or sterling from a non- resident account related to their country or monetary area. Non-Resident Accounts The sterling accounts of non-residents, i.e., those resident outside the Sterling Area, are available for payments in the Sterling Area and for transfers to residents in the same country or monetary area as the account-holder. The extent of transferability of these accounts to other non-residents varies according to the following four groups described below. However, a considerable degree of transferability is achieved by granting licenses to effect payments outside the prescribed arrangements. Balances on American Accounts and Swiss Accounts may be converted into United States dollars and Swiss francs respec- tively. 1. American Accounts (Bolivia, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippine Republic, United States and possessions, and Venezuela). Payments from these accounts may be freely made to any account related to countries in the American Account Area, the Transferable Account Area and in the Residual Group. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 51 Balances on American Accounts are freely convertible into U.S. dollars. 2. Transferable Accounts (Anglo-Egyptian Sudan, Chile, Czech- oslovakia, Egypt, Ethiopia, Finland, Iran, Italy, Nether- lands Monetary Area, Norway, Poland, Spanish Monetary Area, Sweden, Thailand and the U.S.S.R.). In addition to Transferable Accounts, there are other accounts related to countries in this Area. Payments from Transferable Accounts may be freely made to any account related to the Transfer- able Account Area or Residual Group in respect of direct current transactions. Payments from other accounts of resi- dents in the Transferable Account Area may be freely made to any account, including to a Transferable Account, related to the same country or monetary area as the account-holder. 3. Bilateral Accounts (Argentina, Austria, Belgian Monetary Area, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, China, Denmark, Formosa, French Franc Area, French Somaliland, Greece, Hashemite Jordan, Hungary, Israel, Japan, Lebanon, Paraguay, Peru, Portuguese Monetary Area, Rumania, Switzerland, Syria, Tangier, Turkey, Uruguay, Vatican City, Western Germany and Yugoslavia). Payments from these accounts (excluding China and Formosa to which certain restrictions have been applied exceptionally) may be freely made to any account related to the same country or monetary area as the account- holder. 4. Residual Group (All countries not in the above groups, in- cluding Afghanistan, Albania, Cyrenaica, Eritrea, Liberia, Saudi Arabia and Tripolitania). Payments from these ac- counts may be freely made to any account related to any country in this group. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 52 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT HONG KONG Date of Introduction September 8, 1939. Last ma jor revision August 21, 1948. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are predominantly quantitative and cost. They are exercised through import licenses required for imports of certain com- modities or from certain countries, through exchange licenses required for non-trade payments, and through a multiple currency practice consisting of a free market, mainly in United States dollars. Foreign exchange, with certain important exceptions, must be surrendered. A few exports required licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: Hong Kong Dollars 5.71429 = US$ 1. Official rates: buying HK$ 5.7142, selling HK$ 5.7971 per US$ 1. Free market rate currently around HK$ 6.50 per US$ 1. Exchange Payments Imports.—A few specified imports from China, Indo-China, Indo- nesia, Macao, the Philippine Republic, the Sterling Area, Thailand and the United States require import licenses. All other imports f rom these territories are free of license. Imports f rom other countries require import and exchange licenses. Foreign exchange, other than U.S. dol- lars, in payment for authorized imports may be obtained at the rate corresponding to the HK$ 5.7971 rate. U.S. dollar exchange at the HK$ 5.7971 rate is normally authorized only for imports regarded as strictly essential. For other authorized imports payable in U.S. dollars, foreign exchange must be obtained in the free market. Invisibles.—Payments in currencies other than U.S. dollars at the HK$ 5.7971 rate require licenses. Payments to the Sterling Area at the rate corresponding to the HK$ 5.7971 rate, for insurance, travel, divi- dends and interest, and payments under £500 do not require licenses. Payments may be freely effected through the free market. Capital.—Transfers of capital in currencies other than U.S. dollars may be effected at the HK$ 5.7971 rate but they require licenses. Transfers under £500 to the Sterling Area, at the rate corresponding to the HK$ 5.7971 rate, do not require licenses. Transfers of capital may be freely effected through the free market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 53 Exchange Receipts Exports.—Exports to countries, other than China and the Sterling Area, require export licenses, which are freely granted if the exporter agrees to surrender the export proceeds in accordance with the regula- tions. Export licensing is restrictively applied to a few commodities in short supply. The U.S. dollar proceeds of most Hong Kong exports originating in China, Hong Kong, Korea, or Macao, are freely dis- posable. The U.S. dollar proceeds from exports originating in other countries must be entirely surrendered. The U.S. dollar export pro- ceeds of several commodities, regardless of their country of origin, must be surrendered in varying percentages. Exchange proceeds in other currencies from exports to countries other than China, Korea, Macao and the Sterling Area must be surrendered in foreign exchange appro- priate to the country of destination. All exchange proceeds from ex- ports to China, Korea, Macao and the Sterling Area are freely disposable. Invisibles.—Exchange receipts from invisibles are freely disposable. Capital.—Exchange receipts from capital are freely disposable. Non-Resident Accounts Credits to the accounts of banks situated outside the Sterling Area, China and Macao require licenses. Payments from these accounts may be made to residents of Hong Kong, including payments for ex- ports to the respective countries invoiced in Hong Kong dollars. Credits to the accounts of persons and firms resident in the North American continent and the Philippine Republic require licenses. Credits to such accounts of other countries do not require licenses. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 54 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT AUSTRALIA Date of Introduction August 28, 1939. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are quantitative. They are exercised through import licenses required for some imports, and through exchange licenses re- quired for non-trade payments. Exchange is automatically granted for authorized imports. Foreign exchange from exports must be sur- rendered. Exchange receipts f rom invisibles and capital in U.S. dol- lars, or Canadian dollars in banknote or check fo rm, must be sur- rendered. Practically all exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par va lue: Australian Pound 1 = US$ 2.24. Off ic ial rates: buying US$ 2.2425, selling US$ 2.2275 per £A 1. Exchange Payments Payments to outside the Sterling Area must be effec ted either in the foreign exchange appropriate to the country of the recipient or by crediting the appropriate sterling account of a non-resident. Imports.—Most imports from outside the Sterling Area require im- port licenses. Imports f rom the Sterling Area are freely authorized. Exchange is automatically granted for authorized imports. Invisibles.—Payments abroad require licenses. Foreign exchange is freely granted for expenses incidental to trade transactions, t rans fe rs abroad of dividends and other earnings due to non-residents. Foreign exchange for other payments to other territories of the Sterling Area is freely granted up to specified limits. Residents travelling to speci- fied countries are freely granted certain amounts in the appropriate currencies. Capital.—Transfers of capital require approval. Exchange Receipts Exports.—Practically all exports require licenses. The exchange pro- ceeds of all exports to outside the Sterling Area must be received (1) f rom an account in Au s t ra l ian pounds of a bank domiciled in the coun t ry to wh i ch the goods were exported, or (2) from a sterling ac- count appropr ia te to the country of destination, or (3) in appropriate fore ign exchange. The proceeds of exports to other parts of the Sterling Area must be received f rom a sterling account or in the exchange of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 55 the territory of destination. Foreign exchange receipts must be sur- rendered. Invisibles.—Exchange receipts in U.S. dollars, or Canadian dollars in banknote or check form, must be surrendered. All other exchange may be retained but its disposal requires license. Permission is given for foreign exchange to be retained on controlled accounts where it is required for operating purposes. Capital.—Investments of persons residing outside the Sterling Area must be made in foreign exchange appropriate to their country or sterling f rom an appropriate account. Exchange receipts from capital in U.S. dollars, or Canad ian dollars in banknote or check form, must be surrendered. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 56 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT ICELAND Date of Introduction October 2, 1931. Last ma jor revision June 5, 1947. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are quantitative. They are exercised through import licenses required for all imports and exchange licenses required for both import and non-trade payments. Foreign exchange must be sur- rendered. All exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: Icelandic Kronur 9.34107 = US$ 1. Off ic ial rates: buy ing IKr 9.3175, selling IKr 9.3650 per US$ 1. Exchange Payments Imports.—All imports require import and exchange licenses wh ich are issued in combined form. However, when sufficient exchange is not available, exchange is granted on the basis of established priorities. Invisibles.—Payments abroad require licenses. Foreign exchange is freely granted for expenses incidental to trade transactions. Residents travelling abroad may take with them a maximum of IKr 150 in fo r- eign banknotes and coins. Capital.—Transfers of capital require approval, which is only granted in exceptional circumstances. Exchange Receipts Exports. —All exports require licenses. Exchange receipts must be surrendered. Invisibles.—Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Shipowners and insurance companies are permitted to use a portion of their exchange earnings for operating purposes. Capital.—Exchange receipts from capital must be surrendered. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 57 INDIA Date of Introduction September 3, 1939. Last m a j or revision August 14, 1947. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are quantitative. They are exercised through import prohibitions, licenses required for non-prohibited imports, and through exchange licenses required for non-trade payments. Exchange is auto- matically granted for authorized imports. Foreign exchange from ex- ports must be surrendered. Exchange receipts f rom invisibles and capi- tal in Philippine pesos and U.S. dollars must be surrendered. Some exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: Rupees 4.76190= US$ 1. Official rates: buying Rs 4.75, selling Rs 4.775 per US$ 1. Exchange Control Territory- There are no exchange restrictions on transactions with A fghan is tan, Nepal, Pakistan, Tibet, and the French and Portuguese possessions in India. Nationals of Nepal and Tibet are regarded as residents of the exchange control territory of India for most exchange control purposes. Exchange Payments Payments to outside the Sterling Area must be effec ted either in the foreign exchange appropriate to the country of the recipient or by crediting the appropriate sterling account of a non-resident. Imports.—Certain imports from "hard" currency countries10 and all imports f rom the Union of South A f r i ca are prohibited. Other imports from the "hard" currency countries and most imports from other coun- tries also require import licenses. Exchange is automatically granted for authorized imports. Invisibles.—Payments abroad require licenses. Foreign exchange is freely granted for expenses incidental to trade transactions, transfers abroad of dividends and other earnings due to non-residents. Foreign, exchange for f am i ly ma in tenance is granted to residents who are not 10 In India, "hard" currency countries are listed as: Argentina, Belgian Mone- tary Area, Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Japan, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Philippine Republic, Switzerland, United States and posses- sions, Venezuela and Western Germany.' ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 58 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT permanently domiciled in India for remittances to their own coun- try. Foreign exchange is not granted for personal travel to the Philip- pines and the continent of America, with the exception of Brazil, Chile, Peru and Uruguay. Exchange for travel to Brazil, Chile, Peru and Uruguay requires license. Residents travelling to other countries are freely granted certain amounts in the appropriate currencies. Capital.—Transfers of capital require approval. Transfers due to persons residing in other parts of the Sterling Area are, in general, freely authorized. Capital transfers are au thor ized in limited amounts in cases of emigration. Exchange Receipts Exports. —A few commodities, mostly of a type essential to the na- tional economy, require export licenses. The exchange proceeds of all exports must be received (1) in appropriate foreign exchange, or (2) in sterling from an account appropriate to the country of destination, or (3) in rupees from the account of a bank in the country of destina- tion of the export. Exchange receipts in foreign exchange must be sur- rendered. Invisibles. —Exchange receipts from invisibles in Philippine pesos and U.S. dollars must be surrendered. All other exchange may be re- tained but its disposal requires license. Capital.—The investment of foreign capital requires approval. Non-Resident Accounts Non-resident accounts (see Exchange Control Territory above) of firms and individuals can be freely credited and debited with certain small amounts, but approval is required for all other entries. The non- resident accounts of banks are freely available (1) for transfer to other banks in the same country or monetary area; (2) for payment to residents of India for exports to their country or monetary area; and (3) for other payments to residents in India ' not exceeding Rs 20,000. All other payments from these accounts are sub ject to license. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 59 IRAQ Date of Introduction November 24, 1941. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are quantitative. They are exercised through import licenses required for all imports, and exchange licenses required for non-trade payments. Exchange is automatically granted for author- ized imports. Foreign exchange, other than Sterling Area currencies, arising from exports, must be surrendered. Exchange receipts from invisibles and capital in Swiss francs and U.S. dollars must be sur- rendered. A few exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: Iraqi Dinar 1 = US$ 2.80. Official rates: buying US$ 2.80875, selling US$ 2.785 per ID 1. Exchange Payments Payments to outside the Sterling Area must be effected either in foreign exchange appropriate to the country of the recipient or by crediting the appropriate sterling account of a non-resident. Imports.—All imports require import licenses. Exchange is auto- matically granted for authorized imports. Invisibles.—Payments to outside the Sterling Area require licenses. Foreign exchange is freely granted for expenses incidental to trade transactions. Foreign exchange is freely granted to foreign nationals resident in Iraq, up to certain limits, for the purposes of family main- tenance and foreign travel. Capital.—Transfers of capital to outside the Sterling Area require approval. Exchange Receipts Exports.—Exports of essential goods in short supply require licenses. The exchange proceeds of all exports to outside the Sterling Area must be received (1) in acceptable foreign exchange, or (2) in sterling from an account appropriate to the country of destination, or (3) in the case of a limited number of non-Sterling Area countries, in Iraqi cur- rency from a non-resident account. Foreign exchange proceeds, in other than Sterling Area currencies, must be surrendered. Invisibles.—Exchange receipts from invisibles in Swiss francs and U.S. dollars must be surrendered. Capital.—Exchange receipts f rom capital in Swiss francs and U.S. dollars must be surrendered. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 60 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA Dale of Introduction September 9, 1939. Ma jor revisions November 5, 1948 and July 1, 1949. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions' are quantitative. They are exercised through import prohibitions, import licenses required for non-prohibited imports, and through exchange licenses required for non-trade payments. Exchange is automatically granted for authorized imports. Foreign exchange, other than Sterling Area currencies, must be surrendered. A few ex- ports require licenses. Exchange Control Territory There are no exchange or trade restrictions between the Union of South Afr ica and the Mandatory Territory of Southwest A f r ica, Basuto- land, Swaziland and the Bechuanaland Protectorate. These terri- tories may be regarded as fo rm ing with the Union of South A f r ica a single exchange control territory. Exchange Rates Par va lue: South A f r i c an Pound 1 = US$ 2.80. Official rates: buying US$2.80125, selling US$ 2.78375 per £SA 1. Exchange Payments Payments to outside the Sterling Area must be effected either in the foreign exchange appropriate to the country of the recipient or by crediting the appropriate sterling account of a non-resident. Imports.—The import of a considerable number of non-essential goods is prohibited. All non-prohibited imports require import licenses. Certain imports are licensed only f rom countries other than "hard" currency countries.11 Exchange is automatically granted for authorized imports. Invisibles. —Payments to outside the Sterling Area require licenses which are freely granted for most invisibles. Non-sterling exchange for film royalties and travelling purposes is granted in limited amounts. 11 In the Union of South Africa, "hard" currency countries are listed as: Bel- gian Monetary Area, Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippine Republic, Switzerland, United States and possessions, and Venezuela. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 61 Capital.—Transfers of capital to outside the Sterling Area require approval. Foreign capital may be repatriated where the capital was originally provided in an appropriate manner (see Exchange Receipts —Capital be low ). Cap i tal t rans fe rs are authorized in limited amounts in cases of emigration to countries outside the Sterling Area. Exchange Receipts Exports.—Exports of a few goods in short supply require licenses. The exchange proceeds of all exports to outside the Sterling Area must be received (1) in appropriate foreign exchange or (2) in sterling f rom an account appropriate to the country of destination. All non-sterling exchange must be surrendered. Invisibles.—Exchange receipts f rom invisibles, other than Sterling Area currencies, must be surrendered. Capital.—Most foreign exchange receipts, other than Sterling Area currencies, must be surrendered. Capital f r om outside the Sterling Area must be received (1) in app rop r ia te foreign exchange or (2) in s ter l ing f rom an account appropriate to the country of the rem i t ter. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 2. Exchange Controls and Restrictions in Europe Austria Belgium-Luxembourg (Belgian Monetary A rea) Czechoslovakia Denmark Finland France Greece Italy Netherlands Norway Poland Turkey Yugoslavia Page No. 65 67 70 71 72 73 76 78 80 82 84 85 86 63 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 65 AUSTRIA Date of Introduction October 9, 1931. Reintroduced af ter the war, July 25, 1946. The exchange rate system was revised November 25, 1949. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are quantitative and composite. They are exercised through import licenses required for most imports, through exchange licenses required for those imports free of import licenses and for non- trade payments, and through penalty selling rates. Exchange is granted automatically for licensed imports. Foreign exchange must be 40% surrendered, the remaining 60% must be used by the holder for authorized imports or surrendered. Foreign exchange f rom invisi- bles and capital must be surrendered. A multiple currency practice results on the buying side f rom the application of different exchange rates. Some exports require licenses. Exchange Rates No par value for the Schilling. Basic rates: buying S 14.23, selling S 14.57 per US$ 1. Other buying and selling rates have been established, and the use of foreign ex- change retained by exporters for imports at differential rates yields other effective rates (see Table of Exchange Rates be low). Exchange Payments Imports.—Most imports require import licenses. Certain imports are freely permitted, particularly in relation to trade with O.E.E.C. countries. Exchange is automatically granted for licensed imports. Payments for those imports f ree of import license require exchange licenses. Essential imports are effec ted at the S 14.57 rate. Imports other than essential or luxury goods are effec ted at the S 21.53 rate. Luxury imports are effected at the S 26.17 rate. Invisibles.—All payments abroad require licenses. Foreign ex- change is freely granted for expenses incidental to trade transactions at the rates corresponding to the related imports and exports. All other exchange payments for invisibles must be effected at the S 26.17 rate. Residents travelling abroad may take a maximum of S200 in Aus- trian currency or S 190 in Austrian currency and the equivalent of S 10 in foreign currency. Non-residents may take with them a maxi- mum of S 20 in Austrian currency. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 66 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT Capital.—Transfers of capital require approval and must be ef- fected at the S 26.17 rate. Exchange Receipts Exports. —Some exports require licenses. Exchange proceeds from exports must be 40% surrendered at the S 14.23 rate. The remaining 60% of export proceeds must be used by the exporter for authorized imports or surrendered at the S 25.83 rate. Invisibles.—Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered at the S 25.83 rate. Persons may bring in a maximum of S 200 in Aus- trian currency. Capital.—The investment of foreign capital requires approval. Ex- change receipts from capital must be surrendered at the S 25.83 rate. Table of Exchange Rates (Schillings per U.S. Dollar) Buying 14.23 (Basic Exchange Rate) 21.19 Exports. (40% at the S 14.23 rate and 60% at the S 25.83 rate) Selling 14.57 Essential imports. (Basic Exchange Rate) 21.53 All imports other than essentials and luxuries, (40% at the S 1453 rate and 60% at the S 25.83 rate) 26.17 Luxury imports. Invisibles and capital. (Premium Rate) 25.83 Invisibles and capital. (Premium Rate) Note: Other effective rates result when the exporter uses all or part of his 60% retention quota to pay for his imports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 67 BELGIAN MONETARY AREA Date of Introduction In Belgium, May 10, 1940. During the war, exchange restrictions were separately applied in Belgium and Luxembourg. The present exchange restrictions were established by a number of laws issued in 1944 and 1945. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are quantitative. They are exercised through import licenses required for certain imports and exchange licenses required for most non-trade payments. Exchange is automatically granted for authorized imports, unless payments are to be made by crediting appropr ia te non-resident accounts. Foreign exchange from commercial transactions and f rom certain invisibles must be surrendered. Other exchange proceeds may be retained but their disposal requires license. Many exports require licenses. Exchange Control Territory Belgium, Luxembourg, the Belgian Congo and the Mandatory Terri- tory of Ruanda-Urundi constitute the "Belgian Monetary Area." The "Belgium-Luxembourg Economic Union" constitutes a single exchange control territory, as Luxembourg in agreement with Belgium introduces and applies in Luxembourg the same control legislation as exists in Belgium. Belgian and Luxembourg residents have the same exchange rights and obligations in both countries. Although the Belgian Congo and the Manda tory Territory of Ruanda -U rundi have an exchange control system of their own, very few restrictions are in force between the Belgium-Luxembourg Economic Union on the one side, and the Belgian Congo and the Mandatory Territory of Ruanda-Urundi on the other. Foreign exchange reserves of the Belgian Monetary Area are managed centrally. The Belgian Monetary Area is treated as a single exchange control territory in relation to countries with which Belgium has concluded payments agreements. Exchange Rates Par values: Belgian Francs and Luxembourg Francs 50 = US$ 1. Buying and selling rates for the Swiss f r anc and for the U.S. dollar are determined every day through the exchange market in which the banks may operate to e f fect au thor ized transactions; these rates are operative within off ic ial limits corresponding to Bfr 49.50 and 50.50 per ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 68 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT US$ 1. Fixed buy ing and selling rates are established for other offi- cially quoted currencies. Exchange Payments Imports. —Imports comprising about one-f if th of all goods on the custom ta r i ff require import licenses. Exchange is automatically granted for authorized imports in an appropriate currency, or pay- ment is made to a non-resident account of the country of the exporter. Imports f rom Canada, Switzerland and the United States are paid for in the respective currencies of the exporting countries. Invisibles.—Many non-trade payments abroad require licenses. United States and Swiss residents are freely permitted to t ran s fer cur- rent earnings to their respective countries. Payments abroad and credits to appropriate non-resident accounts are permitted for ex- penses incidental to trade up to 12% of the value of a commodity. Transfers abroad in connection with expenses arising f rom the re- export trade and warehousing are made in accordance with the import or export license. Resident insurance companies have considerable in- dependence in their exchange operations. Remittances for certain other purposes (e.g., subscriptions, various fees, charitable remittances, etc.) are freely authorized up to specified limits. A maximum of fo r- eign exchange equivalent to Bfr 1,000 per day up to the limit of Bfr 10,000 per person (B fr 30,000 in the case of travel to Argentina, Co- lombia, Uruguay and the United States) is automatically granted to residents travelling abroad; in addition, residents travelling abroad may take with them Bfr 10,000 in Belgian or Luxembourg banknotes or the equivalent in foreign banknotes. Non-resident travellers may take with them up to Bfr 10,000 in Belgian or Luxembourg banknotes or the equivalent in foreign banknotes. Earnings from Belgian, Luxembourg and colonial securities in an unblocked dossier and earnings from other investments are credited to appropriate non-resident accounts. Payments f rom these accounts may be made (1) to residents for payments in the Belgium-Luxem- bourg Economic Union, or (2) to other non-resident accounts related to the same country. Capital.—The investment of foreign capital after September 1, 1947 made in foreign currency or out of balances on certain non-resident accounts can be converted into the currency originally provided, or recredited to an appropriate non-resident account. The investment of capital abroad by residents requires approval. All deposits of securi- ties held in Belgium or in Luxembourg for non-residents are designated as "Blocked Foreign Dossiers." These dossiers are unblocked auto- matically in the case of United Kingdom and United States residents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 69 Dossiers of non-residents of other countries are unblocked subject to arrangements with their countries of residence or subject to an individ- ual permit. Exchange Receipts Exports.—Exports comprising about one-half of all goods on the custom tariff require licenses. Exchange proceeds of all exports must be surrendered in an appropriate currency, unless payment is received from a non-resident account of the country of the importer. Exchange proceeds f rom exports to Canada, Switzerland and the United States must be surrendered in Canadian dollars, Swiss f rancs and U.S. dollars, respectively, unless the payment may be made by debiting an appro- priate non-resident account. However, payments for exports can be made from non-resident "Banknote Accounts." Proceeds of re-exports originating f rom the dollar area or Switzerland must be obtained in U.S. dollars or in Swiss francs, respectively, and surrendered. Invisibles.—Only exchange proceeds f rom commercial transactions must be surrendered. All other exchange proceeds may be retained, but their disposal requires license. Capital.—Residents had to declare but not surrender their foreign assets held prior to 1944. The disposal of such assets requires license. Residents may collect proceeds from such assets, and exchange or sell foreign securities, and invest the proceeds arising from the sale of such securities. The disposal of foreign exchange arising f rom resident in- vestments abroad requires license. Domestic Banknotes Belgian and Luxembourg banknotes may be freely brought in by non-residents and used for (1) purchases of Belgian, Luxembourg or foreign securities, real estate and mortgages in Belgium or Luxem- bourg, and for all costs connected with such investments; and (2) travel and maintenance expenses in Belgium or Luxembourg. Belgian banknotes sent by foreign correspondents of Belgian or Luxembourg banks can be credited to "Banknote Accounts." Balances on these accounts can be used for any payments to residents, and are transfer- able to the accounts of other non-residents anywhere. Belgian bank- notes sent by U.S. and Swiss banks on account of United States and Swiss residents are freely convertible into U.S. dollars and Swiss francs, respectively. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 70 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT CZECHOSLOVAKIA Date of Introduction October 31, 1931. Last m a jor revision April 11, 1946. Nature of Restrictive System Authorizations of imports and exports are governed by the economic plan. Foreign trade is organized on the basis of monopolistic trade or- ganizations dealing in specific commodities. Exchange is granted for all authorized payments. Foreign exchange must be surrendered. Exchange Rates Par value: Czechoslovak Koruny 50 = US$ 1. Official rates: buying Kcs 49.85, selling Kcs 50.15 per US$ 1. Exchange Payments Imports.—Authorizations of imports are governed by the economic plan. Exchange is automatically granted for authorized imports. Invisibles.—Payments abroad require licenses. Residents travelling abroad may take with them a maximum of Kcs 500 monthly in domes- tic or foreign currency. Non-residents travelling abroad may take with them Kcs 500 monthly in Czechoslovak banknotes and coins. Capital. —Transfers of capital require approval. Exchange Receipts Exports.—Authorizations of exports are governed by the economic plan. Exchange receipts must be surrendered. Invisibles. —Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Persons may bring in a maximum of Kcs 500 monthly in Czechoslovak banknotes and coins. Capital.—The investment of foreign capital requires approval. Ex- change receipts from capital must be surrendered. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 71 DENMARK Date of Introduction November 18, 1931. Last m a j or revision November 14, 1949. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are quantitative. They are exercised through import licenses required for the greater part of imports, and exchange licenses required for non-trade payments. Exchange is automatically granted for authorized imports. Foreign exchange must be surrendered. Cer- tain exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par va lue: Danish Kroner 6.90714 = US$ 1. Off ic ial rates: buying DKr 6.895, selling DKr 6.92 per US$ 1. Exchange Payments Imports.—The greater part of imports require import licenses. Cer- tain imports are freely permitted, particularly in relation to trade with O.E.E.C. countries. Exchange is automatically granted for authorized imports. Invisibles.—Payments abroad requ ire licenses, which are freely granted for most payments. In certain cases payments are effec ted in accordance with general licenses by which exchange is freely granted up to certain limits in specified currencies, or with individual licenses. Persons travelling abroad may take with them a maximum of DKr 100 in Danish banknotes. In addition, residents travelling to specified countries are free ly granted certain amoun ts in the appropriate cur- rencies. Capital.—Transfers of capital require approval. Transfers of pro- ceeds f rom ma tured government bonds and municipal loans, and con- trac tual repayments of pr iva te mortgages are free ly authorized. Exchange Receipts Exports. —Certain exports require licenses. Proceeds of exports must be obtained f rom a non-resident account appropriate to the country to wh ich the goods are destined, or in appropriate foreign exchange which must be surrendered. Invisibles. —All exchange receipts must be obtained from a non- resident account appropr ia te to the coun t ry of remittance, or in appro- priate fore ign exchange which must be surrendered. Shipping and insurance companies are permitted to use their receipts of foreign ex- change for payments necessary for their operations. Persons may bring in a max imum of DKr 100 in Danish banknotes. Capital. —The investment of foreign capital requires approval. Ex- change receipts from capital must be surrendered. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 72 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT FINLAND Date of Introduction October 26,1939. Revised April 23, 1948. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are quantitative. They are exercised through import licenses required for all imports and exchange licenses required for non-trade payments. Exchange is automatically granted for authorized imports. Foreign exchange must be surrendered. All exports, except round timber, require licenses. Exchange Rates No par value for the Markka. Official rates: buying Fmk229, selling Fmk231 per US$ 1. Exchange Payments Imports.—All imports require import licenses. Exchange is automati- cally granted for authorized imports. Invisibles.—Payments abroad require licenses. Persons travelling abroad may take with them a maximum of Fmk 15,000 in Finnish banknotes per month. Capital.—Transfers of capital require approval. Exchange Receipts Exports.—All exports, except round timber, require licenses. Ex- change receipts must be surrendered. Invisibles.—Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Persons may bring in a maximum of Fmk 15,000 in Finnish banknotes per month. Capital.—The investment of foreign capital requires approval. Ex- change receipts from capital must be surrendered. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 73 FRANCE Date of Introduction September 9, 1939. Last ma jor revision September 20, 1949. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are quantitative. They are exercised through import licenses required for most imports, and through exchange licenses re- quired for non-trade payments. Exchange is automatically granted for authorized imports. Foreign exchange in currencies quoted in the official free market, with certain exceptions, must be sold in that market; other foreign exchange, with certain exceptions, must be sur- rendered. Some exports require licenses. Exchange Rates No par value for the French franc. There are two types of exchange rates: (1) free fluctuating market rates for Belgian francs, Djibouti francs, Portuguese escudos, Swiss f rancs and U.S. dollars, currently at fr 349 per U.S. dollar; (2) official rates for most other currencies (except the Italian lira and the Spanish peseta) calculated on the basis of their official U.S. dollar rate mul- tiplied by the monthly average of the U.S. dollar rate in the French free market. Such rates are officially altered if the free market quota- tion of the U.S. dollar exceeds certain percentage fluctuations. The official rates for Italian lire are determined by the quotations of the U.S. dollar in the free markets of both countries. The rate of the Spanish peseta is bilaterally determined. Exchange Control Territory The French Franc Area is constituted by: 1. Metropolitan France —Continental France (including terri- tories incorporated into France in accordance with the Peace Treaty with Italy), Corsica and Algeria. The Princi- pality of Monaco and the Saar are entirely incorporated into the currency system of Continental France. 2. French Overseas Territories —Morocco and Tunisia, French West Afr ica, French Equatorial A f r ica, Cameroon and Togo, Madagascar and its dependencies, Reunion, French Guiana, Martinique, Guadeloupe, St. Pierre and Miquelon, Indo- China, New Caledonia, the French Establishments in Oceania, the Condominium of New Hebrides and the French Estab- lishments in India. Local currencies of these territories are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 74 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT pegged to the French f ranc at a fixed parity, with the excep- tion of the rupee of the French Establishments in India. French Somaliland is outside the French Franc Area and maintains no exchange restrictions. 3. Lebanon. Transactions within the Area are formally subject to exchange con- trols; however, restrictions are either not applied, or are applied only to minor parts of the Area. Foreign exchange reserves of the Franc Area are managed centrally. Exchange Payments Foreign exchange in currencies quoted in the free market must be obtained in that market, while foreign exchange in all other currencies is acquired at the official rate. When the French f ranc is stipulated as the currency of payment, payments are made by crediting special non-resident accounts in francs. Imports.—Most imports require import licenses. Certain imports are freely permitted, particularly in relation to trade with O.E.E.C. countries. Exchange is automatically granted for authorized imports. Invisibles. —Payments abroad require licenses which are freely granted for most invisibles, with the exception of certain payments to a few countries. Persons travelling abroad may take with them a maximum of fr 10,000 in French banknotes. In addition, residents travelling abroad are freely granted certain amounts in the appropriate currencies.. Capital. —New investments, made after September 1st, 1949, may be liquidated and freely repatriated provided the same treatment is granted to investments of French residents in the country of the for- eign investor. So fa r, this provision applies to residents of Belgium, Switzerland and the United States making investments in France in their respective currencies. Transfers abroad of proceeds from the realization of securities owned by non-residents may be effected only in accordance with arrangements with the countries concerned. Bank balances, listed securities and real estate held by non-residents may be freely transferred between residents of the same country or monetary area or utilized for specified expenses and investments in France. Other transactions involving the above assets as well as those concerning other assets held in France by non-residents are subject to license. All transfers of capital by residents require approval. Exchange Receipts Exchange receipts must be obtained in appropriate foreign exchange. With certain exceptions, exchange receipts in currencies quoted in the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 75 free market must be sold in that market; exchange receipts in other currencies must be surrendered. Receipts from non-residents are permitted from appropriate non-resident accounts when the French f ranc is stipulated as the currency of payment. Exports.—Some exports require licenses. 15% of export proceeds in U.S. dollars and 10% of export proceeds in other currencies or francs originating from non-resident accounts can be retained by exporters to cover incidental costs and expenses connected with the maintenance and expansion of their export business. Invisibles.—Hotels dealing with foreign tourists are permitted to retain a percentage of exchange proceeds under conditions similar to those applicable to exporters. Under a general license, persons may bring in a maximum of fr 60,000 in French banknotes. Capital.—The investment of foreign capital requires approval in most cases. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 76 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT GREECE Date of Introduction September 28, 1931. The exchange rate system was revised October 31, 1947. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are quantitative. They are exercised through import licenses required for all imports, and exchange licenses required for non-trade payments. Exchange is automatically granted for author- ized imports. Foreign exchange must be surrendered. All exports re- quire licenses. Exchange Rates No par value for the Drachma. Official exchange rates: buying Dr 4,980, selling Dr 5,020 per US$ 1. The exchange certificate rate (Dr 10,000) plus the official rates yield effective rates fixed at buying Dr 14,980, selling Dr 15,020 per US$ 1 for all transactions. Exchange Payments Imports.—All imports require import licenses. Certain imports are freely permitted, particularly in relation to trade with O.E.E.C. coun- tries. Exchange is automatically granted for authorized imports. Im- ports under clearing and barter arrangements do not require exchange certificates but are subject to levies which correspond closely to the selling rate of the exchange certificates. Differential levies are applied to certain imports. Invisibles.—Payments abroad require licenses. Foreign exchange is freely granted for expenses incidental to trade transactions. Per- sons travelling abroad may take with them a maximum of Dr 50,000 in Greek banknotes. Capital.—Transfers of capital require approval. Interest and amortization service of Greek securities owned by non-residents is suspended. Exchange Receipts Exports.—All exports require licenses, mainly for the purpose of in- suring the surrender of exchange receipts in the appropriate currency. Exchange proceeds of exports must be surrendered. Exports under clearing and barter arrangements are not eligible for exchange certifi- cates, but receive subsidies corresponding closely to the buying rate ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 77 of the exchange certificates. Differential subsidies are applied to cer- tain exports. Invisibles.—Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Persons may bring in a maximum of Dr 50,000 in Greek banknotes. Capital. —The investment of foreign capital requires approval. Ex- change receipts from capital must be surrendered. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 78 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT ITALY Date of Introduction September 29, 1931. Revised September 19, 1949. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are quantitative. They are exercised through import licenses required for most imports, and exchange licenses required for non-trade payments. Exchange is automatically granted for author- ized imports. Foreign exchange in Swiss francs and U.S. dollars must be 50% surrendered, the remaining 50% must be used by holders for authorized payments or sold on the free market. Foreign exchange in other currencies must be entirely surrendered. Many exports require licenses. Exchange Control Territory The Free Territory of Trieste is included in the exchange control territory of Italy. Exchange Rates No par value for the Italian lira. There is a free fluctuating market in Swiss f rancs and U.S. dollars, currently at Lit 624 per U.S. dollar. The official rate of the day is the average of the closing rates of the free markets in Milan and Rome for the same day. The surrender of 50% of exchange receipts in Swiss francs and U.S. dollars yields an effective rate. The official rates for French francs are determined by the quotation of the U.S. dollar in the free markets of both countries. The official rates for Danish kroner are determined on the basis of their quotation in London and the official sterling rate in Italy. The official rates for most other currencies are calculated on the basis of their official U.S. dollar rates and the official U.S. dollar rate in Italy. Exchange Payments Swiss francs and U.S. dollars must be acquired on the free market, while foreign exchange in other currencies is acquired at the official rate. Imports.—Most imports require import licenses. Certain imports are freely permitted, particularly in relation to trade with O.E.E.C. countries. Exchange is automatically granted for authorized imports. Invisibles.—Payments abroad require licenses. Foreign exchange is freely granted for expenses incidental to trade transactions. Persons ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 79 travelling abroad may take with them a maximum of Lit 10,000 in Italian banknotes. Favorable treatment is accorded to earnings on investments in Italy made in Swiss francs and U.S. dollars. Capital.—Transfers of capital require approval. Transfers of for- eign capital originally invested in Swiss francs and U.S. dollars, on or a f ter April 7, 1948, may be made as follows: (1) earnings are freely transferab le in the currency originally surrendered, provided that the rate of earnings does not exceed the legal rate by 80 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT NETHERLANDS Date of Introduction May 10,1940. Last ma jor revision October 20,1945. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are quantitative. They are exercised through import licenses required for most imports and exchange licenses required for non-trade payments. Exchange is automatically granted for author- ized imports. Foreign exchange, with certain exceptions, must be surrendered. All exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: Netherlands Guilders 3.80 = US$ 1. Official rates: buying f 3.795, selling f 3.805 per US$ 1. Exchange Control Territory While the Netherlands and its overseas territories do not operate identical exchange restrictions, they constitute in their payments rela- tions with third countries with which the Netherlands have concluded monetary agreements, a single exchange control territory, the "Nether- lands Monetary Area." Current payments between various territories of the Netherlands Monetary Area are effected through controlled accounts. Exchange Payments Imports.—Most imports require import licenses. Certain imports are freely permitted, particularly in relation to trade with O.E.E.C. coun- tries. Exchange is automatically granted for authorized imports. Invisibles. —Payments abroad require licenses. Foreign exchange is freely granted for expenses incidental to trade transactions. Other exchange payments are effected either in accordance with general licenses by which exchange for certain purposes is freely granted up to certain limits in specified currencies, or with individual licenses. Resi- dents travelling abroad may take with them a maximum of f 50 in Netherlands banknotes which must be reimported. In addition, resi- dents travelling to specified countries are freely granted certain amounts in the appropriate currencies. Non-residents may take with them a maximum of f 100 in Netherlands banknotes. Capital.—Transfers of capital require approval which is granted only in exceptional cases. Transfers to specified countries with which special agreements are in effect are freely authorized. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 81 Exchange Receipts Exports. —All exports require licenses mainly for the purpose of in- suring the surrender of exchange receipts in the appropriate currency. Foreign exchange from exports must be surrendered, but 10% of export proceeds in Canadian and U.S. dollars may be retained and utilized by exporters for authorized payments. Invisibles.—Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Shipping companies can keep accounts in foreign exchange abroad for operating purposes. Non-residents may bring in a maximum of f 100 in Netherlands banknotes and any amount of foreign banknotes, which may be sold only to an authorized bank. Capital.—The investment of foreign capital requires approval. Ex- change receipts f rom capital must be surrendered. Foreign Banknotes Authorized banks in the Netherlands are permitted to purchase from persons coming from abroad foreign banknotes, other than United States and Swiss banknotes, at rates not exceeding official ceiling rates. They are authorized to sell them to travellers going abroad. United States and Swiss banknotes are only purchased at official rates. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 82 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT NORWAY Date of Introduction May 18, 1940. Revised November 10, 1944 and July 19, 1946. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are quantitative. They are exercised through import licenses required for most imports and exchange licenses required for non-trade payments. Exchange is automatically granted for author- ized imports. Foreign exchange, with certain exceptions, must be sur- rendered. Exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: Norwegian Kroner 7.14286 = US$ 1. Official rates: buying NKr 7.135, selling NKr 7.150 per US$ 1. Exchange Payments Imports. —Most imports require import licenses. Certain imports are freely permitted, particularly in relation to trade with O.E.E.C. countries. Exchange is automatically granted for authorized imports. Invisibles.—Payments abroad require licenses. Foreign exchange is freely granted for expenses incidental to trade transactions and for interest and dividends on securities acquired by non-residents prior to April 9, 1940. Other exchange payments are effected either in accord- ance with general licenses by which exchange for certain purposes is freely granted up to certain limits in specified currencies, or with individual licenses. Persons travelling abroad may take with them a maximum of NKr 50 in Norwegian banknotes. In addition, residents travelling to specified countries are freely granted certain amounts in the appropriate currencies. Capital.—Transfers of capital require approval. Transfers of cer- tain capital assets on a compensation basis to specified countries with which special agreements are in effect are freely authorized. Exchange Receipts Exports.—Exports require licenses mainly for the purpose of insur- ing the surrender of exchange receipts in the appropriate currency. Foreign exchange from exports must be surrendered, but 10% of the export proceeds in Canadian dollars, Swiss francs and United States dollars may be retained and used by the exporters, subject to license, for the purchase of goods, such as raw materials and machinery, for their own use. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 83 Invisibles.—Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Shipping and insurance companies can keep accounts in foreign ex- change abroad for operating purposes. Persons may bring in a maxi- mum of NKr 50 in Norwegian banknotes. Capital.—The investment of foreign capital requires approval which is usually granted. Exchange receipts from capital must be surrendered. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 84 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT POLAND Date of Introduction April 26, 1936. Reintroduced a f t er the war, August 6, 1945. Nature of Restrictive System Authorizations of imports and exports are governed by the economic plan. Foreign trade is organized on the basis of monopolistic trade organizations dealing in specific commodities. Exchange is automati- cally granted for authorized payments. Foreign exchange must be surrendered. Exchange Rates No par value for the Zloty. Official rates: buying Z1398, selling Z1402 per US$ 1. These rates are not generally applicable to trade transactions, which are sub ject to various imputed rates. Exchange Payments Imports.—Authorizations of imports are governed by the economic plan. Exchange is automatically granted for authorized imports. Invisibles.—Payments abroad require licenses. Persons travelling abroad may take with them a max imum of Zl 4,000 in Polish bank- notes per month. Capital.—Transfers of capital require approval. Exchange Receipts Exports. —Authorizations of exports are governed by the economic plan. Exchange receipts must be surrendered. Invisibles.—Exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered. Persons may bring in a max imum of Zl 4,000 in Polish banknotes. In addition, residents may bring w i th them a max imum of US$ 1,000, or the equivalent in foreign banknotes, without the obligation of sur- render. Capital.—The investment of foreign capital requires approval. Ex- change receipts from capital must be surrendered. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 85 TURKEY Date of Introduction February 20, 1930. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are quantitative. They are exercised through import licenses and exchange licenses required for both import and non-trade payments. Foreign exchange must be surrendered. Many exports re- quire licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: Turkish Liras 2.80 = US$ 1. Official rates: buying LT2.80, selling LT2.825 per US$ 1. Exchange Payments Imports.—Imports require import and exchange licenses which are issued in accordance with three priority groups, namely: essentials, various consumption goods, and semi-luxuries and luxuries. Certain imports from O.E.E.C. countries are freely permitted. Invisibles.—Payments abroad require licenses. Persons travelling abroad may take with them a maximum of LT 100 in Turkish bank- notes. Capital.—Transfers of capital require approval. Non-resident assets in Turkey can be used for approved payments for exports of specified commodities and for expenses in Turkey. Exchange Receipts Exports.—Many exports require licenses. Exchange proceeds must be received in an appropriate currency and must be surrendered. Invisibles.— Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Persons may bring in a maximum of LT 100 in Turkish banknotes. Capital.—The investment of foreign capital requires approval. Ex- change receipts from capital must be surrendered. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 86 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT YUGOSLAVIA Date of Introduction October 7, 1931. Revised October 25, 1946 and February 4, 1948. Nature of Restrictive System Authorizations of imports and exports are governed by the economic plan. Foreign trade is organized on the basis of monopolistic trade organizations dealing in specific commodities. Import licenses are re- quired for all imports, and exchange licenses are required for both im- port and non-trade payments. Foreign exchange must be surrendered. All exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par va lue: Yugoslav Dinars 50 = US$ 1. Official rates: buying and selling at the par value. Exchange Payments Imports.—Authorizations of imports are governed by the economic plan. An exchange license is required in addition to an import license. Invisibles.—Payments abroad require licenses. Persons travelling abroad may take with them a maximum of dinars 500 in Yugoslav banknotes. Capital.—Transfers of capital require approval. Exchange Receipts Exports. —Authorizations of exports are governed by the economic plan. All exports require licenses. Exchange receipts must be sur- rendered. Invisibles.—Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Persons may bring in a maximum of dinars 500 in Yugoslav bank- notes. Capital.-—The investment of foreign capital requires approval. Exchange receipts from capital must be surrendered. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 3. Exchange Controls and Restrictions in the Western Hemisphere Bolivia Brazil Canada Chile Colombia Costa Rica Cuba Dominican Republic Ecuador Honduras Nicaragua Paraguay Peru Uruguay Venezuela Page No. 89 92 94 96 99 103 106 107 108 I ll 112 114 116 118 120 s; ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 89 BOLIVIA Date of Introduction In 1932. Last m a jor revision in October 1949. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are predominantly composite. They are exercised through import licenses granted up to the limits of individual exchange quotas, exchange licenses required for non-trade payments, and through multiple currency practices consisting of fixed penalty selling rates, exchange taxes and a free market. Foreign exchange, with certain exceptions, must be surrendered. A multiple currency practice results on the buying side f rom the application of d ifferent exchange rates. All exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par va lue: Bolivianos 42 = US$ 1. Basic official rates: buying Bs 42.00, selling Bs 42.42 per US$ 1. The fixed rates plus exchange taxes and the surrender of various portions of exchange at different rates yield various effective rates (see Table of Exchange Rates be low ). Exchange Payments Imports.—All imports require import licenses. Essential and non- essential imports are granted import licenses up to the limits of in- dividual exchange quotas, computed on the basis of the importer's pre- vious imports and other criteria, and are effected at the Bs 42.42 and the Bs 56.05 rates, respectively, and in addition are subject to a tax of Bs 1 per U.S. dollar of the import value. Payments for luxury im- ports are made at the Bs 116.20 ra te; no tax is levied on luxury imports. Invisibles.—Payments abroad require licenses. Transfers of earn- ings up to 15% annually of registered capital and remittances to students may be effected at the Bs 42.42 rate. In certain cases, re- mittances to residents abroad and travel for health reasons may be made at the Bs 42.42 rate. Other authorized payments may be made at the Bs 116.20 rate. Capital.—Transfers of capital require approval. Transfers for amortization up to 30% annually of registered foreign capital may be effected at the Bs 42.42'rate. Investments abroad by residents may be effected at the Bs 116.20 rate. Transfers of non-registered capital may be effected at the Bs 116.20 rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 90 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT Exchange Receipts Exports. —All exports require licenses which are granted auto- matically if the exporter agrees to surrender the percentage of the exchange required by law. Specified percentages of exchange receipts f rom exports of tin up to the limits of certain quotas must be sur- rendered at the Bs 42 rate and the remainder may be retained. As exports of tin exceed these quotas, decreasing percentages of the ex- change proceeds must be surrendered at the Bs 55.50 rate and the remainder may be retained. The percentages of the exchange proceeds from the export of other minerals which must be surrendered at the several buying rates vary with world prices and the metal content of the ores. For wo lfram, copper, lead and antimony exports the appli- cable rates are Bs 42 and Bs 55.50; for zinc exports the appli- cable rate is Bs 55.50; for silver exports the applicable rate is Bs 42. Any foreign exchange f rom exports of minerals other than tin which need not be surrendered at the above rates must be used by the ex- porters to cover expenditures abroad, or surrendered at the Bs 115 rate. For non-mineral exports the percentages of exchange which must be surrendered at the Bs 42 rate vary with each product. The remainder must be used by the exporter to cover expenditures abroad or sur- rendered at the Bs 115 rate. Invisibles.—Exchange from invisibles must be surrendered at the Bs 115 rate. Capital.—The investment of foreign capital must be registered and surrendered at the Bs 42 rate in order to obtain a transfer guarantee. Non-registered capital may be sold at the Bs 115 rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 91 Table of Exchange Rates (Bolivianos per U.S. Dollar) Buying 42.00 Minimum percentages of all exports, except zinc. Regis- tered capital. 42.42 43.42 (Bs42.42 rate plus Bs 1 tax) 56.05 57.05 (nominal rate of Bs 56.05 plus Bs 1 tax) 116.20 (Rate peri- odically al- tered by the authorities) 55.50 Tin exports in excess of quotas, within surrender re- quirements. All zinc exports within surrender require- ments. Percentages of other mineral exports within sur- render requirements. 115.00 Required percentages of cer- (Rate peri- tain mineral exports. Re- odically al- tained exchange from all ex- al- tered by the ports other than tin, if not authorities) used by exporters. Invisi- bles. Non-registered capital. Note: The above rates are not usually effective buying rates for exports. The effective buying rates for export pro- ceeds are determined by the percentages at which particular proceeds are surren- dered at the above rates. Selling Government pay- ments. Students, and licensed t ravel for health purposes. Reg- istered capital. Essential imports. Non-essential imports. Luxury imports. Invisibles other than those paid at the Bs 42.42 rate. Non- registered capital. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 92 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT BRAZIL Date of Introduction In 1931. Last ma jor revision in October 1949. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are predominantly composite. They are exercised through import licenses granted up to the limits of individual import quotas, through exchange licenses required for both import and non- trade payments, and incidentally through a multiple currency practice consisting of an exchange tax on most payments. Foreign exchange must be surrendered. All exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: Cruzeiros 18.50= US$ 1. Official rates: buying Cr 18.38, selling Cr 18.72 per US$ 1. A tax of 5% imposed on most remittances yields an effective selling rate of Cr 19.656 per U.S. dollar (see Table of Exchange Rates be low ). Exchange Payments Payments abroad require licenses. Practically all payments are subject to a 5% tax. These licenses are granted on the basis of an exchange priority system comprised of five categories to which varying percentages of exchange are allocated. These categories are: 1. "Super essential" imports such as agricultural machinery, fuel, oil and scarce metals. 2. Essential imports. 3. Transfers of capital, profits, interests and dividends up to certain limits. 4. Necessary and non-essential imports. 5. Travel and maintenance. Imports.—All imports with the exception of specified essential com- modities require import licenses. These licenses are granted up to the limits .of individual import quotas computed on the basis of the firm's previous imports and other criteria. Import licenses to import goods payable in "hard" currencies 12 are issued on the basis of an exchange budget and only if the goods cannot be paid for in "soft" currencies. Exchange is granted to holders of import licenses in accordance with the priority schedule outlined above. Certain essential imports are not subject to the tax, and payments are made at the Cr 18.72 rate. 12 In Brazil "hard" currencies are listed as: Canadian dollars, Portuguese escudos, Swiss francs, United States dollars and Uruguayan pesos. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 93 Invisibles.—Exchange priority for payment of expenses incidental to trade transactions is determined by the category of the corresponding import. Remittances abroad for maintenance and travel are accorded the lowest priority. Profits on registered capital may be transferred to a maximum of 8% annually, but this percentage may be increased by the authorities for particular investments. Capital.—Transfers of registered capital are limited by law to a maximum of 20% annually. This percentage may be increased for particular investments. Investments abroad by residents are authorized only when exchange conditions permit. Exchange Receipts Exports. —All exports require export licenses and shipping permits. Approval of the exchange control authorities is customarily granted if the exchange proceeds have been contractually sold in advance or guaranteed to be surrendered. Exports of goods in short supply may be restricted by the trade control authorities. All exporters are required by law to invest the cruzeiro equivalent of 20% of their export pro- ceeds in negotiable Treasury Bills which pay 3% interest per annum and mature in 120 days. Invisibles.—Exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered. Exchange earnings f rom freight, insurance and commissions may be kept in moderate amounts at authorized banks for payments on similar transactions. Capital.—The investment of foreign capital must be registered and surrendered in order to obtain a transfer guarantee. Table of Exchange Rates (Cruzeiros per U.S. Dollar) Selling Government payments. Imports of specified essential foodstuffs, fuels, lubricants, newsprint and book paper. Registered capital. All other payments. Buying 18.38 All incoming exchange. 18.72 19.656 (O18.72 rate plus 5% tax) Note: Other effective rates can re- sult from the compulsory invest- ment of 20% of export proceeds in Treasury Bills when the Trea- sury Bills carry interest or discount rates which differ f rom the pre- vailing market rates. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 94 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT CANADA Date of Introduction September 15, 1939. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are quantitative. They are exercised through import licenses required for certain commodities and exchange licenses re- quired for non-trade payments. Exchange is automatically granted for authorized imports. Foreign exchange must be surrendered. Speci- fied exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: Canadian Dollars 1.10 = US$ 1. Official rates: buying Can$ 1.10, selling Can$ 1.105 per US$ 1. Exchange Payments Payments abroad must be effected either in the foreign exchange appropriate to the country of the recipient or by crediting the appro- priate non-resident account (see Non-Resident Accounts below). Imports.—Imports of textiles, leather and rubber goods, prepared foodstuffs and certain miscellaneous goods from Cuba, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Panama, Switzerland, U.S.S.R., United States and Venezuela require import licenses. Cer- tain other specified imports from any country also require import licenses. All other imports do not require licenses. Foreign exchange is automatically granted for authorized imports. Invisibles.—Payments abroad require licenses. Foreign exchange is freely granted for expenses incidental to trade transactions. Payments for dividends, profits and interest are usually authorized. Remittances for other purposes (charity, education, maintenance) are authorized in moderate amounts. Residents travelling abroad are freely granted certain amounts in the appropriate currencies. Capital.—Transfers of capital require approval. The proceeds of foreign capital invested af ter September 1939 in accordance with the exchange control regulations are usually credited in Canadian dollars to an appropriate non-resident account. The use of such accounts is limited for residents in the U.S. dollar area. The proceeds of foreign capital invested prior to September 1939 may be remitted to Sterling Area or Special Arrangement countries. If such proceeds are due to a resident of a "U.S. Dollar Area Country." they must be reinvested in Canadian securities or under certain conditions may be credited to a "U.S. Dollar Area Country" account. The proceeds of maturing ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 95 securities owned by non-residents can be repaid in the currency in which the obligation was expressed. Exchange Receipts Exports.—Licenses are required for exports of certain essential com- modities in short supply or under government distribution, and for all commodities exported to Europe (excluding the United Kingdom) and to most countries in the Middle and Far East. Exchange proceeds of exports must be received in the appropriate currency and surrendered. Invisibles.—Exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered. Permission is given for exchange to be retained in controlled accounts where it is required for operating purposes. Capital.—The investment of foreign capital does not require a license. Exchange receipts from capital must be obtained in the appropriate currency and surrendered. Non-Resident Accounts Non-resident accounts are divided into the following groups: 1. Special Arrangement Country Accounts (Anglo-Egyptian Sudan, Belgian Monetary Area, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, French Franc Area, Hashemite Jordan, Israel, Italy, Nether- lands Monetary Area, Norway and Sweden). Payments from these accounts may be freely made to any account re- lated to -this group, to any Sterling Area Country Account, and to residents for all purposes. Payments from these accounts to U.S. Dollar Area Accounts require licenses. 2. Sterling Area Country Accounts (all Sterling Area terri- tories) . Payments f rom these accounts may be freely made to any account related to this group, to any Special Arrange- ment Country Account, and to residents for all purposes. Payments from these acounts to U.S. Dollar Area Accounts require licenses. 3. U.S. Dollar Area Country Accounts (all countries not in- cluded in the above groups). Payments from these accounts may be freely made to any account related to this group, and, for limited purposes, to residents. Payments to ac- counts related to Special Arrangement and Sterling Area countries require licenses. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 96 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT CHILE Date of Introduction July 1931. Last ma jor revision in December 1948. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are predominantly composite. They are exercised through import prohibitions, import licenses for non-prohibited im- ports, exchange licenses for non-trade payments, and through multiple currency practices consisting of fixed penalty selling rates and a free market. Foreign exchange, with certain exceptions, must be sur- rendered. A multiple currency practice results on the buying side from the application of d ifferent fixed rates and free market rates. All exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: Chilean Pesos 31 = US$ 1. Official rates: buying P 31.00, selling P 31.10 per US$ 1. The fixed rates, mixing system and free markets yield various effective rates (see Table of Exchange Rates be low). Exchange Payments Imports.—The import of luxury goods or of goods which are of a type produced locally is generally prohibited. Other imports require import licenses. Payments of essential imports are effected at the P 31.10 rate. Payments for all other authorized imports are effected at the P 43.10 rate. The import of certain luxury goods, such as auto- mobiles, radios, cameras and watches, is permitted only through a free market in which exchange is derived from the export of domesti- cally-produced gold. The rate in this market is currently at P 130 per U.S. dollar. Invisibles.—Payments abroad at the fixed rates require licenses. Limited remittances for students abroad, administrative expenses of Chilean enterprises abroad and government payments may be effected at the P 31.10 rate. Almost all other authorized payments abroad are effected at the P 43.10 rate. Non-licensed payments may be made through the free market, currently near P 100. Capital.—Transfers of capital require approval. Transfers of earn- ings and amortization of foreign capital are limited to a combined maximum of 20% annually of the capital invested and are effected at the P 43.10 rate. Authorized investments abroad by residents may be effected at the P 43.10 rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 97 Exchange Receipts Exports.—All exports require licenses which are granted auto- matically if the exporter agrees to surrender the exchange proceeds. The large foreign-owned mining companies (copper, nitrate, iron) must surrender export proceeds at the P 19.37 rate to the extent of their local currency requirements. The exchange proceeds of a limited number of exports must be entirely surrendered at the P 43 rate. Exchange proceeds f rom other exports must be surrendered in varying proportions at the P 31 and P 43 rates, yielding three effective buying rates. Invisibles.—Practically all exchange receipts must be surrendered at the P 43 rate. Exchange receipts from tourists and diplomats may be sold at the f ree market rate. Capital.—Exchange receipts f rom capital, including investments of the large foreign-owned mining companies, must be surrendered at the P 43 rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 98 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT Table of Exchange Rates (Pesos per U.S. Dollar) Buying Selling 19.37 31.00 Local currency require- ments of large foreign- owned mining companies f or c u r r e nt ope ra t ing costs. 37.00 (50% at the P 31.00 rate and 50% at the P 43.00 rate) 39.40 (30% at the P 31.00 rate and 70% at the P 43.00 rate) 41.20 (15% at the P 31.00 rate and 85% at the P 43.00 rate) 43.00 100.77 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) 130.00 (Fluctuating Gold Market Rate) Exports, such as hides, wool, fish products. Agricultural and indus- trial exports, with cer- tain exceptions. Exports of small mines, wheat, beans. Exports such as sodium sulphate and some food- stuffs. Most invisibles. Capital imports, includ- ing local currency re- quirements for capital in- vestments of large min- ing companies. Tourists and diplomats. Sales of newly mined gold. 31.10 Essential imports. Cer- tain authorized invisi- bles. 43.10 Non-essential imports. Other authorized in- visibles. Capital. 100.77 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) 130.00 (Fluctuating Gold Market Rate) Non-licensed invisibles. Authorized luxury im- ports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 99 COLOMBIA Date of Introduction September 1931. Last ma jor revision in December 1948. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are predominantly composite. They are exercised through import licenses granted up to the limits of individual import quotas, exchange licenses for non-trade payments, and through multiple currency practices consisting of exchange taxes, an exchange certificate market and a number of mixed effective rates. Foreign exchange, with certain exceptions, must be surrendered. A multiple currency practice results on the buying side from the application of an exchange cer- tificate market rate. All exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: Colombian Pesos 1.95 = US$ 1. Official rates: buying P 1.95, selling P 1.96 per US$ 1. The official rate, exchange taxes, certificate market rate and mixed rates yield various effective rates (see Table of Exchange Rates below). Exchange Payments Payments abroad require licenses. These licenses are issued on the basis of exchange availability in the following order of priority: 1. External debt service. 2. Dividends and earnings of registered capital. 3. Certain Government requirements. 4. Obligations for which exchange has been guaranteed. 5. Royalties and patents. 6. Re-insurance premiums. 7. Banking services—commissions, interest, etc. 8. Indispensable technical services. 9. Imports on credit terms. 10. Students' expenses abroad. 11. Collections of foreign consuls in Colombia. 12. Reimbursement of bankers' irrevocable letters of credit. 13. Imports not covered by irrevocable letters of credit (e.g., open account, collections, consignments). 14. Insurance premiums. 15. Other payments not included above. Exchange licenses are granted each week up to the limit of the central bank's gold and foreign exchange purchases during the pre- ceding week. irrevocably ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 100 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT Imports. —Imports require import licenses which, for most goods, are granted up to the limits of individual quotas computed on the basis of the importer's production, sales and other criteria. Import licenses for import of specified commodities (e.g., drugs, Pharmaceuticals) are issued without regard to the established quotas. Preferential treat- ment is granted in the issuance of import licenses for the purchase of certain imports on credit terms for periods ranging from one to five years. Almost all imports (except machinery and equipment and replacement parts) are effected at the basic selling rate of P 1.96 sub- ject to varying amounts of exchange taxes. Payments for first category imports are taxed 10%, for second category 16% and third category 30%. For the import of machinery and equipment, exchange is allo- cated at the selling rate of P 1.96 for 25%, 15% or 5% of the value of the import licenses, with the remaining percentages of exchange to be purchased in the exchange certificate market, where the rate is currently at P 2.872 per U.S. dollar; for the import of replacement parts the corresponding percentages of exchange allocated at the selling rate of P 1.96 are 50%, 30% or 20%. Specified luxury imports must also be paid for through the exchange certificate market and are subject to exchange taxes. Invisibles.—Payments abroad require licenses. Payments are normally effected at the selling rate of P 1.96 plus various exchange taxes. Up to US$ 250 per month may be remitted without taxes to students and up to a total of US$ 2,500 with taxes to persons requiring medical attention abroad at the selling rate of P 1.96. Other remit- tances for expenses of residents abroad must be effected with exchange certificates. Earnings on registered foreign capital may be remitted abroad six months af ter date of investment on a quarterly basis at the selling rate of P 1.96 to which a 4% tax is applied. Capital.—Transfers of capital require approval. Registered foreign capital may be transferred af ter five years at the selling rate of P 1.96 plus 4% tax with the exception of capital brought into Colombia prior to February 19, 1935. Capital invested in oil or mining industries is exempt from this time restriction. Proceeds f rom foreign capital investments made prior to February 1935 and which have been regis- tered may be transferred. Investments abroad by residents may be effected at the selling rate of P 1.96. Exchange Receipts Exports.—All exports require licenses which are automatically granted if (1) the exporter agrees to surrender the exchange proceeds or to convert them into exchange certificates, and (2) the selling price declared by the exporter corresponds to the price quoted in the export ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 101 market. Exchange proceeds from basic exports, such as coffee, bananas and hides, must be surrendered at the P 1.95 rate. Foreign-owned petroleum companies convert export proceeds at the P 1.95 rate only to the extent of their local currency requirements. Proceeds of exports containing less than 10% of foreign raw material may be sold in the exchange certificate market. Invisibles.—Exchange receipts from invisibles may be sold in the exchange certificate market. Exchange proceeds from insurance and from earnings on resident investments abroad must be surrendered at the P 1.95 rate. Capital.—The investment of foreign capital must be registered and surrendered at the P 1.95 rate in order to obtain a transfer guarantee. Table of Exchange Rates (Pesos per U.S. Dollar) 1.95 Buying Basic exports (coffee, hides, bananas, etc.). Requirements of foreign- owned petroleum com- panies for current operat- ing costs. Insurance and earnings of Colombian investments abroad. Registered capital. Selling Government pay- ments. Certain approved invisibles and capital. Royalties and certain other invisibles. Reg- istered capital. Category I imports. Certain specified invisibles. Category II imports. Category III imports. 1.96 2.038 (P 1.96 rate plus 4% stamp tax) 2.156 (P1.96 rate plus 4% stamp tax plus 6% re- mittance tax) 2.274 (P1.96 rate plus 4% stamp tax plus 12% remittance tax) 2.548 (P1.96 rate plus 4% stamp tax plus 26% remittance tax) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 102 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT Table of Exchange Rates (continued) Buying 2.626 (P 1.96 rate plus 4% stamp tax plus 30% remittance tax) Six Mixed Effective Rates (Various mixtures of the P 1.96 rate and the exchange certificate rate plus taxes) 2.872 (Fluctua- ting Ex- change Cer- tificate Rate not includ- ing taxes) Other exports. Other invisibles. 2.872 (Fluc- tuating Exchange Certificate Rate) Selling Travel and mainte- nance; remittances by non-residents. Percentages of im- ports of machinery and equipment and replacement parts. Remaining percent- ages of imports of machinery and equip- ment ; specified lux- ury imports (these are also subject to exchange taxes). Other invisibles. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 103 COSTA RICA Date of Introduction January 16, 1932. Last m a j or revision October 15, 1948. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are predominantly quantitative and composite. They are exercised through exchange licenses required for most payments, and through multiple currency practices, consisting of an exchange tax and a f ree market. Foreign exchange, with certain exceptions, must be surrendered. All exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par va lue: Costa R ican Colones-5.615 = US$ 1. Official rates: buying (C 5.60, selling C 5.67 perUS$ 1. An exchange tax and a f ree market yield various effective rates (see Table of Exchange Rates be low ). Exchange Payments Most payments abroad require licenses. These licenses are granted up to the limits of monthly quotas on the basis of an exchange priority system, which includes four import categories, as well as specified invisibles. Payments in excess of these quotas are licensed if the requisite exchange is purchased with U.S. dollar notes acquired in the f ree market. Imports.—Imports require exchange licenses which are granted up to the limits of monthly quotas, provided the import order has been registered and the appropriate advance deposit made. For purposes of exchange allocation and advance deposit requirement, imports are classified as fo l lows: 1. "Preferential," covering the most essential goods, receive exchange at the (2 5.67 rate and require no advance deposit. 2. "First," covering necessary goods, receive exchange at the & 5.67 rate and require an advance deposit of 10% of the value of the imports. 3. "Second," covering non-essential goods, either receive ex- change at the C 5.67 rate plus a 20% tax, yielding an effective rate of C 6.80 per U.S. dollar or are made through the free market plus the 20% tax, yielding an effective rate which is currently at C 9.92 per U.S. dollar and require an advance deposit of 40% of the value of the imports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 104 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT 4. "Third," covering luxury goods are subject to the same ex- change treatment as Second Category imports, but require an advance deposit of 60% of the value of the imports. The declared value of the import must include estimated expenses incidental to trade up to limits of 10% or 15% of the principal cost of the import. By contract with the Costa Rican government, a foreign-owned banana company uses its own exchange for imports. Invisibles.—Remittances for maintenance, student expenses and similar purposes may be effected at the C 5.67 rate, but at the dis- cretion of the exchange authorities, a surcharge of 20% may be imposed on these transfers. Earnings of foreign capital invested on or af ter January 20, 1933 (other than of foreign investments governed by special contracts) may be transferred at the (C 5.67 rate. Other payments are effected through the free market. Capital.—Transfers of capital at the € 5.67 rate require approval. Certain foreign-owned investments are individually dealt with under special contracts. Exchange Receipts Exports.—Exports require licenses which are usually granted if the exporter agrees to surrender the exchange proceeds at the & 5.60 rate. Exports of goods in short supply may be restricted. Under a contract with the government, a foreign-owned banana company must sur- render at the C 5.60 rate not less than US$ 1.10 per stem of bananas exported. Invisibles.—Exchange receipts from invisibles, other than in U.S. dollar notes, must be surrendered at the (3 5.60 rate. U.S. dollar notes may be sold in the f ree market. Capital.—Exchange receipts from capital, other than in U.S. dollar notes, must be surrendered at the (3 5.60 rate. U.S. dollar notes may be sold in the free market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 105 Table of Exchange Rates (Colones per U.S. Dollar) Buying 5.60 All exchange receipts, except U.S. dollar notes. 5.67 6.80 (0 5.67 rate plus 20% tax) Selling Government pay- ments. Preferential and First Category imports. Specified invisibles in some cases. Capital. Second and Third Category imports. Specified invisibles. Exchange receipts in U.S. dollar notes. 8.79 (Fluc- tuating Free Market Rate) Certain imports paid through the free market. Certain payments with U.S. dollar notes. 8.79 (Fluc- tuating Free Market Rate) 9.92 (Fluc- tuating Free Market Rate plus 20% tax on 0 5.67 ra te) Note: Excise taxes of 30% and 50% are applied to Second and Third Category imports, respectively, except when such imports are covered by the trade agree- ment between Costa Rica and the United States. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 106 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT CUBA Date of Introduction Exchange tax established July 1925. Nature of Restrictive System A cost restriction is exercised through a multiple currency practice consisting of a small exchange tax on all remittances abroad. Pay- ments are not otherwise restricted. The proceeds of sugar exports must be partially surrendered. Exchange Rates Par value: Cuban Peso 1 = US$ 1. Official rates: buying P 1.00, selling P 1.02 per US$ 1 (including 2% exchange tax). Exchange Payments An exchange tax of 2% is applied only to sales of exchange for payments abroad. Domestic sales of U.S. dollar notes and payments from domestic bank deposits denominated in U.S. dollars are free of tax. Payments are not otherwise restricted. Exchange Receipts Exports do not require licenses. 30% of the exchange proceeds of sugar exports must be surrendered. All other exchange receipts are freely disposable. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 107 DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Date of Introduction Exchange control system established July 29, 1942. Nature of Restrictive System A few quantitative restrictions are exercised through import licenses required for certain goods. Exchange payments are not restricted, although an exchange licensing system formally exists. Exports of sugar require license. Exchange Rates Par value: Dominican Peso 1 = US$ 1. Official rates: buying and selling at the par value. Exchange Payments There are no restrictions on payments. Import licenses are required only for lard, edible oils and rice, which are goods usually produced domestically in sufficient quantities. Exchange Receipts Export licenses are required only for sugar. Exchange receipts are freely disposable. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 108 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT ECUADOR Date of Introduction In 1932. Last m a jor revision December 31, 1949. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are predominantly cost. They are exercised through multiple currency practices consisting of exchange taxes and a free market. Import quotas and prohibitions are applied to certain im- ports, and exchange licenses are required for certain non-trade payments. Foreign exchange, with certain exceptions, must be sur- rendered. Multiple currency practices result on the buying side f rom the application of an exchange tax, exchange subsidies and a f r ee market rate. All exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: Sucres 13.50 = US$ 1. Official rates: buying S 13.40, selling S. 13.50 per US$ 1. The official rates, exchange taxes, surcharges, subsidies and free market rates yield various effec t ive rates (see Table of Exchange Rates be low ). Exchange Payments Imports.—Imports require import licenses which are in most cases issued freely. The imports of wheat, flour and cotton textiles are limited by annual quotas. Certain other imports are prohibited. Essential imports are effected at the S 13.50 rate and are subject to taxes of 4% and 1% and to a surcharge of S 1 per U.S. dollar. Useful imports are effected at the S 13.50 rate and are subject to taxes of 4% and 1% and to a surcharge of S 6 per U.S. dollar. Luxury imports must be made through the f ree market, currently at S 18.33 per U.S. dollar, and are subject to taxes of 4% and 1% and to a surcharge of S 6 per U.S. dollar. The import of luxury goods, such as cars, liquors and silks, may be effected with exchange accruing f rom specified minor exports. Invisibles.—Payments abroad at the S 13.50 rate require licenses which are granted for certain remittances for travel, education and maintenance. Remittances by insurance companies may also be effected at the S 13.50 rate and are subject to taxes of 4% and 1% and to a surcharge of S 1 per U.S. dollar. All other payments may be effected through the free market. Capital.—Transfers of capital require approval. Payments of divi- dends, profits and amortization on registered foreign capital may be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 109 effected at the S 13.50 rate up to a limit which cannot be fixed at less than 15% per annum of the capital investment. Investments abroad by residents are effected through the f ree market. Exchange Receipts Exports. —All exports require licenses which are granted auto- matically if the exchange proceeds have been contractually sold in advance or guaranteed to be surrendered. Exchange proceeds f rom most exports must be surrendered at the S 15 rate. Proceeds of rice exports must be surrendered at the S 17 rate. For banana exports one U.S. dollar per stem must be surrendered at the S 15 rate. Proceeds of petroleum and gold exports are entirely exempt from the surrender requirement. 40% of the exchange proceeds from ivory exports, 60% from balsa wood exports and 100% f rom certain other minor exports may be used for the import of specified luxury goods. These partial surrender requirements result in various effective buying rates. Invisibles.—Exchange receipts f rom insurance policies and exchange to cover the local currency requirements of foreign-owned companies must be surrendered at the S 13.40 rate. All other exchange receipts may be sold in the free market. Capital.—The investment of fore ign capital must be registered and surrendered at the S 13.40 rate in order to obtain a transfer guarantee. Non-registered capital may enter through the free market in which case the transfers of capital and earnings must be made through the free market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 110 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT Table of Exchange Rates (Sucres per U.S. Dollar) 13.40 Buying Registered capital. 13.50 15.00 (S 13.40 rate less 2% tax plus S 1.87 subsidy) 17.00 (S 13.40 rate less 2% tax plus S 3.87 subsidy) Two Mixed Effective Rates (40% or 60% at the Free Market Rate, the remain- der at the official rate) 18.33 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) Selling Government pay- ments. Authorized travel, education and maintenance. Regis- tered capital. Essential imports. Specified invisibles. Useful imports. Exports other than rice, bananas, petroleum, gold and certain exports. Rice exports (until April 30, 1950). Exports of ivory nuts and balsa wood. 15.175 (S 13.50 rate plus 5% tax- es plus S 1 surcharge) 20.175 (S 13.50 rate plus 5% tax- es plus S 6 surcharge) Certain minor exports. Other invisibles. Non- registered capital. Other invisibles. Luxury imports. 18.33 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) 25.00 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate plus S 6 surcharge plus 5% tax- es on S 13.50 rate) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 111 HONDURAS Date of Introduction Exchange control system and official rates established in June and August 1934, respectively. Nature of Restrictive System A cost restriction is exercised through a multiple currency practice consisting of a difference of more than 1% between parity and the official selling rate. There are no quantitative restrictions although an exchange licensing system forma l ly exists. Exchange Rates Par value: Lempiras 2 = US$ 1. Official rates: buy ing L 2.00, selling (Tegucigalpa) L 2.04 per US$ 1, selling (Honduran North Coast) L 2.025 per US$ 1. Exchange Payments Import licenses are not required. Payments abroad require licenses which are freely granted. The selling rate of exchange exceeds the 1 % spread from parity. Exchange Receipts Exports.—Exports do not require licenses. Exporters must use export proceeds or surrender them at the L 2 rate. Foreign companies must surrender exchange at the L 2 rate to the extent of their local cur- rency requirements. Invisibles.—Exchange receipts from invisibles must be offered to a bank, and if not purchased by it, are freely disposable. Capital. —Exchange receipts from capital must be offered to a bank, and if not purchased by it, are freely disposable. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 112 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT NICARAGUA Date of Introduction November 13, 1931. Last m a jor revision December 17, 1949. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are predominantly composite. They are exercised through import licenses granted up to the limits of individual exchange quotas, through exchange licenses for non-trade payments, and incidentally through a multiple currency practice consisting of an exchange tax. Foreign exchange, with certain exceptions, must be surrendered. Exchange Rates Par value: Cordobas 5 = US$ 1. Official rates: buying C$ 5.00, selling C$ 5.038 per US$ 1. A tax of 5% imposed on sales of exchange at the official rate yields 'an effective selling rate of C$ 5.289. Transactions in foreign notes and coins, mainly U.S. dollar notes, result in a f ree market ra te; such foreign notes may not be exported (see Table of Exchange Rates be low ). Exchange Payments Imports.—All imports require import licenses which are granted up to the limits of individual exchange quotas computed on the basis of pre- vious imports and other criteria. Licenses are granted to foreign-owned companies for imports authorized in their contracts, but such imports must be paid for with their own exchange. Certain non-essential goods may be imported only if the payment is made with exchange cer- tificates.13 Upon issue of an import license, the importer is required to deposit in cordobas the following percentages of the amount in- volved corresponding to the category of import: 1. Preferential —no deposit. 2. Essential—25% deposit. 3. Semi-essential—50% deposit. 4. Non-essential—100% deposit. Agricultural and livestock producers are given preferential treat- ment in the procurement of import licenses for essential imports for their own use. In certain cases marginal exporters may be authorized to import essential goods to a value equivalent to their exports. Invisibles.—Payments abroad require licenses. 13 An exchange certificate system has been created by law, but as of December 31, 1949, no certificates had been issued. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 113 Capital.—Transfers of capital require approval, except that fore ign- owned companies may t ran s fer their capital and earnings as stipulated by their respective con trac ts. Exchange Receipts Exports.—Exports do not require licenses. Exchange proceeds of exports must be surrendered at the C$ 5 rate. However, exporters of agr icu l tural and livestock products must surrender 80% of their foreign exchange proceeds at the C$ 5 ra te and receive for the re- mainder negotiable exchange certificates denominated in U.S. dollars (see foo tno te 1 3). Foreign-owned companies must surrender export proceeds at the C$ 5 r a te to the extent of their local currency require- ments. Invisibles.—Exchange receipts f rom invisibles other than fore ign banknotes and coins must be surrendered at the C$ 4.987 rate. Foreign banknotes and coins may be sold in the f r ee market. Capital. —Exchange receipts f rom capital, other than fore ign bank- notes and coins, must be surrendered at the C$ 4.987 rate. The invest- ment or re-investment of capital by foreign-owned companies operating under special contracts is made accord ing to the terms of the contract. Table of Exchange Rates (Cordobas per U.S. Dollar) 4.987 5.00 Buying Invisibles and capital. All exports.- Foreign notes and coins. (See foo tno te 13) 6.93 (Fluc- tua t ing Free Ma rket Rate) (Exchange Certificate Market Ra te) Selling Government pay- ments. Other licensed pay- ments. Foreign notes and coins. 5.038 5.289 (C$5.038 rate plus 5% exchange tax) 6.94 (Fluc- tua t ing Free Ma rket Ra te) Note: In addition to the 5% exchange tax an ad valorem tax of 5% is applied as f rom November 18, 1949 to all im- ports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 114 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT PARAGUAY Date of Introduction November 13, 1931. Last ma jor revision November 5, 1949. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are predominantly composite. They are exercised through import licenses, exchange licenses required for both imports and non-trade payments and through penalty selling rates. Foreign exchange must be surrendered. Multiple currency practices result on the buying side from the application of d ifferent exchange rates and export taxes. A few exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: Guaranies 3.09 = US$ 1. Basic rates: buying 03.059, selling & 3.121 per US$ 1. Other buying and selling rates have been established (see Table of Exchange Rates below). Exchange Payments Imports.—Imports require import and exchange licenses which are issued in combined form. Government imports and essential imports, such as wheat, fuel, Pharmaceuticals, are effected at the & 3.121 rate. Imports of raw materials and machinery are effected at the G 4.9821 rate. Imports of various consumer goods are effected at the & 6.0821 rate. Imports of non-essential and luxury imports are effected at the G 8.0521 rate. Invisibles.—Payments abroad require licenses, and are effected at the G 8.0521 rate. Capital.—Transfers of capital require approval, and are effected at the G 8.0521 rate. Exchange Receipts Exports. —A few goods in short supply require export licenses. All export proceeds must be surrendered at specified rates. Proceeds of basic exports such as wood, quebracho extract, hides, cotton and meat products must be surrendered at the G 4.92 rate. Proceeds of favored exports such as petitgrain oil, vegetable oils and sawn lumber must be surrendered at the G 6.02 rate. Export taxes are applied at various rates to the exchange proceeds of most exports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 115 Invisibles.—Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered at the 0- 7.99 rate. Certain government receipts are converted at the & 3.059 rate. Capital.—Exchange receipts f rom capital must be surrendered at the 0 7.99 rate. Table of Exchange Rates (Guaranies per U.S. Dollar) Buying 3.121 4.9821 im- Selling Government pay- ments. Essential ports (e.g., wheat, fuels, pharmaceu- ticals) . Raw materials and machinery imports. 3.059 Certain government receipts. 4.92 6.02 7.99 Basic exports (wood, quebracho extract, hides, cotton and mea t ). Favored exports (petitgrain oil, vegetable oils and sawn lumbe r ). Invisibles and capital. Note: The above rates for exports are not the effective rates. The effective rates for export proceeds depend on the different rates of export taxes (up to 15% deducted from the exchange pro- ceeds of most exports). 6.0821 Various consumer imports. 8.0521 Non-essential and luxury imports. In- visibles and capital. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 116 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT PERU Date of Introduction January 23, 1945. Last m a j or revision November 11, 1949. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are quantitative and cost. They are exercised through import prohibitions, and multiple currency practices which result from the application of an exchange certificate market for trade transactions and a free market for non-trade transactions. Foreign exchange from all exports must be converted into exchange certificates. All exports require licenses. Exchange Rates No par value for the Peruvian Sol. The exchange certificate and free markets yield fluctuating rates (see Table of Exchange Rates be low ). Exchange Payments Imports.—Imports included in an authorized list of permissible im- ports or coming f rom a country whose currency has been declared surplus do not require import licenses. All other imports are pro- hibited. Payments for imports are effected through the exchange certificate market in which the rate is currently at S/ 14.81 per U.S. dollar. Invisibles.—Payments for expenses incidental to trade transactions may be effected at the exchange certificate market rate. All other payments may be effected through the free market, in which the rate is currently at S/ 16.34 per U.S. dollar. Capital.—Transfers of capital may be effected at the free market rate. Exchange Receipts Exports.—All exports require licenses which are automatically granted if the exporter agrees to convert the exchange proceeds into exchange certificates denominated in terms of U.S. dollars and United Kingdom pounds. Invisibles.—Exchange receipts from invisibles may be sold in the f ree market. Capital.—Exchange receipts f rom capital may be sold in the free market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 117 Table of Exchange Rates (Soles per U.S. Dollar) Buying All exports. Invisibles and capital. 14.81 (Fluc- tuating Exchange Certificate Rate) 16.34 (Fluc- tuating Free Market Rate) Selling All imports. Certain invisibles. Other invisibles and capital. 14.81 (Flue- tuating Exchange Certificate Rate) 16.34 (Flue- tuating Free Market Rate) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 118 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT URUGUAY Date of Introduction May 1931. Last ma jor revision October 6, 1949. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are predominantly composite. They are exercised through import licenses granted up to the limits of individual exchange quotas and through penalty selling rates. Foreign exchange from exports must be surrendered. A multiple currency practice results on the buying side from the application of different exchange rates and a free market rate. All exports require licenses. Exchange Rates No par value for the Uruguayan Peso. Three official buying and three official selling rates and a f ree ma rke t14 have been established (see Table of Exchange Rates be low). Exchange Payments Imports.—All imports require import licenses, which are issued up to the limits of individual exchange quotas computed on the basis of previous imports and other criteria. Imports of newsprint, inks and cardboard matrices are effected at the P 1.519 rate. Essential imports are effected at the P 1.90 rate. Non-essential and luxury imports are effected at the P 2.45 rate. Invisibles.—Government payments are made at the P 1.519 rate. Exchange for other invisibles must be obtained in the f ree market, currently at P 3.10 per U.S. dollar. Capital.—Transfers of capital must be effected through the free market. Exchange Receipts Exports.—All exports require licenses which are granted auto- matically if the exchange proceeds have been contractually sold in advance to an authorized bank. The export of essential goods in short supply may be prohibited. Proceeds of basic exports (meat, wool, linseed and wheat) must be surrendered at the P 1.519 rate. Export proceeds of oils, dry and 14 The free market is identified as a "controlled free market" and a "parallel free market." Both markets have identical exchange rates and may be used for identical purposes. The "controlled free market" is operated by the banks and the "parallel free market" is operated by private dealers. The rate is supported from time to time by the Central Bank which intervenes through the "controlled free market." ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 119 salted hides and skins, and packing house products must be surrendered at the P 1.78 rate. Export proceeds of woolen manufactures, pork, bricks, tanned leather and its manufactures, sheep and farm products must be surrendered at the P 2.35 rate. Invisibles.—Exchange receipts from invisibles may be sold in the free market. Capital. —Exchange receipts from capital may be sold in the free market. Table of Exchange Rates (Pesos per U.S. Dollar) Buying Basic exports (meat, wool, linseed, wheat) Exports of oils, dry and salted hides and skins, packing house products, rice. Exports of woolen manu- factures, tanned leather and its manufactures, pork, bricks, sheep and other farm products. Invisibles and capital. 1.519 1.78 2.35 3.10 (Flue- tuating Free Market Rate) Note: An exchange tax of 1% is applied to the purchase of export proceeds. 1.519 1.90 2.45 Selling Government pay- ments. Newsprint, inks, cardboard matrix imports. Essential imports. Non-essential and luxury imports. Invisibles and capital. 3.10 (Fluc- tuating Free Market Rate) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 120 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT VENEZUELA Date of Introduction August 1934. Last m a jor revision July 1941. Nature of Restrictive System A few quantitative restrictions are exercised through import licenses required for certain goods. Exchange payments are not restricted. Multiple currency practices result f rom the application of d ifferen t ial rates to export proceeds of co f fee and cacao, to purchases of exchange f rom the petroleum companies and to government imports. A few exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: Bolivares 3.35 = US$ 1. Official rates: buy ing Bs 3.32, selling Bs 3.35 per US$ 1. Other buy- ing and selling rates have been established (see Table of Exchange Rates be low). Exchange Payments Imports. —Import licenses are required only for a few goods, mostly of a type produced locally. Payments for government imports are effected at the Bs 3.09 rate. Payments for all other imports are effec ted at the Bs 3.35 rate. Invisibles.—Payments for invisible transactions may be freely made at the Bs 3.35 rate. Capital.—Payments for transfers of capital may be freely made at the Bs 3.35 rate. Exchange Receipts Exports.—Export licenses are required only for a few products essen- tial to the domestic economy. The oil companies must surrender ex- port proceeds to the extent of their local currency requirements at the Bs 3.09 rate. A Bs 3.046259 rate is applied to exchange surrendered by them in excess of the Central Bank's sales of exchange to domestic buyers during any one year. Proceeds of cacao and unwashed coffee exports are sold at the Bs 4.25 rate and proceeds of washed coffee exports are sold at the Bs4.80 rate; but the proportion of foreign ex- change sold at these rates is limited and decreases as world prices of these exports rise above a certain amount. The balance of these ex- port proceeds, and the exchange proceeds from all other exports are sold at the Bs 3.32 rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 121 Invisibles.—Exchange receipts from invisibles are freely disposable and are sold at the Bs 3.32 rate. Capital.—Exchange receipts from capital are freely disposable and are sold at the Bs 3.32 rate. Table of Exchange Rates (Bolivares per U.S. Dollar) Selling 3.09 Government imports. 3.35 All other payments. 3.09 3.32 Buying 3.046259 Local currency require- m e n ts of p e t r o l e um companies in excess of Central Bank's foreign exchange sales. Local currency require- men ts of p e t r o l e um companies up to the limits of Central Bank's foreign exchange sales. All exports, other than petroleum, coffee and cacao. Invisibles and capital. Cacao and unwashed cof- fee exports. 4.80 Washed coffee exports. Note: The above rates for coffee and cacao need not be effective rates since sales at these rates are varied in accord- ance with the world prices for these commodities. A tax of Bs 2 is levied per bag of washed coffee, and of Bs 1% per 46 kilograms of unwashed coffee. 4.25 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 4. Exchange Controls and Restrictions in the Middle and Far East Egypt Ethiopia Iran Lebanon Philippine Republic Syria Thailand Page No. 125 127 128 129 131 132 134 123 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 125 EGYPT Date of Introduction September 28, 1939. Last ma jor revision July 14,1947. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are quantitative. They are exercised through import licenses granted up to the limits of individual import quotas, and ex- change licenses required for non-trade payments. Exchange is auto- matically granted for authorized imports. Foreign exchange from cur- rent transactions must be surrendered. A few exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: Egyptian Pound 1 = US$ 2.87156. Official rates: buying US$ 2.8747, selling US$ 2.8676 per £E 1. Exchange Control Territory There is no exchange control between Egypt and the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan, but each of the two territories has its separate exchange control system. Exchange Payments Imports.—Imports require import licenses which are granted up to the limits of individual import quotas. However, imports from the Sterling Area, French Franc Area, those countries to which the United Kingdom Transferable Account arrangements apply and certain other countries to which transfers in sterling can be made do not require licenses. Foreign exchange is automatically granted for authorized imports. Invisibles.—Payments abroad require licenses. Foreign exchange is freely granted for expenses incidental to trade transactions. Certain freedom in exchange operations is granted to shipping agents. Remit- tances for family maintenance, students' and travelling expenses abroad are freely authorized up to certain limits. However, remittances for these purposes to "hard" currency countries15 are authorized up to certain limits for nationals of those countries. The transfer of income and earnings due to non-residents is authorized to all countries except "hard" currency countries. Those due to "hard" currency countries are 15In Egypt, "hard" currency countries are listed as: Argentina, Belgian Mone- tary Area, Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Japan, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Philippine Republic, Switzerland, United States and possessions, Venezuela and Western Germany. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 126 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT credited to non-resident accounts. Payments f rom these accounts may be made for (1) investments in Egyptian Government bonds and in Egyp t ian registered securities not redeemable within ten years; (2) subscriptions in respect of increase of capital in Egyptian companies in which the account-holder is already a shareholder; (3) expenses of the account-holder and his fam i ly while in Egypt; (4) monthly remit- tances to the account-holder abroad, subject to license. Capital.—Transfers of capital require approval. Capital payments due to non-residents, other than residents of the United Kingdom, are credited to non-resident accounts. Payments from these may be made for (1) investments in Egyptian Government bonds and in Egyptian registered securities not redeemable within ten years; (2) subscriptions in respect of increase of capital in Egyptian companies in which the account-holder is already a shareholder; and (3) expenses of the account-holder and his family while in Egypt up to £ 1,000 per annum. Transfers of capital to residents of the United Kingdom are authorized, with certain limitations, in accordance with a special agreement with the United Kingdom. Exchange is granted for the purchase in the United Kingdom of Egyptian securities by residents provided the securities are imported into Egypt. Certain facilities exist for limited investment abroad in "soft" currencies. Other investments abroad by residents are prohibited. Exchange Receipts Exports. —Few exports require licenses. Export proceeds must be received (1) in appropriate foreign exchange, or (2) in sterling eligible for credit to an Egyptian Transferable Account in the United Kingdom, or (3) in Egyptian pounds from a non-resident account appropriate to the country of destination. Exchange receipts must be surrendered. Invisibles.—Receipts from invisibles must be obtained in one of the ways applicable to export proceeds and the foreign exchange receipts surrendered. Capital.—The investment of foreign capital requires approval. Ex- change receipts from capital must be surrendered. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 127 ETHIOPIA Date of Introduction October 31, 1942. Revised September 11, 1949. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are quantitative. They are exercised through exchange licenses. All foreign exchange receipts must be surrendered. Exchange Rates Par value: Ethiopian Dollars 2.48447 = US$ 1. Official rates: buying Eth$2.48; selling Eth$2.53 per US$ 1. Exchange Payments All payments abroad require licenses. Exchange Receipts All exchange receipts must be surrendered. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 128 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT IRAN Date of Introduction February 1930. Revised September 17,1949. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are predominantly composite. They are exercised through import prohibitions, import licenses required for non-prohib- ited imports, exchange licenses for non-trade payments and a mul- tiple currency practice consisting of a fixed exchange certificate rate. Foreign exchange, with certain exceptions, must be surrendered. A multiple currency practice results on the buying side from the applica- tion of an exchange certificate rate. Exchange Rates Par value: Rials 32.25 =US$ 1. Off ic ial rates: buying Rls32.00, selling Rls32.50 per US$ 1. The exchange certificate rate (fixed at Rls 7.50) plus the official rates yield other effective rates: buying Rls 39.50, selling Rls 40.00 per US$ 1. Exchange Payments Imports. —Imports of non-essential goods and certain goods of a type produced locally are prohibited. All other imports require licenses. Payments for government imports are effected at the Rls 32.50 rate. Payments for other imports are made at the Rls 40 rate. Invisibles. —Payments abroad require licenses. Capital.—Transfers of capital require approval which, in the case of Iranians, is only given in exceptional circumstances. Exchange Receipts Exports.—Exports of permitted goods do not require licenses. Pro- ceeds of exports, other than oil, must be surrendered at the Rls 39.50 rate. The oil company must surrender export proceeds at the Rls 32 rate to the extent of its local currency requirements. Invisibles.—Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered at the Rls 32 rate. Capital. —Exchange receipts from capital must be surrendered at the Rls 32 rate. The investment of capital by foreign-owned companies may, under special arrangements, obtain a transfer guarantee. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 129 LEBANON Date of Introduction December 3, 1939. Last m a jor revision September 26, 1949. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are predominantly cost. They are exercised th rough a multiple currency practice consisting of a f ree market and through im- port licenses. Foreign exchange f rom invisibles, if sold, must be sur- rendered in varying proportions. A multiple currency practice results on the buying side f rom the application of d i f fe rent effec t ive ra tes. All exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: Lebanese Pounds 2.19148 = US$ 1. Official rates: buying LL 2.19, selling LL 2.21 per US$ 1. The off ic ial rates and a free market ra te yield various effective rates (see Table of Exchange Rates be low ). Exchange Payments Imports.—All imports require lic'enses which are restrictively applied only to a few commodities of a type produced locally. Imports are effected through the f ree market, currently at LL 3.23 per U.S. dollar, or with the importer's own exchange. Invisibles.—Payments abroad may be freely effected but the re- mitter must provide his own exchange or purchase it in the free market. Capital.—Transfers of capital abroad may be freely effected but the remitter must provide his own exchange or purchase it in the f ree market. Exchange Receipts Exports.—All exports require licenses which are freely granted. Ex- change proceeds are freely disposable. Invisibles.—Exchange receipts from invisibles in specified cur- rencies 16 may be retained and used, but if sold, 10% must be sur- rendered at the LL2.19 rate, and the remainder may be sold in the f ree market. Companies operating under special contract must sell at the LL2.19 rate 80% of the specified currencies to be sold, and the remainder may be sold in the free market. Exchange receipts in other currencies are free ly disposable. 16 In Lebanon, specified currencies are listed as: Belgian francs, Canadian dol- lars, Egyptian pounds, Iraqi dinars, Swiss francs, United Kingdom pounds and United States dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 130 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT Capital.—-Exchange receipts from capital in the specified currencies may be retained and used, but if sold, 10% must be surrendered at the LL2.19 rate and the remainder may be sold in the free market. Ex- change receipts in other currencies are freely disposable. Table of Exchange Rates (Lebanese Pounds per U.S. Dollar) 2.19 2.398 (80% at the LL2.19 rate and 20% at the Free Market Rate) 3.126 (10% at the LL2.19 rate and 90% at the Free Market Rate) 3.23 (Fluc- tuating Free Market Rate) Buying 2.21 Selling Government pay- ments. Sales of specified cur- rencies by companies operating under contract. Invisibles and capital in specified currencies. All exports. Invisibles and capital in non- specified currencies. 3.23 (Fluc- tuating Free Market Rate) All other payments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 131 PHILIPPINE REPUBLIC Date of Introduction December 9, 1949. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are quantitative. They are exercised through import licenses granted up to the limits of individual import quotas, for other than essential goods, and through exchange licenses required for essential imports and non-trade payments. Foreign exchange must be surrendered. A few exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: Philippine Pesos 2 = US$ 1. Official rates: buying P 2.0075, selling P 2.0081 per US$ 1. Exchange Payments Imports. —Essential imports require exchange licenses. Other im- ports require import licenses which are issued up to the limits of individual quotas computed on the basis of 1948 imports. Exchange is automatically granted for authorized imports. Invisibles.—Payments abroad require licenses, but these are freely granted up to a limit of US$ 50 monthly per person. Capital.—Transfers of capital require approval. Exchange Receipts Exports.—Most exports do not require licenses. A few goods, such as sugar, exported under quota to the United States, require licenses. The proceeds of all exports must be obtained in U.S. dollars and surrendered. Invisibles.—Exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered. Capital.—Licenses are required for the disposal of capital held abroad by residents and for incurring new liabilities to non-residents. Exchange receipts f rom capital must be surrendered. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 132 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT SYRIA Date of Introduction Decembers, 1939. Last ma jor revision September 26, 1949. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are predominantly cost. They are exercised through a multiple currency practice consisting of a free market and through import licenses. Foreign exchange from invisibles, if sold, must be surrendered in varying proportions. A multiple currency practice results on the buying side from the application of different effective rates. A few exports require licenses. Exchange Rates Par value: Syrian Pounds 2.19148 = US$ 1. Official rates: buying LS 2.19, selling LS 2.21 per US$ 1. The official rates and a free market rate yield various effective rates (see Table of Exchange Rates below). Exchange Payments Imports.—All imports require licenses which are restrictively ap- plied only to a few commodities of a type produced locally. Imports are effected through the free market, currently at LS 3.40 per U.S. dollar, or with the importer's own exchange. Invisibles.—Payments abroad may be freely effected but the re- mitter must provide his own exchange or purchase it in the free market. Capital.—Transfers of capital abroad may be freely effected but the remitter must provide his own exchange or purchase it in the free market. Exchange Receipts Exports. —A few exports essential to the domestic economy are pro- hibited, and a few others require licenses. All other exports are free of license. Exchange proceeds are freely disposable. Invisibles.—Exchange receipts from invisibles in specified cur- rencies 17 may be retained and used, but if sold, 10% must be sur- rendered at the LS 2.19 rate, and the remainder may be sold in the free market. 17 In Syria, specified currencies are listed as Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Czechoslovak koruny, Danish kroner, Egyptian pounds, French francs, Iraqi dinars, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Swiss francs, United Kingdom pounds and United States dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 133 Companies operating under special contract must sell at the LS 2.19 rate 80% of the specified currencies to be sold, and the remainder may be sold in the free market. Exchange receipts in other currencies are freely disposable. Capital.—Exchange receipts from capital in the specified currencies may be retained and used, but if sold, 10% must be surrendered at the LS 2.19 rate, and the remainder may be sold in the free market. Exchange receipts in other currencies are freely disposable. Table of Exchange Rates (Syrian Pounds per U.S. Dollar) Buying Selling Government pay- ments. 221 Sales of specified cur- rencies by companies operating under contract. Invisibles and capital in specified currencies. 2.19 2.432 (80% at the LS2.19 rate and 20% at the Free Market Rate) 3.279 (10% at the LS2.19 Tate and 90% at the Free Market Ra te) 3.40 (Fluc- tuating Free Market Rate) All exports. Invisibles and capital in non-spec- ified currencies. 3.40 (Fluc- tuating Free Market Rate) All other payments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 134 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT THAILAND Date of Introduction January 27, 1942. Revised in 1948. Nature of Restrictive System Restrictions are predominantly cost. They are exercised through multiple currency practices consisting of a free market rate and a penalty selling rate and through import licenses required for certain non-essential goods. The foreign exchange proceeds of the principal exports must be surrendered in varying proportions. Multiple cur- rency practices result on the buying side from the application of different fixed rates and a free market rate. A few exports require licenses. Exchange Rates No par value for the Baht. Official rates: buying Baht 12.45, selling Baht 12.55 per US$ 1. The surrender of various portions of exchange, and the free market yield various effective rates (see Table of Exchange Rates below). Exchange Payments Imports. —Import licenses are required for certain non-essential and luxury goods. Government imports, books, papers and periodicals, and petroleum products imported by certain companies are effected at the Baht 12.55 rate. Most imports from Japan require import licenses and are effected at the Baht 20.20 rate. Payments for other imports are made through the free market, which is currently at a rate of Baht 23.03 per U.S. dollar. Invisibles.—Remittances for students are effected at the Baht 12.55 rate. Foreign exchange for other purposes is obtained in the free market. Capital.—Foreign exchange for transfers of capital is obtained in the free market. Exchange Receipts Exports.—Export licenses are required for the principal export com- modities and for all exports to Japan. Exporters of rice must surrender 100%, of tin 50%, and of rubber 20% of the export proceeds at the Baht 12.45 rate, the remainder may be sold in the free market. The proceeds of all other exports may be sold in the free market, except for those to Japan, which must be surrendered at a special Baht 19.80 rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 135 Invisibles. —Exchange receipts from invisibles may be sold in the free market. Capital.—Exchange receipts of capital may be sold in the free market. Table of Exchange Rates (Baht per U.S. Dollar) Buying Selling 12.45 Rice exports. 12.55 Government pay- ments. Imports of petroleum products, books, papers and periodicals. Student remittances. 17.67 (50% at the Baht 12.45 rate and 50% at the Free Market Rate) 19.80 20.81 (20% at the Baht 12.45 rate and 80% at the Free Market Rate) 22.90 (Fluc- tuating Free Market Rate) Tin exports. Exports to Japan, ex- cept rice, tin and rubber. 20.20 Imports from Japan, except government imports. Rubber exports. Other exports. Invisibles and capital. Other imports. Other invisibles and capital. 23.03 (Fluc- tuating Free Market Rate) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution A P P E N D IX ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 139 Communication Sent by Fund to Members on Multiple Currency Practices December 19, 1947 To All Members: During the past several months the Fund has been giving special consideration to multiple currency practices. I am writing to all of the members today in order to acquaint them with the results of our con- siderations. Enclosed is a memorandum containing the pertinent de- cisions taken by the Executive Board. These set forth general lines of the Fund's policies toward multiple currency practices which the Fund has adopted to date, together with the obligations of the members and the jurisdiction of the Fund upon which the development of Fund policy will necessarily be based. We intend, as rapidly as may be possible under the circumstances, to discuss with each member now engaging in a multiple currency practice how this general policy will be applied to its individual prob- lems. In the meantime, all of the members are requested to be guided by the enclosed memorandum and to initiate with the Fund discus- sions of any pressing problems which may arise. Sincerely yours, /s/ GUTT Managing Director ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 140 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT MULTIPLE CURRENCY PRACTICES (Enclosure with above letter) This memorandum contains the decisions the Fund has so far taken concerning its policies toward multiple currency practices and clarification of its jurisdiction with respect to such practices. The exchange systems of the members who engage in multiple cur- rency practices are frequently complex. For this reason various difficulties will be involved in the modification and removal of the practices, and the policy of the Fund in this regard must develop progressively as its consultations with the members concerned reveal problems which might otherwise be overlooked. The policies set forth below have been agreed as a basis for the initiation of discussions with the members affec ted: I. POLICIES A. General 1. Consultation. There should be continuing consultation on mul- tiple currency practices between the Fund and the members concerned. Members should, as a minimum, consult the Fund before introducing a multiple currency practice, before making a change in any of the multiple rates of exchange, before reclassifying transactions subject to different rates, and before making any other type of significant change in their exchange systems. 2. Stability and Restrictions. In most cases multiple currency prac- tices are both systems of exchange rates and restrictions on payments and transfers for current international transactions. Whenever it is inconvenient to deal with both aspects of such multiple currency prac- tice simultaneously, priority should be given to those features which affect exchange stability and orderly exchange arrangements among members. 3. Removal. Early steps should be taken toward the removal of multiple currency practices which are clearly not necessary for balance of payments reasons. In such cases, ample time should be provided for members to take the necessary steps and to install appropriate substitutes where necessary. The Fund will encourage members engaging in multiple currency practices for balance of payments reasons to establish as soon as possible conditions which would permit their removal, with the general objective of seeking removal not later than the end of the transitional period. Where complete removal by the end of the transitional period proves ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 141 impossible, the Fund will assist the members concerned to eliminate the most dangerous aspects of their multiple currency practices and to exercise reasonable control over those retained. B. Specific Practices 1. Fixed Exchange Rates. When a multiple currency system includes fixed exchange rates, members should consult with the Fund on any changes in their practices, whether such changes concern the rates of exchange or the classification of transactions subject to particular practices. Should the step contemplated by a member be a part of a program made in agreement with the Fund, the member could, of course, act without prior consultation. When a multiple rate system is used for restrictions on current and capital transactions, the elimination of the restriction on current trans- actions would be highly commendable even though restrictions on capital transactions might have to be retained. 2. Taxes on Exchange Drafts. The use by members of taxes on exchange drafts resulting in an unusually large difference between buying and selling rates for a currency is not in accord with the objectives of the Fund Agreement and the Fund shall, in consultation with members concerned, seek the elimination of such practices as rapidly as practicable. 3. Fluctuating Rates of Exchange. (a) Free Markets. When a multiple currency practice includes a free market with a fluctuating rate, the member should agree with the Fund on the scope of the transactions per- mitted to take place in that market. Any changes in the scope of these transactions should, of course, be subject to agreement with the Fund. The objective should be to eliminate the fluctuations in the free market as soon as such action is reasonably practicable. When it is not reasonably practicable to eliminate such fluctuations, the Fund will encourage members to exclude current transactions from the free market to the extent that this would be reasonable in the circumstances of each case. (b) The Auction System. (i) The purpose for which an auction system is to be used should be agreed with the. Fund and any change in its scope should be agreed with the Fund. The fewer the transactions subject to the auction rate, and the less essential the goods involved, the better, (ii) Depending upon the circumstances, the monetary au- thorities should undertake to keep the auction rate ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 142 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT stable, or to maintain it within certain limits, or to make every effort to prevent brisk fluctuations. ( i i i) Wherever auction rates exist or are proposed, the cir- cumstances should be examined in order to determine whether a fixed rate should be substituted for the auction rate. If, as is usually the case where an auction system exists, a reduction of the money supply is desirable, the proceeds of the auction market should be directed toward this end. (iv) II. JURISDICTION OP THE FUND Multiple currency practices, besides being in most cases restrictive practices, also constitute systems of exchange rates. Since exchange stability depends on effective rates, the general purposes of the Fund and the members' undertakings of Article IV, Section 4 (a) "to col- laborate with the Fund to promote exchange stability, to maintain orderly exchange arrangements with other members, and to avoid competitive exchange alterations" are fundamental considerations in an interpretation of the rights and obligations of members under Article XIV, Section 2 or Article VIII, Section 3 to maintain, intro- duce, or adapt multiple currency practices. Subject to these general principles, the following conclusions are agreed with respect to the Fund's jurisdiction and the obligations of members.* A. Practices Subject to Article Fill, Section 3 1. Maintenance. A member maintaining multiple currency practices at the time the Agreement entered into force, if it does not take advan- tage of Article XIV, is required by Article VIII, Section 3, to consult with the Fund for their progressive removal or obtain the Fund's approval for their maintenance. 2. Introduction. Members that have not been occupied by the enemy and former enemy-occupied members which have not taken advantage of the transitional arrangements, whether or not they have existing multiple rate practices, may introduce a new practice only under Article VIII, Section 3, which provides expressly for the necessity of approval by the Fund. 3. Adaptation. If a multiple currency practice is in force by virtue of Article VIII, Section 3, the member may change or adapt such prac- tice only after consulting with the Fund and obtaining its approval. * These conclusions concerning the Fund's jurisdiction and the obligation of members apply to all members including those for whose currencies par values have not been established. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 143 4. Reclassification. Members maintaining multiple currency prac- tices under Article VIII, Section 3, may reclassify commodities subject to the practices only af ter consultation with the Fund and Fund approval. B. Practices Subject to Article XIV, Section 2 1. Restrictive Nature. Multiple currency practices, when applied to current international transactions, constitute a type of restriction on payments and transfers for current international transactions for the purposes of Article XIV, Section 2. 2. Representations by the Fund. The following language in Article XIV, Section 4 of the Fund Agreement: "The Fund may, if it deems such action necessary in exceptional cir- cumstances, make representations to any member that conditions are favorable for the withdrawal of any particular restriction or for the general abandonment of restrictions inconsistent with the provisions of any other article of this Agreement." (a) applies at any time after the entry into force of the Fund Agreement and (b) gives to the Fund the power to determine what is meant by "in exceptional circumstances." 3. Maintenance. Members may maintain multiple currency prac- tices during the transitional period under the provisions of Article XIV, Section 2, but only if the maintenance of such practices is necessary for settling members' balance of payments in a manner which does not unduly encumber their access to the resources of the Fund. Members are under a duty to withdraw such practices as soon as they are able without them to settle their balance of payments in a manner which will not unduly encumber their access to the resources of the Fund. Moreover, under Section 4 of Article XIV, the Fund has certain powers to make representations in exceptional circumstances, of which it is the judge, that conditions are favorable for the withdrawal of any par- ticular restriction. The Fund may exercise this power even if a par- ticular restriction is justified for balance of payments reasons, if the conditions are favorable for the substitution of some practice which is not inconsistent with the purposes of the Agreement. 4. Introduction. Only fo rmer enemy-occupied members, which are availing themselves of the transitional provisions, and then whether or not they have existing multiple currency practices, may introduce a new multiple currency practice under Article XIV, Section 2, provided the Fund agrees with the member that the practice is necessary and does not find that it is inconsistent with the purposes of the Fund Agreement or with Article IV, Section 4 ( a ). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 144 EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS REPORT 5. Adaptation. A member maintaining multiple currency practices under Article XIV may adapt the existing restrictions, provided such action is consistent with the obligations of Article IV, Section 4 (a) and the Fund is satisfied that the adaptation is dictated by "changing cir- cumstances." A duty to consult with and obtain the approval of the Fund before changing the practice is implicit in both Article IV, Sec- tion 4 (a) and in Article XIV, Section 2. The Fund has the power under Article XIV, Section 4, to represent in exceptional circumstances that circumstances are favorable to withdrawal of a proposal to change an existing multiple currency practice. 6. Reclassification. A member maintaining multiple currency prac- tices under Article XIV may reclassify commodities subject to such practices, under the power to adapt restrictions in Section 2 of Article XIV, and under the same conditions, provided, however, that under the existing restrictions the effective rates are other than parity. C. Exchange Taxes When a tax affects an obligation undertaken by the members of the Fund, the relationship between the tax and the obligation is of direct concern to the Fund and subject to its jurisdiction. Whenever exchange taxes are used to modify par values, create multiple currency practices, or introduce restrictive exchange controls, they are subject to the Fund's jurisdiction. The Fund has authority to deal with these ex- change matters irrespective of the official device or procedure involved. D. Rates Differing from Parity by More than One Per Cent An effective buying or selling rate which, as a result of official action, e.g., the imposition of an exchange tax, differs from parity by more than one per cent, constitutes a multiple currency practice. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 