 ANNUAL REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 1981 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND ANNUAL REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 1981 Washington, D.C. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letter of Transmittal to Members and Governors of the Fund June 26, 1981 Dear Sir: I have the honor to transmit to you a copy of the International Monetary Fund's Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions, 1981, which has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article XIV, Section 3, of the Articles of Agreement. On behalf of the Executive Board, I should like to express our appreciation of the cooperation of the countries in the preparation of the second part of the Report. Sincerely yours, /s/ J. DE LAROSIERE Chairman of the Executive Board and Managing Director V ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONTENTS Page PART ONE Import I. Introduction II. Main Developments in Exchange Rates and Exchange Arrangements . . .. III. Main Developments in Restrictive Practices Imports and Import Payments Quantitative Import Controls Import Surcharges and Taxation Advance Import Deposits Other Measures Affecting Import Payments State Trading Exports and Export Proceeds Current Invisibles Payments Arrears Multiple Currency Practices Bilateral Payments Arrangements . .. Capital Flows Gold IV. Main Developments Arrangements Annex: Policy on Multiple Currency Practices in Regional PART Two Explanatory Note on Coverage of Individual Countries Afghanistan Algeria Argentina Australia Austria Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belgium and Luxembourg Benin Bolivia Botswana Brazil Burma Burundi Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Central African Republic ; 3 5 11 11 11 14 16 16 17 17 19 21 22 25 26 30 31 36 38 39 41 44 48 53 57 61 62 66 69 74 77 79 80 87 89 92 95 97 98 Chad Chile China, People's Republic of Colombia Comoros CongcvPeople's Republic of the Costa Rica Cyprus Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Ethiopia Fiji Finland France Gabon The Gambia Ge rmany, Federal Republic of Ghana . . . Greece Grenada Guatemala Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Honduras Hong Kong Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Ivory Coast Jamaica Japan Jordan Kampuchea, Democratic* Page 101 104 107 112 119 121 124 127 130 134 135 137 140 144 148 152 154 156 158 162 169 172 174 177 181 187 189 192 194 196 198 199 201 202 205 214 218 221 223 226 229 234 237 240 244 * The Fund has not received f rom the au tho r i t ies of Democratic Kampuchea the in fo rma t ion requ ired for a description of the exchange and t rade system as of December 31, 1980. Vll ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONTENTS Page Page Kenya 247 Korea 251 Kuwait 254 Lao People's Democratic Republic . . .. 256 Lebanon 257 Lesotho 259 Liberia 261 Libyan Arab Jamah i r iya 262 Madagascar 265 Malawi 268 Malaysia 270 Maldives 272 Mali 273 Malta 275 Maur i tan ia 278 Mauritius 280 Mexico 283 Morocco 285 Nepal 289 Netherlands 292 Ne ther lands An t i l les 296 New Zealand 298 Nicaragua 302 Niger 304 Nigeria 307 Norway . . 311 Oman 313 Pakistan 314 Panama 321 Papua New Guinea 322 Paraguay 324 Peru 327 Philippines 334 Portugal 340 Qatar 344 Romania 345 Rwanda 348 St. Lucia 350 St. Vincent and the Grenadines 352 Sao Tome and Principe 354 Saudi Arab ia 356 Senegal 357 Seychelles 360 Sierra Leone 361 Singapore 364 Solomon Islands 366 Somalia 368 South A f r ica 371 Spain 376 Sri L anka 381 Sudan . 386 Sur iname 389 Swaziland 392 Sweden 393 Switzerland 398 Syrian A rab Repub l ic 401 Tanzania 404 Tha i land 406 Togo 409 Trinidad and Tobago 412 Tun is ia 416 Tu rkey 420 Uganda 427 Un i ted Arab Em ira tes 430 Un i ted K ingdom 431 Un i ted States 434 Upper Volta 438 U ruguay 441 Venezuela 443 Viet Nam 446 Western Samoa 448 Yemen Arab Repub l ic 450 Yemen, People's Democratic Republic of 451 Yugoslavia 454 Zaire 459 'Zambia 463 Zimbabwe 466 Summa ry Features of Exchange and Trade Systems in Member Countries 470 viii ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT O NE ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution I. Introduction1 Developments in exchange arrangements and exchange restrictions should be seen against the background of a sharp decline in the growth of world trade and a general widening of payments imbalances in the period under review. In volume terms, the growth of world trade fell to only 1V4 per cent in 1980, the lowest increase registered in five years and far below average rates of growth during the 1970s. Declining activity was responsible for a weakening of import demand in the indus tr ial countries. There was also a marked reduction in the growth of the volume of imports by the non-oil developing coun- tries, notwithstanding a substantial increase in external borrowing at higher costs and a considerable reduction in the real value of their international reserves arising mainly from rapid inflation. The growth of export volume of both the industrial coun- tries and the non-oil developing countries slowed, and although the growth of export earnings of both groups remained high in 1980, it lagged behind the increase in import costs, reflecting in part the impact of oil price increases in 1979 and 1980. The current account positions of a number of industrial and non-oil developing countries thus became increasingly difficult in 1980. The current account deficit of the industrial countries (exclusive of official t ran s fe r s ), which rose more than threefold over the previous year, included a very substantial increase for the smaller countries in this group. The current account of the seven ma jor industrial coun- tries as a group (exclusive of official transfers) can be expected to shift into surplus in 1981, largely because of the slack conditions likely to persist in some of these countries, but the deficit in the smaller industrial countries is likely to remain large. The combined current account deficit of the non-oil developing countries also increased substantially in 1980, to more than twice its size in 1978, and a fur ther sizable increase is in prospect for 1981. The deteriorating external position of the non-oil develop- ing countries in general, including the mounting costs of servicing the large additions to their external debt in recent years, has increased the pressure on many of these countries with liberal exchange and trade systems to adopt restrictive measures, and for those already applying restrictions, to in tens ify them. Compared to the conditions prevailing in the exchange markets of the major industrial coun- tries in most of 1979, exchange rate movements became more volatile in 1980 and early 1981. Despite increased intervention by central banks, and with greater variability of interest rates, the exchange rates among major currencies and currency blocs experienced periods of volatility. The size and speed of exchange rate variations, which were the result of rapidly shifting expectations among market partici- pants, sometimes appeared to be greater than changes in underlying conditions. The substantial variations of the exchange rates of the pound ster- ling, the Japanese yen, and the currencies participat- ing in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS )2 against the U.S. dollar at times exceeded relative current account and interest rate movements. Notwithstand- ing widening disparities in domestic price perfor- mances, the EMS continued to function relatively smoothly in its second year of operation, with occa- sionally substantial intervention in support of weak- ening currencies, transitory resort to its mechanisms of intervention finance, and one readjustment of central rates which resulted from the devaluation of the Ita- lian lira in March 1981. There were no changes with respect to participation in the EMS or its institutional arrangements during the period. While there were numerous downward adjust- ments in the external values of pegged currencies among the developing countries, that group as a whole experienced a fu r ther appreciation of real exchange rates. As detailed in Section II, many of the developing countries that pursued an active exchange rate policy are important exporters of manu fac tu res for which an adequately competitive exchange ra te is particularly significant. Possibly reflecting the increased uncer ta in ty and costs in terms of domestic policy ad jus tment associated with the increased fluctuations of the exchange rates among the major currencies during the period under review, there was a tendency for members to aban- don single currency pegs and to move toward the adoption of pegs on individualized currency baskets. Other developments in exchange regimes, not involv- ing a reclassification of exchange arrangements, included discrete changes in the exchange value of pegged currencies (mostly deva lua t ions ), changes in the mode or pace of change of preannounced exchange rates, ad jus tmen ts of currency baskets determining the exchange value of currencies (with- !This Report centers on exchange arrangements and exchange restrictions, but it also covers other external eco- nomic policy measures and intergovernmental arrangements that may have balance of payments implications. The period covered is 1980 and, where possible, the early part of 1981. 2 The currencies of Belgium, Denmark, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, and Netherlands. 3 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS out necessarily involving a change in the level of the peg ), ad jus tmen ts of margins around the peg, the choice of a d i f fe rent intervention currency, the introduction of a new currency, and other changes in the institutional arrangements for determining exchange rates. Several, mostly South American, countries which attempted to use exchange rate policy to dampen inflationary expectations by pre- announcing f u t u re rates or to reduce inflation by appreciating their currencies in real terms reverted to other, more traditional exchange ra te policies. In an overall setting of excess capacity and rising unemployment, demands for protectionist measures in industrial countries intensified during the period under review. In certain sectors, the need for sub- stantive structural adjustment attained acute levels due to stiffening import competition and a renewed upsurge in energy costs. As reported in greater detail in Section III, the authorities in industrial countries have so far been successful in averting the adoption of generalized restrictions on foreign trade. On the other hand, the widespread weakening of economic activity, exacerbated in a few cases by emerging external payments pressures, has all but stalled progress in the endeavor to provide develop- ing countries more liberal access to the markets in the industrial countries. Actions to buttress the multilateral trad ing system included the adoption of a stronger and permanent Trade Pledge by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) ,3 selective improvements in national schemes of tariff prefer- ences to developing countries, and the provisional acceptances and official ratifications by a growing number of countries of the various agreements to lower tar iff and non ta r i ff barriers, as negotiated in the Tokyo Round of the Multilateral Trade Negoti- ations (MTN) under the auspices of the General Agreement on Tar iffs and Trade (GATT ) .4 The first round of the agreed tar iff reductions on manu- fac tu red products was ins t i tu ted in 1980, and the institutional framework for the implementation of the nontariff agreements became operational. As protectionist pressures intensified, in particular with respect to trade among industrial countries, demands 3 Australia, Aus t r ia, Belgium, Canada, Denma rk, Finland, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zea- land, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, United Kingdom, and United States. 4 The outcome of the Tokyo Round negotiations and the various agreements were described in the Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions, 1980, pages 6-7. 4 for restraint agreements and other protectionist measures have spilled over into new sectors, such as automobiles, electronic equipment, and petrochemi- cals. By early 1981, negotiated or unilateral limita- tions, supplemented in certain cases by antidumping or countervailing duties and subsidies for domestic production, constrained to varying degrees the trade in textiles and clothing, footwear, steel, ships, and certain consumer electronics. For the non-oil developing countries, the fu r ther intensification of payments d iff icu l t ies not only pre- cluded generalized progress toward liberalization of those countries' trade and payments systems but created pressures for some of them to adopt more restrictive external policies. As mentioned below, external payments arrears continued to occur in many of these countries, a point highlighted in last year's Report. In view of the overall circumstances of this group of countries, however, the avoidance of a significant increase in the use of restrictive measures, especially exchange restrictions (see Sec- tion III, be low ), is no tewo r thy and reflects, to an impor tant extent, the ability of the international capital markets to meet their financing needs, as well as the sharply increased financial assistance provided by the Fund in support of comprehensive adjust- ment programs. External payments arrears remained a serious problem in many countries throughout the period covered by this Report. While none of the countries reported as incurring payments arrears in 1979 is known to have eliminated them in 1980 and restored fu l ly a system of prompt paymen ts, the total of arrears outstanding on current and capital payments declined slightly to about SDR 5.3 billion at the end of 1980, represen t ing about 42 per cent of aggregate merchandise exports of the 26 countries concerned. This compares with ou ts tand ing arrears of about SDR 0.7 billion at the end of 1975, representing just under 10 per cent of 1975 exports of the 13 member countries incurr ing arrears at that time. Without the ref inanc ing or rescheduling of a substantial amount of debt service by official and commercial bank creditors of 3 of the countries, the arrears outstand- ing would have continued their upward trend in 1980, instead of registering a moderate decline. In view of its con t inu ing concern over the arrears prob- lem, the Fund conducted a comprehensive review of its policies and procedures on external payments arrears in late 1980 (see Section III.4, below). In other areas of restrictions, import controls were, on balance, tightened with the notable excep- tion of a few countries, predominantly in Asia and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN EXCHANGE RATES AND EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS South America, that initiated or continued ma jor programs to remove or reduce quan t i ta t ive and cost restrictions on imports. On the other hand, revers- ing a development observed in last year's Report, members reduced their reliance on advance import deposit requirements. With respect to exports and export proceeds, subsidized export credits by OECD countries increased substantially. Comparatively few developing countries expanded financial incen- tives to exports. In par t icu lar, d i f f icu lt budge tary situations curtailed the scope for the extension of fiscal incentives. Such measures as were taken were generally tailored to the needs of particular sectors. However, reflecting the widespread balance of pay- ments d iff icu l t ies, there was a notable increase in the tightening of repatriation and surrender require- ments of exchange proceeds f rom exports and other transactions. As in other recent years, countries limiting access to foreign exchange for cu r rent invisi- bles generally increased their exchange allocations, but in the face of generalized price increases, such adjustments in many instances merely served to ma in ta in or re-establish the real value of allocations. Owing partly to the adoption of ad jus tment pro- grams supported by the Fund by a greater number of countries, progress was made du r ing the period under review toward the elimination of multiple currency practices. The number of member countries engaging in multiple currency practices fe ll from 40 in early 1980 to 36 in early 1981. In March 1981 the Fund concluded a comprehensive review of its policies and procedures on multiple currency practices, which led to the adoption of a mod if ied set of guidelines (see Section III.5 and the Annex, below). There was a fu r th er modera te dec l ine in the number of bilateral paymen ts arrangemen ts invo lv ing Fund member countries. Comparatively few measures were taken by indus- trial countries to a f fect capital flows in the period under review. Such measu res as were taken were generally intended to moderate trends in exchange rates and reserve movements. Apa rt from direct official borrowing f rom surplus countries, countries with weakening balance of paymen ts performance tended to remove the remaining controls on inflows and, in some instances, restricted certain outflows toward the end of 1980 and early 1981. As in the past, most of the control measures focused on flows through the banking system. As a result of the recent changes, the major industrial countries are now more open to capital inflows than at any time during the 1970s. Among developing countries, there were only a few fu r ther restrictions on capital ou tf lows. Capital f lows th rough the b a n k i ng system were liberalized by several South American coun- tries. However, as in recent years, most of the l ibera l iz ing measures sought to a t t r a ct cap i tal in the fo rm of d irect foreign inves tmen t. The Execu t ive Board of the Fund dec ided, w i th e f fect f rom Apr il 17, 1980, th at the Government of the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina rep resen ts China in the Fund. W i th the accession to membe rsh ip by Zimbabwe on September 29, 1980, to tal Fund membership increased to 141 countries. Du r ing 1980, 3 countries, D j ibou t i, St. Lucia, and Uruguay, accepted the ob l iga t ions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Articles of Agreement, ra is ing to 53 the number of members th at have formally accepted these ob l iga t ions. E igh ty-seven members, inc lud ing the People's Republic of Ch ina and Zim- babwe, are ava i l ing themselves of the t rans i t ional a r rangemen ts under A r t ic le XIV, Section 2. St. Vin- cent and the G renad ines has not yet ind ica ted its in ten t ion w i th respect to its s ta tus under Article VIII or Article XIV. II. Main Developments in Exchange Rates and Exchange Arrangements Th is section repor ts on ma jor developments in members' exchange ra tes and exchange arrange- men ts as no t if ied to the Fund in accordance with members' obligations under Ar t ic le IV, Section 1, of the Articles of Agreemen t. Developments in respect of mu l t ip le ma rket a r rangemen ts and official measures re su l t ing in d i f f e r ent buy ing or selling rates are summa r ized in a separa te section on mu l t i- ple currency practices. There were no ma jor changes in the institutional a r rangemen ts of or pa r t ic ipa t ion in the EMS du r ing 1980 and early 1981. The Un i ted K ingdom, although forma l ly a member of the EMS, did not elect to p a r t i c ip a te in the exchange ra te and in ter- ven t ion mechan ism, and Italy con t inued to avail i tse lf of the option to m a in t a in, on a temporary basis, w ider fluctuation marg ins of 6 per cent. As a trans i- t ional a r rangemen t, following the d iscon t inua t ion of the one-for-one l ink between the Irish pound and the pound sterling, Ireland operated a mini-band within the ma in EMS band. The m in i-band was progres- sively widened in stages from initially 0.5 per cent un t il it reached the standard EMS band of 4.5 per cent (correspond ing to fluctuation margins of 2.25 per cen t) on June 13, 1980. Thereaf ter, the rate for the Irish pound w i th in the EMS band was determined by the ma rke t. Greece, which became a member of 5 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS the European Community (EC )5 on January 1, 1981 (see Section IV, below), did not, for the time being, participate in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the EMS. However, the Treaty of Accession provides that the drachma will be included in the basket of currencies comprising the European Currency Unit (ECU) during any revision of it which may be made before December 31, 1985. If no such revision takes place, December 31, 1985 is set as the latest date of the drachma's inclusion. In December 1980 the heads of state and govern- ment of the EC countries (the European Council) decided that the establishment of the European Monetary Fund (EMF), originally scheduled for no later than March 1981, should be postponed until an appropriate time and that, meanwhile, work should continue on the second, institutional stage of the EMS and on the gradual development of the use of the ECU. In this connection, it was decided to extend the interim arrangements of the EMS in their present form for a period of two years. Thus, the EC Council of Finance Ministers agreed to extend the Medium-Term Financial Assistance for two years from December 31, 1980, and the EC central bank governors decided to extend the present swap arrangements for a two-year period beyond the original expiration date of March 13, 1981. With effect from March 23, 1981 Italy devalued the lira by 6 per cent against the other currencies participating in the EMS. No other exchange rate adjustments were made during the period under review, but the system became subject to occasional strain and changes occurred in the relative positions of t}ie participating currencies. The Belgian franc breached its diver- gence threshold several times in February-March 1980 and again in February-March 1981, necessitat- ing intervention and tighter monetary measures.6 In 5 The other members are Belgium, Denmark, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, and United Kingdom. 6 Intervention in EMS currencies, which is required in unlimited amounts when bilateral limits are reached, may create claims or liabilities to the very short-term facility of the European Monetary Cooperation Fund (EMCF) which then normally must be settled by the transfer of ECUs or other reserve assets within 45 days of the end of the month in which intervention takes place. The divergence indicator is a measure of the divergence of the market rate expressed in ECU for each EMS currency f rom its ECU central rate. Divergence is permitted as far as the divergence thresholds, which are established for each currency, taking into account its weight in the ECU basket in such a manner that there is broadly the same degree of probability of each EMS cur- rency reaching its threshold. When a threshold is reached, there is a presumption that the authorities concerned will cor- 6 late 1980 and early 1981, the deutsche mark began to ease against other EMS currencies, eventually to the extent of occasionally replacing the Belgian franc at the bottom of the band; from time to time, sup- port for the deutsche mark was required against the French franc and the Netherlands guilder, which for certain periods were the strongest currencies in the system. In respect of credit mechanisms within the EMS, there was moderate resort to the Very Short- Term Financing Facility (VSTF) in order to support certain currencies —mainly the Belgian franc and, to a lesser extent, the deutsche mark. In the period under review, the U.S. dollar appre- ciated considerably against the EMS currencies and the Swiss f ranc but depreciated against the pound sterling and the Japanese yen. The U.S. dollar's per- formance was influenced to a large degree by the strengthening of the current account, and by interest rate movements. Following an initial strengthening due to rapidly rising domestic interest rates and the announcement of an anti-inflation program in March 1980, the U.S. dollar eased as interest rates on U.S. dollar-denominated assets fell sharply in April 1980. When interest rates on such assets began to rise again around mid-1980, the U.S. dollar resumed its firm- ing against most major currencies, with the exception of the pound sterling and the Japanese yen. In nomi- nal end-of-year terms, the EMS currencies and the Swiss f ranc depreciated against the U.S. dollar by between 10.5 per cent and 13.6 per cent during 1980, while the pound sterling and the Japanese yen appreciated by 7.2 per cent and 18.1 per cent, respectively. In the first quarter of 1981, the U.S. dollar appreciated against all the afore-mentioned currencies by between 4.0 per cent (against the Japanese yen) and 13.3 per cent (against the Italian l i ra ). As in 1978, but in contrast to 1979, there were sizable movements in the effective exchange rates 7 of most of the currencies of the industrial countries rect the situation by diversified intervention, measures of domestic monetary policy, changes in central rates, or other economic policy measures. 7 Based on the Fund's multilateral exchange rate model (M ERM ), in which the implicit weighting structure takes account of the relative importance of a country's trading par tners in its direct bilateral relationships with them, of competitive relationships with "third countries" in particular markets, and of estimated elasticities affecting trade flows. Changes in effective exchange rates derived from MERM may d i f fer from estimated effective exchange rate changes based on changes in trade-weighted exchange rate indices for which the relative importance of the exchange rate changes of particular countries is measured in terms of these coun- tries' shares in bilateral trade of the country in question. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN EXCHANGE RATES AND EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS in 1980. In effective end-of-year terms, the largest appreciations in 1980 were recorded for the Jap- anese yen, the pound sterling, and the Australian dollar, which rose by 23.2 per cent, 12.0 per cent, and 9.8 per cent, respectively. The U.S. dollar gained 2.0 per cent in effective terms, while the Canadian dollar, the Norwegian krone, and the Swedish krona eased by between 1.1 per cent and 2.4 per cent. On the other hand, the EMS currencies, the Austrian schilling, and the Swiss f ranc depreci- ated by between 4.5 per cent and 9.5 per cent. Dur- ing the first quar ter of 1981, changes in effective rates included a strong appreciation of the U.S. dollar by 5.3 per cent and depreciations of the deutsche mark (1.0 per cen t ), the French franc (3.6 per cen t ), the Japanese yen (0.3 per cen t ), the pound sterling (0.7 per c en t ), and the Swiss franc (3.1 per cen t ). During the period under review, six members notified changes in exchange arrangements involving reclassification under the Fund's classification scheme for exchange arrangements (Table 1). In addition, initial notifications were received from the People's Republic of China and from Zimbabwe. The general trend of the notifications was away f rom single cur- rency pegs and toward individualized basket pegs. Iran decided in May 1980 to peg the rial directly to the SDR and determine the exchange rates of individual currencies daily on the basis of the SDR- rial peg and the rates for each currency in terms of the SDR as declared by the Fund. Previously, the Iranian rial had also been pegged to the SDR, but its exchange rate had been maintained within a target zone above and below the fixed central ra te; these target zones were based on the relative purchasing power of the rial vis-a-vis that of the currencies of Iran's major trading partners and other basic under- lying economic conditions. Three members announced exchange arrange- ments involving a peg to a currency composite other than the SDR. Botswana, which previously pegged its currency to the U.S. dollar, began in June 1980 to peg the pula to a basket of currencies consisting of the South African rand and the SDR. In August 1980 the People's Republic of China notified the Fund that the exchange rate of its currency, the renminbi, is determined on the basis of the value of a basket of internationally traded currencies, weighted with reference to their importance in China's external transactions and trends in their relative values. Exchange rates are calculated for a number of specified currencies on a daily basis, and new rates are published whenever the calculated rate deviates f rom the previously published rate by l/2 per cent for the currencies used frequently in China's external transactions or by 1 per cent for other currencies. Zimbabwe notified the Fund in October 1980 that the Zimbabwe dollar was linked to a basket of currencies weighted according to the currencies used in settlements. The currency weights in the basket are reviewed from time to time as settlement patterns emerge. In August 1980 Peru joined the group of member countries ad jus t ing their exchange rates according to a set of indicators. It discontinued the practice of advance announcement of the exchange rate of the sol in terms of the U.S. dollar and adopted a system under which the sol is depreciated f requen t ly in line with relative price movements between Peru and its ma jor trading partners. The particular fea tu res of the new exchange arrangements announced by the remaining three members led to their reclassification in the residual category "Other". Costa Rica informed the Fund in December that the dual exchange market established in September 1980 had been unified and that, as a temporary exchange arrangement, the colon had been allowed to float. All transactions, with the exception of external debt service payments of the Central Government, certain other previously approved private current invisibles, and other cen- tral government payments abroad, would be negoti- ated at the free market ra te; until the end of 1981, exempted payments would be made at the previous official selling rate.8 In February 1980 Korea ceased to peg the won to the U.S. dollar and began to deter- mine the exchange rate of the won on the basis of a currency basket composed of the SDR and a trade- weighted composite of currencies representing Korea's main trading partners. However, other factors would also be taken into account, if neces- sary, in establishing the rate of the won. Finally, Morocco adopted a flexible exchange arrangement beginning in September 1980. At that time, the authorities also changed the composition and weights of the currencies included in the basket used to determine the exchange ra te of the dirham to reflect both the trade pattern and the currencies used in settlement. At the end of March 1981, the currencies of 58 members were pegged to one currency (40 to the 8 In early March 1981, however, Costa Rica re-established a dual exchange market consisting of an official market in which the colon was pegged to the U.S. dollar and a parallel market in which the colon f luc tua ted freely. Subsequently, in Apr il 1981, the exchange market was reunified on the basis of a flexible exchange rate system. 7 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS U.S. dollar, 14 to the French franc, 2 to the South African rand, and 1 each to the pound sterling and the Spanish peseta). Fifteen currencies were pegged to the SDR and another 22 to other currency com- posites. With respect to the other members, 4 were adjusting their exchange rate according to a set of indicators, 8 were maintaining cooperative exchange arrangements within the EMS, and 33 were main- taining other exchange arrangemen ts9 (Table 1). 9 No current information is available on Democratic Kampuchea. Table 1. Exchange Arrangements of Member Countries on March 31, 1981 * Currency Pegged to Other currency Equatorial Gu inea2 The Gambia* Lesotho6 Swaziland6 French f ranc Benin Cameroon Central African Rep. Chad Comoros Congo Gabon Ivory Coast Madagascar Mali Niger Senegal Togo Upper Volta SDR Burma Guinea Guinea- Bissau Iran Jordan Kenya Malawi Mauritius Sao Tome and Principe Seychelles Sierra Leone Uganda Viet Nam Zaire Zambia13 Exchange Rate Ad jus ted According to a Set of Indicators Brazil Colombia Peru Portugal Other currency composite Algeria Austria Bangladesh5 Botswana Cape Verde China, People's Rep. of Cyprus Fiji Finland n Kuwait Malaysia Malta Mauritania Norway Papua New Guinea Singapore Solomon Islands Sweden Tanzania Thailand Tunisia Zimbabwe Cooperative Exchange Arrangements Other A r rangemen ts Belgium Denmark France Germany, Fed. Rep. of Ireland Italy10 Luxembourg Netherlands Afghanistan Argen t ina3 Australia Bahra in7 Bolivia Canada8 Ghana Greece8 Iceland India ** Indonesia Israel8 Japan8 Korea Lebanon8 Maldives Mexico Morocco New Zealand Nigeria Philippines Qatar7 Saudi Arabia7 South Africa8 Spain Sri Lanka Turkey United Arab Emirates7 United Kingdom8 United States8 Uruguay3 Western Samoa Yugoslavia U.S. dollar Bahamas Barbados Burundi Chile Costa Rica Djibouti Dominica e Domican Rep. Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Ethiopia Grenada9 Guatemala Guyana Haiti Honduras Iraq Jamaica Lao People's Dem. Rep. Liberia Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Nepal" Nicaragua Oman Pakistan Panama Paraguay Romania Rwanda Somalia St. Lucia9 St. Vincent and the Grenadines9 Sudan Suriname Syrian Arab Rep. Trinidad and Tobago Venezuela Yemen Arab Rep. Yemen, People's Dem. Rep. of 1 No current information is available on Democratic Kampuchea. 2 Pegged to the Spanish peseta. 3 Member maintains a system of advance announcement of exchange rates. 4 Pegged to the pound sterling. 5 Changes in the exchange rate generally occur when the effective exchange rate, as calculated on the basis of the weighted currency basket, deviates by more than plus or minus 1 per cent f rom the pegged level. 6 Pegged to the South African rand. 7 Exchange rates are determined on the basis of a fixed relationship to the SDR, within margins of up to plus or minus 7.25 per cent. 8 Official exchange rates are not fixed or quoted. 9 The currency is the East Caribbean dollar. 10 Margins of plus or minus 6 per cent are maintained with respect to the currencies of other countries participating in the exchange rate mechanism of the European Monetary System. 11 The fluctuation band of the Bank of Finland's currency index is currently about 6 per cent (equivalent to margins of plus or minus 3 per cent). 12 The exchange rate is maintained within margins of 5 per cent on either side of a weighted composite of the currencies of the main trading partners. 13 The exchange rate is maintained within margins of plus or minus 2.5 per cent in terms of the fixed relationship between the kwacha and the SDR. 14 A fixed rate for the Nepalese rupee is also maintained vis-a-vis the Indian rupee. 8 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN EXCHANGE RATES AND EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS Numerous modifications of exchange arrange- ments which did not entail a change in the Fund's classification of the arrangements concerned were also notified to the Fund during the period under review. Such modifications can be broadly grouped into discrete adjustments in the exchange value of pegged currencies, changes in the mode or pace of change of preannounced exchange rates, adjustments of currency baskets determining the exchange value of currencies (without necessarily involving a change in the level of the peg ), adjustments of margins around the peg, the choice of a d ifferent intervention currency, the introduction of new currencies, and changes in the institutional arrangements for deter- mining exchange rates. A large number of members lowered the external value of their currency. While in most instances devaluations were sizable and reflected the need to correct appreciations in real terms that had taken place over a number of years, some countries devalued their currencies more frequently without, however, being guided by an explicit set of indi- cators. This included a small number of countries which preannounced their exchange rates so as to reduce uncertainty and to affect inflationary expec- tations. Bangladesh devalued the middle rate of the taka in terms of the pound sterling, the inter- vention currency, on three occasions in July and October (twice) 1980 by a cumulative total of 10.8 per cent. In February and March 1981, however, the taka's middle rate in terms of the pound sterling was adjusted twice, resulting in an appreciation of 3.6 per cent vis-a-vis that currency but a deprecia- tion in terms of the SDR and the U.S. dollar of 1.3 percent and 3.5 per cent, respectively. In June 1980 Equatorial Guinea devalued its currency by 50 per cent against the Spanish peseta, to which it is pegged. Kenya, whose currency is pegged to the SDR, reduced the value of the shilling against the SDR by 4.8 per cent in February 1981. In January 1980 Korea devalued the won by 16.6 per cent against the U.S. dollar, to which the won was pegged before the adoption of an individualized basket in February 1980. Also in January 1980 the Lao People's Dem- ocratic Republic changed the official exchange rate for the kip from KN 4 per US$1 to KN 10 per US$1. At the start of 1981 Romania implemented a set of measures which amounted to a devaluation, on average, of the leu for trade and trade-related trans- actions. While the nominal exchange rate for such transactions was revalued from lei 18 per US$1 to lei 15 per US$1, the system of equalization payments which were designed to make the leu value of all exports and the leu cost of some imports equal to the domestic leu value of the goods concerned was terminated.10 The Solomon Islands informed the Fund that in March 1981 the exchange value of the Solomon Islands dollar was reduced by about 6 per cent in terms of its intervention currency, the Aus- tralian dollar, to SI$1 = $A 1; this change brought the exchange value of the Solomon Islands dollar back to the level prevailing before the May 1979 revaluation. In Janua ry 1980 Turkey devalued the lira by 33 per cent in terms of the U.S. dollar for most transactions while establishing a preferential exchange rate for imports of fertilizer and insecti- cides as well as for inputs for their domestic produc- tion (see Section III.5, below). During the remainder of 1980, the Turkish lira was devalued seven more times vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar for a total depreciation of the basic rate of 60.8 per cent in 1980. In the first quarter of 1981 the value of the Turkish lira vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar was adjusted three times, resulting in a cumulative depreciation of 6.7 per cent. Viet Nam, whose currency is pegged to the SDR, devalued the dong by 13.2 per cent in November 1980. Yugoslavia, which until Febru- ary 1981 maintained a fluctuating exchange rate, depreciated the dinar by 23.1 per cent on June 7, 1980; in 1980 as a whole, the middle rate of the dinar vis-&-vis the U.S. dollar depreciated by 34.6 per cent. Within the context of stabilization pro- grams supported by the Fund, Zaire devalued the zaire against the SDR by 30 per cent in February 1980 and by 40 per cent in June 1981. India, which maintains the value of its currency within 5 per cent of a weighted basket of currencies of its ma jor trading partners, frequently changed the exchange rate of the rupee against its intervention currency, the pound sterling, for a cumulative depre- ciation of 5.6 per cent during 1980. Countries which frequently changed the exchange rate of their cur- rency without following strictly an explicit set of indicators and their cumulative rates of change in 1980 against their intervention currency, the U.S. dollar, were Iceland (a depreciation of 36.7 per cen t ), Korea (a depreciation of 26.7 per cen t), and New Zealand (an appreciation of 2.5 per cen t ). In addition, Brazil, Colombia, Portugal, and, since August 1980, Peru adjusted their exchange rates 10 In late January 1981 Romania lowered the premium applied to the official rate of lei 4.47 per US$1 with respect to purchases and sales of currencies from nonsocialist coun- tries and Yugoslavia for nontrade transactions, with the result that the rate for such transactions became lei 11 per US$1 instead of lei 12 per US$1 previously. 9 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS frequently by small amounts on the basis of a set of indicators. The cumulative rates of devaluation against the U.S. dollar of the currencies of the afore- mentioned countries during 1980 were 35.1 per cent, 13.6 per cent, 6.1 per cent, and 26.8 per cent, respec- tively. In the case of Peru, this total includes pre- announced end-of-month exchange rates until July 1980, when Peru ceased to preannounce its exchange rate three months in advance. Chile, which had abandoned in mid-1979 the advance announcement of its exchange rate in favor of a fixed rate of the peso vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar until February 1980, announced in January 1980 that the fixed rate would be maintained indefinitely. A few modifications were adopted by the coun- tries relying on advance announcement of their exchange rates. Argentina ceased at the start of 1980 to adjust the exchange rate of the peso in accordance with preannounced schedules of daily buying rates. Instead, the peso was to be devalued by 2.8 per cent in January 1980, to be followed by adjustments that would be 0.2 percentage points smaller each month, a procedure which would have resulted in exchange rate stability after March 1981. In September 1980, however, Argentina decided, in light of a strong real appreciation of the peso, to avoid any fu r ther deceleration of the monthly rate of devaluation by applying the rate of devaluation of 1 per cent originally scheduled for October also to November and the following months. In December this arrangement was confirmed for the spot buying rate, while the spot selling rate was to be increased by 2 per cent each month during the first three months of 1981. The Central Bank would sell foreign exchange if the announced selling rate is reached, and it would buy or sell foreign exchange if the announced buying rate or selling rate, respectively, is reached. In February 1981 the peso was devalued by 9.1 per cent vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar, and the spot selling and buying regulation rates were adjusted accordingly. At the same time, Argentina reverted to announcing daily rates by publishing a schedule of regulation rates through the end of August 1981. According to the schedule, the selling rate increases by 3 per cent a month during the period and the buying rate rises by 2 per cent a month during February-March 1981 and by 3 per cent a month for the remainder of the period. Following a two-day closure of the exchange market, the spot buying and selling rates of the peso were depreciated by 24.5 per cent and 23.2 per cent, respectively, on April 2, 1981; moreover, it was announced that the exchange rate of the peso would be adjusted by small amounts at frequent intervals 10 and that the Central Bank would determine the spot buying and selling regulation rates for the U.S. dollar. On June 2, 1981 the spot buying and selling rates of the peso were depreciated by about 23 per cent, and it was announced that the Argentine peso would be fur ther depreciated by about 6 per cent in the course of June. Brazil, which is classified as ad jus t ing its currency according to a set of indicators, announced devaluation targets for 1980 as a whole and for the period July 1980- June 1981. In November 1980, however, the Bra- zilian authorities announced that they would discon- tinue, f rom the beginning of 1981, the practice of announcing devaluation targets. Portugal, also classified as ad jus t ing its currency according to a set of indicators, lowered the preannounced monthly rate of depreciation of the escudo in effec t ive terms f rom 0.75 per cent to 0.5 per cent in July 1980. Uruguay announced in May 1980 that the new peso would be depreciated by 15 per cent in the course of 1980. At the end of 1980 the target rate of depreciation during the first five months of 1981 was set at 6.48 per cent. In the meantime, in September 1980, a new schedule of daily buying and selling rates for Janua ry and February 1981 had been pub- lished, which implied a 2.8 per cent devaluation against the U.S. dollar for that period. In the first quar ter of 1981, monthly schedules until the end of September 1981 were published, indicating a cumu- lative depreciation of the new peso against the U.S. dollar of 11.4 per cent during the first nine months of 1981. Revaluations, which occurred less frequen t ly than devaluations, involved generally small adjustments in the external value of the currencies concerned. Botswana revalued the pula by about 5.3 per cent against its currency basket in November 1980. In March 1980 Finland revalued the markka by 2 per cent within the posted fluctuation limits, to reflect the average change in the exchange rate of the cur- rencies most important for Finland's foreign trade. Also in March 1980, a revision of Malta's currency basket resulted in a minor appreciation of the Malta pound both against the U.S. dollar and in effective terms. In early April the continued strength of the U.S. dollar triggered a new ad jus tment in the basket formu la which resulted in a 4.3 per cent apprecia- tion of the Malta pound against the U.S. dollar. As the maintenance of the new basket would have resulted in a fu r ther appreciation of 6 per cent by late April, the Maltese authorities reverted to the basket introduced in March 1980, which limited the additional appreciation against the U.S. dollar to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES 1.5 per cent. In March 1981, following the devalua- tion of the Italian lira, that currency was removed from the basket, and its weight was allotted to the U.S. dollar and the Japanese yen. This adjustment resulted in a 0.5 per cent appreciation of the Malta pound vis-a-vis the currencies in the basket. While continuing its policy of depreciating the escudo by small amounts each month against a basket of cur- rencies, Portugal revalued the escudo by 6 per cent in effective terms in February 1980. In the same month Nepal, which maintains a dual market for the U.S. dollar, raised its second official exchange rate by 14.3 per cent against the U.S. dollar while simultaneously reducing the coverage of transactions through the basic market. In August Nepal appreci- ated the buying rate for banknotes by 2.6 per cent in the case of the U.S. dollar and by 1 per cent in the case of other major currencies. In the course of 1980 and early 1981, the currencies of Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates were adjusted upward in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency. Although pegged to the SDR, the three countries maintain margins not exceeding 7.25 per cent around their pegs. As part of a package of measures to combat inflation, Seychelles revalued its exchange rate in terms of the SDR by 15 per cent in March 1981. Four members adjusted the currency baskets on which their exchange rates are based. Cape Verde reduced the number of currencies composing its basket from 11 to 9 in January 1980. As mentioned previously, in March 1980 Malta initially revised its basket in order to take into account the flow of trade in 1979 as well as the past and prospective cost of oil imports. The subsequent changes, including the removal of the Italian lira in March 1981, were aimed at steering a middle course between strong and weak currencies. When devaluing the Solomon Islands dollar in March 1981, the Solomon Islands changed the weights of the 4 currencies in the basket to which the Solomon Islands dollar is pegged, to reflect settlement rather than trade patterns. In accordance with recent practice, Sweden updated in April 1980 the weights of its currency basket to take account of average shares on the basis of trade statistics for the last five calendar years. Two countries which do not maintain the exchange rate of their currency within announced margins notified the Fund that they were using currency baskets to guide them in the setting of exchange rates. In February 1981 Iceland began to let the rate of the krona follow the trade and payments- weighted average of exchange rates. The Icelandic authorities consider this temporary practice, which was adopted mainly because of the unsettled exchange rate situation in early 1981, as one of several guidelines for the conduct of exchange rate policy. Also in February 1981, Yugoslavia per- mitted the exchange rate of the dinar to fluctuate within margins of 8 per cent around a basket of 11 currencies representing the relative importance of those currencies in Yugoslavia's total payments. Within the band, the exchange rate of the dinar is determined in accordance with certain indicators, such as relative producer prices and Yugoslavia's current account position. Two countries, whose currencies are pegged to country-specific currency baskets, adjusted the mar- gins around the peg. Bangladesh raised the margins for fluctuations of the effective exchange rate of the taka in January 1980 from plus or minus 2.5 per cent to plus or minus 3.5 per cent. However, together with the devaluation of the taka in terms of the pound sterling in October 1980, the margins were reduced to plus or minus 1 per cent. In Janu- ary 1980 Finland reduced the upper and lower fluctuation limits of its currency index from 121 and 114 to 119 and 112, respectively. The previously mentioned revaluation of the markka in March 1980 was effected within the new fluctuation limits. There was only one change in intervention cur- rency notified during the review period when Papua New Guinea replaced the Australian dollar with the U.S. dollar for this purpose in April 1980. New currencies' were introduced by four members. In March 1981 Equatorial Guinea replaced the ekuele by a new currency, the epkwele, at the rate of one to one. At the start of 1981 Iceland issued a new monetary unit. Although the official name, the krona, was retained for the new unit, its value is one hundred times that of the old one. The new krona is divided into 100 aurar. Old notes and coins were to remain legal tender until mid-1981, but the Cen- tral Bank was prepared to exchange new currency for old un t il the end of 1982. In February 1980 Israel introduced a new national currency, the shekel, equivalent to ten times the Israel pound, which it is to replace after a transitional period during which both currencies will circulate with each other. Finally, Lesotho began issuing a national currency, the maloti, in January 1980. The maloti is pegged at par to the South African rand, which continues to be legal tender. III. Main Developments in Restrictive Practices 1. Imports and Import Payments a. Quantitative Import Controls Despite a marked increase in protectionist pres- 11 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS sures originating from falling demand, excess capac- ity, and import competition, the industrial countries avoided recourse to comprehensive controls on imports during the review period. Resistance to such pressures was facilitated by a commitment by national governments to an open trading system, as manifested by the decision of the OECD countries in June 1980 to replace the annual trade pledges under- taken since 1974 with a permanent and more com- prehensive Trade Pledge. Also, agreements reached in the Tokyo Round of the MTN generally strength- ened the framework for the conduct of international trade. Nevertheless, trade-restrictive measures once again tended to be applied selectively to certain coun- tries and sectors. At the level of certain indus- tries considered impor tant in terms of employment or national security, existing restrictions were main- tained or intensified, such as for footwear, textiles, and steel, while pressures emerged for extending con- trols to other sectors, such as electronic equipment, petrochemicals, and automobiles. In contrast to pre- vious years, new protectionist pressures arose in trade among industrial countries. The decision by the EC to subject Japanese exports of automobiles, color tele- vision sets and tubes, and certain mach ine tools to statistical ex post surveillance beginning in March 1981 is a case in point. These developments in industrial countries contributed to a slowing expan- sion of world trade which, along with the sharp growth of energy import bills, brought about balance of paymen ts pressures in many non-oil developing countries, which, on balance, increased the ir recourse to quan t i ta t ive import restrictions. International trade in textiles and clothing con- tinued to be regulated by the second Multifiber Arrangement (MFA) negotiated under the auspices of the GATT, which covers the period 1978-81. There were no ma jor changes in the operation of most bilateral restraint agreements, which had been negotiated for multi-year periods generally ending in 1981 or 1982 within the framework of the MFA between the principal industrial importing countries and exporting developing countries. Eight new bilateral agreements under Article 4 of the MFA, which permits the imposition of restrictions for the purpose of eliminating the risk of market disruptions, 11 The agreements were concluded between the following pairs of countries or territories: Austria and Hong Kong, Canada and India, Canada and Malaysia, Finland and India, Finland and Korea, Sweden and Yugoslavia, United States and Malaysia, and United States and Sri Lanka. 12 were notified by signatories to the Textile Surveil- lance Body between January-September 1980.11 In addition, the United States negotiated new bilateral agreements with two nonsignatories.12 Also with respect to textiles, the Benelux countries and Thailand signed an agreement on ju te yarn incorporating export restraint provisions. In March 1980 the EC replaced quan t i ta t ive restrictions on ju te fabr ics f rom Bangladesh and India with volun- tary export res t ra int agreements with the two coun- tries covering the period 1981-83. France subjected imports of velvets and fu rs to a new administrative control system and required strict labeling of imported textiles as to the country of origin. Finland extended m in imum import prices for certain clothing items th rough 1980. Ireland introduced surveillance of impor ts for clothing of non-EC origin. No rway extended its global quotas on textile imports through the end of 1981. Spain imposed quotas on synthetic fibers f rom France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Under au tho r i ty from the Commission of the EC, the United Kingdom in February 1980 imposed import quotas on two types of synthetic fibers from countries other than members of the European Free Trade Association (EFTA),13 preferen t ial countries, or countries w i th which the EC ma in ta ined bilateral agreements under the MFA. The measure, which a f fec ted primarily U.S. exports, was withdrawn at the end of 1980. In contrast to the generally restric- tive trend, New Zealand removed or reduced pro- tective measures on a number of textile products. Imports of steel remained subject to controls in ma jor indus t r ial countries. Modifications and a few new restrictions were introduced by the EC, the Un i ted States, and some other countries. The EC raised its basic reference prices 14 governing imports from nonmember countries in 1980 by between 2 per cent and 5 per cent over 1979 levels for ordinary steel and by about 16 per cent for special alloy steels. The EC also negotiated or renewed 13 bilateral agree- ments w i th ma jor supplier countries incorporating unders tand ings on both the volume of exports to the EC and the observance of the rules on reference 12 The People's Repub l ic of China and Costa Rica. 13 Aus tr ia, Iceland, Norway, Por tuga l, Sweden, and Switzerland. Finland is an associate member. 14 The basic reference prices reflect the lowest production costs in an exporting country in which normal conditions of competition are deemed to exist. Whenever import delivery prices f a ll below these reference prices, provisional anti- dump ing duties may be assessed, except on products covered by bilateral agreements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES prices.15 In July 1980 the EC assessed a provisional antidumping du ty on imports of seamless steel tubes from Spain. In October 1980 the deteriorating per- formance of the EC steel industry led to the imposition, for the first time since the formation of the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) in 1952, of com- pulsory production cutbacks within the EC. As mandatory quarterly production quotas for EC steel producers in the first half of 1981 were set at about 20 per cent below production in the same period in 1980, corresponding cutbacks on imports will be negotiated for 1981 with supplier countries with which agreements were concluded for 1980. In addition, the EC is negotiating new agreements with other coun- tries, such as Korea and certain East European coun- tries, whose exports were not restrained in 1980. The United States reinstated in October 1980 a modified trigger price mechanism for steel imports which featured a new "surge" mechanism.16 Under the original trigger price mechanism, which had been in effect since February 1978 un t il its suspension in March 1980, steel imports whose prices fell below periodically adjusted price floors au toma t ica l ly trig- gered an antidumping investigation. Trigger prices were raised by 12 per cent on average in October 1980 compared w i th March 1980; they were subse- quently increased by another 0.9 per cent in the first quar ter of 1981 and by 4.4 per cent in the second quarter. In other measures affec t ing trade in steel, the United States phased out quotas on specialty steel products in February 1980. However, specialty steel was placed under an import monitor- ing program similar to the "surge" mechanism of the trigger price mechanism in Janua ry 1981. Among other countries, Aus tra l ia and Mexico tightened quantitative controls on certain steel products. Restrictions on the import of selected other items were introduced by several indus t r ial countries. Australia slightly reduced the quotas on passenger automobiles and in troduced quotas on certain u t i l i ty vehicles. It also required licenses for cer ta in foot- 15 Agreements with Aus tra l ia, Aus t r ia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Finland, Hungary, Japan, Norway, Poland, Romania, Spain, and Sweden were in e f fect in 1980. 16 The "surge" mechanism operates only when U.S. indus try capacity u t i l iza t ion is below 87 per cent. When, in addition, imports of steel products exceed 13.7 per cent of domestic consumption, the U.S. Commerce Depar tment reviews the situation to de term ine if the trigger price mechanism is evaded whenever the re appears to be an extraordinary increase ("surge") in one or more steel products. If the import penetration ra t io exceeds 15.2 per cent, and there appears to be a "surge" in imports, an investigation is initiated to de term ine the existence of dumping or subsidization. wear and raised the threshold price above which foo twear becomes exempt from licensing. Canada extended for one year its quan t i ta t ive restrictions on the import of most types of footwear. The EC also renewed its vo lun tary export res tra int agreements with Korea on nonleather foo twear to the United Kingdom for 1980-81; similar agreements for particu- lar types of footwear imports to Ireland were renewed for 1981-82. Concurrently, au tonomous quotas in the United K ingdom on imports of all shoes and in Ireland for certain types of foo twear f rom Czecho- slovakia, Poland, and Taiwan were renewed for 1981. Dur ing the period under review, the EC introduced a surveillance system for imports of mushrooms and suspended the issuing of licenses for such imports or ig ina t ing in cer ta in countries. Spain suspended its liberalization of cheese imports, and the United K ingdom prohibited the impo r ta t ion of new potatoes f rom Spain and Greece. The United States tempo- ra r i ly imposed quotas on imports of anhyd rous ammonia f rom the U.S.S.R. and extended expiring orderly ma rke t ing agreemen ts (OMA) on color television sets w i th Korea and Taiwan, with increased quo tas for two add i t ional years to June 1982. On the other hand, the 1977 OMA w i th Japan was allowed to lapse at its expiry in mid-1980 fo l low ing a de te rm ina t ion by the U.S. In te rna t ional Trade Commission that the domestic indu s t ry would not be in ju red by the l i f t ing of the restriction. The Un i ted States also prohibited all imports f rom Iran in April 1980 and in November 1980 imposed an embargo on tuna impor ts from Ecuador. Japan continued to make s ign if icant progress in d isman t l ing ma rket barriers. It l i f ted quotas on ten items, opened procurement of its te lecommun ica t ions indus t ry to foreign b idd ing under an agreement reached w i th the United States, and au thor ized the Japanese Indus t r ial S tandards Ma rk ing for 1,100 categories of impor ted goods if they meet with Japanese specifications. It also reached an agree- ment with Canada in June 1980 to reduce quantita- tive restrictions on imports of cer ta in leather items which had been in e f fect since 1952. Among other indus t r ial countries, import licensing systems were relaxed in Finland and New Zealand. A number of developing countries relaxed their import regimes. Where such liberalizations were subs tan t ia l, they tended to be taken in conjunction w i th ma jor ad ju s tment programs which were sup- ported by use of the Fund's resources. In December, Pakistan removed licensing ceilings on all permitted imports, except for consumer goods and synthetic yarn, and added more than 120 basic raw materials 13 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS to the lists of permitted imports. Peru accelerated and completed in September 1980 the process of freeing its import system. Following substantial liberalization in late 1979 and especially in 1980, almost all imports may now be made freely. The Phil- ippines added a large number of items to the list of freely importable commodities and relaxed approval controls on imports of aircraft and cocoa. Sri Lanka also made headway in reducing its list of imports subject to prior approval, while Venezuela removed the licensing requirement for a large number of imports. Import restrictions on specific products were lifted or relaxed by a number of other develop- ing countries, often for reasons other than the respective countries' overall payments position. The countries included Argentina, Bolivia, Ecuador, Fiji, India, Indonesia, Korea, Morocco, Nepal, Papua New Guinea, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, South Africa, Thailand, Turkey, Uruguay, and Yugoslavia. Egypt disinvoked GATT Article XXXV with respect to Portugal. As a result, Egypt restored the application of the GATT agreement in its trade with Portugal. The generally difficult balance of payments situa- tion for developing countries caused many of them to tighten quantitative import controls. Comprehen- sive licensing requirements for imports were intro- duced in Malta and Sierra Leone. Licensing on certain categories of imports was introduced in Fiji, Mexico, and Seychelles, while prior authorization for certain imports was imposed in Ecuador, Mauritania, Senegal, and the Yemen Arab Republic. Mauritania also established quotas for several imports while sus- pending the imports of many other products, some of which could be produced domestically. Bolivia prohibited the importation of a variety of manufac- tured products. Iran imposed <a ban on luxury imports. Imports of passenger automobiles and certain other motor vehicles and parts became sub- ject to quotas or outright bans in many developing countries. Costa Rica, Ecuador, Ghana, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Niger, and Western Samoa pro- hibited imports of certain motor vehicles, while Barbados and Mauritania subjected them to quotas. Grenada required prior authorization for the impor- tation of any motor vehicle with an engine capacity exceeding 1,600 cubic centimeters. Other countries which tightened quantitive import restrictions on other products included India, Indonesia, Ivory Coast, and Nepal. Many countries lifted restrictions on transactions with Zimbabwe (formerly Rhodesia) in 1980 and early 1981 in line with a United Nations Security Council resolution of October 1979 to that effect. 14 b. Import Surcharges and Import Taxation There were relatively few major trade actions relating directly to the use of import surcharges during the period under review. Following a reduc- tion from 12.5 per cent to 7.5 per cent in 1979, the common import surcharge in Botswana, Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland was eliminated in March 1980. Peru abolished a 10 per cent surcharge on food items, which had been in effect since May 1978, and eliminated a 1 per cent surcharge on a large number of customs items. In an effort to cushion the impact of the removal of quantitative restrictions, Peru also applied temporary surcharges of 10 per cent and 20 per cent ad valorem on the import of certain finished textiles and clothing items as well as electrical appliances. These surcharges were introduced in January and February 1980 and withdrawn in May and October 1980, respectively. Turkey reduced the stamp duty on imports from a maximum of 25 per cent to 1 per cent for all imports except luxury goods, which remained subject to a 100 per cent stamp duty. Special import fees or duties in the form of surcharges were introduced or raised in other countries. Cyprus increased the sur- charge on all imports to 3.5 per cent, except for certain essential and public sector imports. In Sep- tember 1980 Liberia introduced surcharges of 25 per cent on luxury goods and 15 per cent on most other impor ts; it also imposed import fees of 7.5 per cent on duty-free and transshipment goods, 5 per cent on duty-paid goods (excluding essential goods), and 1.5 per cent on duty-paid essential goods. Mauritius raised the import fee to 5 per cent from 2 per cent and imposed a 10 per cent surcharge on all imports. Thailand introduced temporary sur- charges ranging from 10 per cent to 50 per cent on a variety of imports. Other developing countries which introduced or raised surcharges were Costa Rica, St. Lucia, and Sierra Leone. In the case of Costa Rica, however, all surcharges were subse- quently reduced to a uniform level of 1 per cent. Tariff reductions negotiated in the Tokyo Round of the MTN began to be implemented at the start of 1980 by most of the countries that have accepted the Geneva Protocol of 1979 and the Supplementary Protocol.17 In the case of the nine major industrial 17 By the end of 1980, the following 23 countries had fu l ly accepted the Geneva Protocol: Argentina, Austria, Czechoslovakia, EC countries except Belgium (i.e., Den- mark, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, and United K ingdom ), Finland, Hungary, Iceland, Jamaica, Japan, New Zealand, Norway, Romania, South Africa, Sweden, Switzerland, and United ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES markets, the total agreed reductions in tar iffs on manufactured products of about one third are expected to lower the average tariff rate from 7 per cent to about 4.7 per cent by January 1, 1987. In addition to the tariff actions related to the Tokyo Round, several industrial countries implemented further tariff liberalization measures during the period under review. Australia reduced tar iffs on a variety of manufactured products and abolished duties on certain Pharmaceuticals. Following dis- cussions with the United States on trade in automo- biles, Japan decided to eliminate duties on most automotive parts in April 1981. Spain extended through January 1982 the substantial temporary reductions in both ad valorem and specific import duties introduced in April 1979. The United States reduced the specific duty on sugar imports in Febru- ary 1980 in response to rising sugar prices in the world market. Tariff reductions also resulted from agreements reached by EFTA with Spain and Ice- land. The Generalized System of Preferences (GSP ), under which industrial countries provide tariff prefer- ences for imports from developing countries, con- tinued to operate during the period under review with relatively few changes. In January 1981 the EC introduced a new GSP scheme for a period of ten years. The most significant change in the new scheme was the application of preferences on a "differential" basis, thereby shifting preferences for most products from global quotas as in the past to ceilings for individual supplier countries. The size of country quotas is lower the more developed a beneficiary country is; criteria for determining the level of development include per capita gross national product and the share in EC imports of particular products. However, imports from the least developed of the developing countries were not subject to any quota limitations. The EC also added a few additional industrial and agricultural products to its GSP list. Japan modified its GSP scheme in April 1980 and introduced special treatment for the least developed of the developing countries by grant- ing duty-free access for most GSP products from such countries without ceiling limitations. In addi- tion, Japan reduced the GSP tariff rate for three food and beverage items. The United States amended its GSP scheme in March 1980 by waiving the requirement to withdraw the duty exemption for beneficiaries accounting for more than half of total States. The following 17 countries had fu l ly accepted the Supplementary Protocol: Australia, Dominican Republic, Egypt, EC countries (except Be lg ium), India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Peru, Singapore, and Uruguay. U.S. imports of a product on the GSP list, if total U.S. imports of that product during 1979 were less than US$1 million (de minimis provision). Also in March 1980, the United States added 50 items to the list of goods covered by its GSP scheme. During the period under review, the People's Republic of China and Zimbabwe became designated as GSP beneficiaries in most industrial countries. The United States granted most-favored-nation (MFN) status to the People's Republic of China in January 1980. However, a number of countries eliminated preferential tariff treatments. For exam- ple, Australia announced the termination of all remaining preferential tar iffs on imports from the United Kingdom effective July 1981. Canada with- drew preferential tariff treatment for South Africa. It also decided to phase out preferential tar iffs for Ireland and the United Kingdom by Janua ry 1982 and replaced them with post-MTN MFN rates. South Africa also abolished preferential tar iffs for Commonwealth imports. Several developing countries eased their import t a r i f fs during the period under review. In a few cases, the measures were part of comprehensive programs aiming at the rationalization and reduc- tion of protective systems. The People's Republic of China eliminated duties on some food imports and reduced duties on many other products. Pro- ceeding with its tariff reform initiated in late 1979, Peru made numerous adjustments in individual tariff rates, mostly in a downward direction, which culmi- nated in September 1980 in the reduction of the max imum tar iff rate from 150 per cent to 60 per cent. As a result, the unweighted average tariff was reduced to 35 per cent f rom 39 per cent at the end of 1979. The Philippines substantially reduced ta r i f fs on more than 500 items in January 1981, as the first step of a comprehensive program to reform the tariff structure. Uruguay continued its tariff reform program by lowering for the second year sur- charges, ta r i f fs, and other import levies at the end of 1980 by 16 per cent of the difference between the sum of the various existing levies and the target duty rate of 35 per cent. Ta r i f fs covering a wide range of items were also reduced, temporarily sus- pended, or removed in Algeria, Argentina, Egypt, Singapore, and Venezuela. Indonesia also lowered or withdrew duties and sales taxes on a wide range of imports while introducing duties on a few of them. Maldives lowered duties on most imports but discontinued duty exemption for private imports. Other countries which selectively reduced tar iffs included Korea and Pakistan. 15 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS A number of countries increased the rates of customs duties and other import taxes. Among industrial countries, Iceland introduced protective duties on recently liberalized imports of biscuits, sugar confectionary, and chocolates. New Zealand raised duties on a variety of beers, spirits, and coir mats and matting. The United States increased duties on imports of certain cookware and preserved mushrooms under GATT Article XIX. Among developing countries, Ghana, Kenya, Mexico, and Senegal raised customs duties on a wide range of goods, while Cyprus introduced duties on many lux- ury imports. Selective tariff increases were under- taken in Fiji, Korea, Kuwait, Malta, Nepal, Oman, Paraguay, Seychelles, Sri Lanka, and Western Samoa. Antidumping and countervailing duties were im- posed on a variety of products by several countries, including one developing country. Argentina imposed a countervailing duty on photocopying paper and an antidumping du ty on textiles, both from Brazil. Australia imposed antidumping duties on several import categories, including high-speed twist drills from Czechoslovakia and carton boards from Austria, Finland, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Netherlands, and Spain. Canada and the EC also imposed antidumping duties on a num- ber of commodities. In the United States, antidump- ing duties were assessed on four categories of imports, and countervailing duties were imposed in several cases, the most important being industrial fasteners and iron metal castings from India and pig iron from Brazil. c. Advance Import Deposits In contrast to 1979, when there was an increase in the reliance on advance import deposit require- ments, cases of elimination and liberalization were more numerous than those of introduction and in- tensification of new deposit schemes in the period under review. Advance import deposit requirements were abol- ished in Bolivia, Iceland, Israel, and Nigeria. Ecua- dor exempted a number of imports from its deposit requirement and permitted, for certain import cate- gories, the fulfillment of up to 25 per cent of the deposit requirement in the form of mortgage or government bonds. Greece abolished in April 1980 the additional advance import deposit requirement of 75 per cent introduced in late 1979 and lowered at the start of 1981 by 25 per cent the schedule of rates on the remaining two advance deposits, the prepayment and the security deposit schemes. Korea, which requires advance deposits only on 16 private imports financed on a deferred payments basis, lowered the rate on such imports of copper from 20 per cent to 10 per cent. Morocco exempted imports of capital goods from its advance import deposit requirement. In the first half of 1980 Paki- stan exempted various products from the minimum margin requirements on the opening of import letters of credit and transferred other products to lower rates. In July 1980 a new comprehensive list of margin requirements was issued which reduced the maximum margin from 100 per cent to 35 per cent. Turkey lowered the rates of its advance import deposit scheme from a range of 25-40 per cent to a range of 10-30 per cent, but subjected previously exempt public sector imports to the 10 per cent rate. Deposit requirements were introduced by Costa Rica and Guatemala. As part of a set of emergency measures introduced in September 1980, Costa Rica began requiring a prior deposit to be held for six months, ranging from 10-50 per cent of import value, upon registration of the import orders with the Central Bank; excluded from this requirement were certain imports which also were exempted from the simultaneously imposed temporary surcharges. In April 1980 Guatemala introduced a 25 per cent guarantee deposit to be made at the time of request- ing foreign exchange for the prepayment of most imports. Existing import deposit requirements were tightened by the Dominican Republic and El Salvador. d. Other Measures Affecting Import Payments Official regulations governing the terms of import payments were relaxed in several countries. Chile allowed import payments to exceed values originally registered with the Central Bank by up to US$10,000 without further approval. It also extended from 120 days to 150 days the maximum delay within which exchange cover must be secured for import pay- ments not on a deferred basis. Ghana permitted suppliers' credit financing for specified import cate- gories. Korea extended the settlement period for imports with deferred payment fur ther from 120 days to 180 days, while also expanding the coverage in value terms of goods eligible for deferred pay- ment; it also permitted oil importers and refineries to receive short-term foreign currency loans for crude oil imports payable within 180 days and eliminated the limitation on import credits for major raw materials. The Philippines permitted authorized banks to sell foreign exchange for certain restricted categories of imports without prior approval from January 1981. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES Import payments regulations were tightened in the Dominican Republic, where imports of machin- ery, equipment, and spare parts were added to the list of imports which did not receive foreign exchange cover through the Central Bank. Also, commercial bank liabilities resulting from unprepaid letters of credit which were opened on or after September 1, 1980 were subjected to a 100 per cent reserve requirement. Brazil prescribed external financing satisfying specified minimum maturities for imports of capital goods, spare parts, and raw materials and consumer durables, subject to certain specified exemptions. Guatemala required the registration of all imports except those from countries adhering to the General Treaty of Central American Economic Integration. Similarly, Rwanda required the sub- mission of a copy of the bill of lading before autho- rizing payments for imports. Western Samoa required prior approval for public sector requests for foreign exchange in excess of WS$5,000 and all letters of credit in excess of WS$ 10,000; in July 1980 it also prohibited imports of motor vehicles for the remainder of 1980 except those approved by the Monetary Board or where financing was effected through remittance of overseas funds. Zambia pro- hibited authorized dealers from providing foreign exchange for goods whose value did not exceed K 50 and for which no import license was produced. e. State Trading The reliance on state trading increased to a mod- erate extent during the review period. There were selective relaxations in Pakistan and Sri Lanka, where the importation of certain nonferrous metals and mercury (Pakistan) and of rice, wheat, and wheat flour (Sri Lanka) were opened to the private sector. On the other hand, Iran announced in March 1980 that all foreign trade would be conducted by government agencies; although individual importers could initiate the importation of goods, the actual importation must be carried out through govern- ment-operated import agencies. Iraq centralized the import of many products under the government importing agency. Ivory Coast required that the importation of chemical fertilizers be conducted by a public enterprise specializing in agricultural exten- sion services. Malta expanded the system operated by the Government of buying essential commodities in bulk to about 40 items. In early 1981 Seychelles extended the monopoly rights of the Seychelles National Commodity Company from all exports to imports of a variety of essential food items. 2. Exports and Export Proceeds As in previous years, many countries resorted to a variety of fiscal, credit, and exchange rate guarantee measures to stimulate exports. Such measures were generally tailored to the needs of particular export sectors. In contrast, the use of quantitative restric- tions on specific products was usually motivated by domestic supply considerations, including the con- cern about price increases. In certain sectors, how- ever, exporting countries exercised restraint in accordance with agreements reached with importing countries. More comprehensive trade sanctions were taken by some countries as a result of political con- siderations. Reflecting the difficult external pay- ments situation of non-oil developing countries, significantly more countries than in recent years tightened their surrender requirements on export proceeds. New fiscal measures to promote exports were taken predominantly by developing countries. Dur- ing 1980 Argentina extended its rebate scheme to a wide range of agricultural and manufac tured exports but decided in December to phase out all export rebates by January 1, 1986. Brazil reinstated in April 1981 tax credits for selected manufactured exports v/hich had been suspended in connection with the December 1979 exchange reform. Kenya dou- bled the rate of compensation paid on eligible exports to 20 per cent of f.o.b. value and extended the coverage of the scheme to all but certain specified exports. To rationalize its export incentive schemes, New Zealand introduced three new schemes, viz., the Export Performance Taxation Incentive, the Export Program Grants Scheme, and the Export Market Development Taxation Incentive. Paki- stan extended the coverage of its rebate scheme to three types of manufactured exports. The Philip- pines extended the privileges enjoyed by export- oriented firms to enterprises located in export- processing zones. Senegal began to subsidize nontraditional exports at a rate of 10 per cent of f.o.b. value. Af ter granting tax credit certificates to the exports of various additional products, Uru- guay in August established a program calling for the gradual reduction of tax credit certificate rates to a un i fo rm rate of 5 per cent of the f.o.b. export value between January 1, 1982 and January 1, 1985. Countries that took steps to curtail or eliminate their reliance on fiscal export incentives included India, Peru, and Zimbabwe. A review by the OECD of its guidelines for offi- cially supported export credits in May 1980 led to a modest upward adjustment in minimum interest rates, which are maintained uniformly by all OECD member countries, irrespective of the currency in 17 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS which the export credit is denominated. With effect from July 1, 1980, the minimum rates were increased by 3A percentage point for officially supported export credits to the "intermediate" and "relatively rich" countries and by V* percentage point for the "rela- tively poor" countries. Negotiations to review the minimum interest rates in December 1980 and May 1981 remained inconclusive. A full review of the 1978 guidelines is to be completed by October 1981. Several countries provided or improved preferen- tial financing facilities for exporters. Argentina granted eligibility for prefinancing of promoted exports to a number of meat products and by-prod- ucts. In 1981 Canada introduced a program which will provide a combination of commercial and con- cessional export credits as a means of reducing the effective interest rate on export financing. As a part of a relaxation of its exchange controls, France pro- vided more liberal authorization for export-related financial credits denominated in francs. Korea extended the scope for the use of funds received under swaps to include export financing. Pakistan applied simplified procedures for exporters seeking credit under the Export Finance Scheme. Peru created a special fund in the Central Reserve Bank to finance up to 70 per cent of capital goods exports and related services. Viet Nam established a foreign exchange fund to provide credits to domestic pro- ducers to finance imports of inputs for exports in excess of Plan targets or outside the Plan'. On the other hand, Greece reduced the subsidy on interest rates for exports to EC countries, and in Switzer- land the National Bank and the commercial banks agreed not to renew their 1975 agreement under which the banks were prepared to discount at prefer- ential rates export bills of exchange with maturities of up to six months. A number of countries, most of them developed, amended their system of guarantees and insurance on export credits as well as guarantees against exchange rate risks. Chile extended the repayment period for export credits and the time allowed for shipping merchandise under export credit arrange- ments. In the United Kingdom the Export Credit Guarantee Department (ECGD) announced that it would no longer insist on exporters financing large, specifically guaranteed overseas contracts in foreign currencies under its fixed-rate export finance scheme. On the other hand, the ECGD withdrew the refi- nance facility provided for certain fixed interest rate sterling export credits. In addition, the Credit and Guarantee Insurance Company (CGIC) announced in September a new scheme enabling customers to claim compensation from the CGIC in the event of a 18 breach of contract by the exporter. In South Africa, the Credit Guarantee Insurance Corporation set a limit of 25 per cent of the previous year's sales on credit insurance for exports to Zimbabwe. Switzer- land extended until November 1981 the facility of currency options under which exporters of goods and services can cover their exchange risks with the National Bank for up to two years forward. Countries imposing or intensifying quantitative restrictions on exports by far outnumbered those which relaxed or eliminated such restrictions. Clearance, declaration, or licensing requirements were lifted on a selective basis in Canada, the Philip- pines, Venezuela, and Western Samoa, while a few quantitative controls were lifted in the United Kingdom. On the restrictive side, the most significant measures were the coordinated embargoes by several predominantly developed countries against Iran and the U.S.S.R. Major industrial countries banned the export of goods and services to Iran, except food and medicines. Restrictions against Iran began to be lifted in late 1980 and early 1981. In January 1980 the United States suspended the shipment of certain agricultural products, notably corn and wheat, to the U.S.S.R. Export licenses for corn and wheat were granted, however, up to the extent necessary to per- mit shipments under the 1975 agreement between both countries.18 The U.S. measure received sup- port from other major corn and wheat producers such as Australia, Canada, and the EC. The United States also suspended all outstanding licenses for exports of high-technology products to the U.S.S.R. Controls on specified exports in the form of bans, quotas, licensing, and certain other requirements were also introduced or intensified in Guatemala, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan, Peru, Thailand, Turkey, the United Kingdom, and Yugoslavia. Domestic supply or government revenue con- siderations accounted for most of the many changes in export taxation. Numerous, on balance liberaliz- ing, changes took place in Brazil's complex export taxation system during 1980. Export taxes were abolished successively for soybeans, sisal, and cocoa. New lists or modifications to previous lists of prod- ucts subject to export taxes were issued on five occasions during the year; most of these modifica- tions resulted in a reduction of the rate of taxation. The contribution quota for the export of quartz chips was abolished in October 1980. Exports of orange juice were made subject to a temporary contribution quota that applied during the second half of 1980 18 The restrictions on grain exports to the U.S.S.R. were lifted on April 24, 1981. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES and lapsed on December 31, 1980. Colombia reduced the tax on the proceeds from coffee exports and removed such exports from the list of commodi- ties subject to a forced discount upon early surrender of exchange certificates issued against export pro- ceeds. Export duties, taxes, or other levies on spe- cific commodities were also reduced in Nepal, the Philippines, Sudan, and Thailand and abolished in Argentina, the People's Republic of China, Mexico, Nepal, and the Philippines. Countries introducing new or raising existing export levies on specified products included Argentina, Canada, Indonesia, the Philippines, and Sudan. Mauritius introduced a sur- charge on existing export duties. In most instances, measures relaxing surrender requirements lengthened the period for which foreign exchange could be retained, or introduced or increased retention quotas for exporters. As part of a package of measures relaxing exchange controls, France in June 1980 authorized exporters to retain foreign exchange received in payment until covering contracts actually matured (as against a limit of eight days previously) and extended to all exporters the privilege of making deposits to foreign bank accounts up to certain monthly limits. The maximum period for the surrender of export proceeds was also extended in Korea and Portugal. Maldives rescinded a 50 per cent surrender requirement for certain exports introduced in 1979. Pakistan waived the declaration requirement for exchange surrender pur- poses in the case of goods manufac tured in export processing zones. Turkey extended the retention quota scheme to exporters of certain agricultural products and to the exchange earnings of Turkish contractors. Zaire, which temporarily tightened the surrender regulations for its major mining company, permitted producer-exporters to retain a specified fraction of their export proceeds subject to certain conditions. A special differentiated retention scheme for the coffee sector was introduced later in 1980. Several changes in Peru's surrender requirements of export proceeds, including the introduction of non- negotiable interest-bearing exchange certificates with a maturity of 90 days up to specified percentages of most traditional exports, were introduced for do- mestic liquidity control reasons. Surrender require- ments were tightened in a number of countries, often in response to acute balance of payments pressures. Brazil set an outside limit of 10 days af ter shipment for the surrender of export proceeds. With the exemption of certain public sector authorities and entities, Egypt lowered the retention quotas and surrender periods for the private and public sector, respectively. El Salvador centralized the collection of exchange proceeds from its major exports in the Central Reserve Bank. Similarly, Guatemala made the approval of export licenses conditional upon agreement by the exporters to surrender their export proceeds to the Bank of Guatemala within a set time limit. Honduras required all exporters benefit- ing from domestic credit or guarantee endorsements from domestic banks to surrender their export pro- ceeds. Israel instructed all exporters to repatriate their export proceeds without delay. In the final quarter of 1980 Italy temporarily reduced the maxi- mum period for the retention of export proceeds f rom 15 days to 10 days. Ivory Coast reduced the repatriation period for export transactions and required that such repatriation be made to Ivory Coast. Zimbabwe subjected exports to 50 countries to payment in designated currencies and required either advance payment or the prior establishment of an irrevocable letter of credit. 3. Current Invisibles During the period under review Fund members appear, on balance, to have liberalized their regula- tions on current invisibles. Although there were some substantial increases in nominal exchange allocations for specified payments for invisibles, the increases were offset in varying degrees by concur- rent price increases. Moreover, several countries tightened restrictions in response to severe balance of payments pressures. Most of the measures taken, whether to ease or tighten restrictions, were, as in recent years, in the area of exchange allocations or allowances for tourism and other travel abroad. To a lesser extent, steps were also taken regarding remittances of incomes and profits, as well as the import and export of notes and coins. Among developed countries, Iceland, Italy, and Norway substantially increased their basic exchange allocations for travel, the latter country by 100 per cent. Sweden doubled the allocation for longer journeys. Italy also raised the allowances for busi- ness travel, medical treatment, and education, while maintaining a restriction on foreign exchange made available for foreign tourism. In developing coun- tries, the limits on basic travel allowances were more than doubled in Chile and the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and removed altogether in Mauritania. In Greece, the travel allowance was raised for travel to EC countries only. Peru doubled its indicative ceiling for foreign travel. South Africa also increased its travel allowance substantially, and Zambia raised its basic allocation by two thirds, with a lower limit applying to surface travel in continental Africa. 19 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Business travel allowances were liberalized in a number of developing countries by raising the daily allocations (Mauritius, Peru, and Zambia), the indi- cative overall ceiling (Peru), or the maximum length of stay (Zambia). In Pakistan, the blanket permis- sion for business travel was liberalized by doubling the validity period of such permission to one year and by permitting simultaneous travel by two representa- tives of the same firm urider specified conditions. Increases of business travel allocations in the Philip- pines were granted to exporters, depending on country of destination and size of firm. With respect to exchange for other types of foreign travel, Pakistan simplified the procedures for pil- grimage travel to Saudi Arabia and raised the allow- ances for living and other expenses for students abroad. Peru doubled the indicative exchange alloca- tion for student travel and for the personnel on Peru- vian international carriers; in addition, the limit on sales of foreign exchange to departing nonresidents was raised from US$50 to US$500. Finally, South Africa raised the maintenance and study allowances. Access to foreign exchange for travel purposes was restricted in a number of developing countries, in nearly all cases as a result of exchange shortages. Besides outright reductions in amounts, travel taxes and deposit requirements were used along with administrative restrictions. Barbados cut the allow- ance for business travel inside the Caribbean Com- mon Market (CARICOM) area by one third. Rein- forcing restrictive action taken in 1979, El Salvador severely tightened restrictions on the sale of foreign exchange for foreign tourism, education, and family assistance. In Ghana, the tax rates on travel tickets and travel exchange were raised to a un iform rate of 75 per cent and exchange allocations for medical and educational expenses also became subject to the tax. Guatemala, which previously had no restrictions on payments for invisibles, introduced a refundable 10 per cent deposit requirement on exchange pur- chases for nonbusiness travel outside Central America in excess of US$1,500 a person. Also, limits were introduced for that type of travel and certain other current invisibles with waiver provisions for bona fide cases. As in 1979, Iran again reduced its basic travel allocation. In February 1981 Madagascar reduced by one third the annual limits on the basic travel allocation and the business travel allocation. Finally, in Sierra Leone nonresidents were no longer allowed to purchase airline tickets with local cur- rency. In addition to the above-mentioned measures, Colombia doubled its travel tax and expressed the tax liability in U.S. dollars instead of pesos previously. 20 A few countries eased their regulations on remit- tances of various categories of income. Upon its accession to the EC at the start of 1981, Greece abolished all restrictions on the transfer of dividends, interest, and profits to the EC countries. Mauritania removed limitations on salary transfers, while Para- guay softened the application of its 30 per cent remittance tax in the case of foreign loans contracted by domestic banks. From March 1980, the tax was payable only on the spread in the case of flexible interest loans or on the first 6l/2 per cent of interest in the case of fixed-rate loans. Portugal ceased to apply phasing requirements for the remittance of d iv idends and profits exceeding US$250,000. Zim- babwe, which also restricted the remittance of dividends in certain cases (see be low), permitted shareholders to remit freely dividends for financial years ending on or af ter March 31, 1981, provided t h at these dividends do not exceed 50 per cent of the af ter- tax profit of the company concerned. Pro- vision was also made for the gradual release of blocked dividends, interest, and other incomes which had accrued to residents of Canada, the United Kingdom, and the United States ( the designated coun t r ies) during the years 1965-73, and for the remittance of 50 per cent of the profits earned by branches of companies other than insurance com- panies in the designated countries during this period. Furthermore, Zimbabwe permitted the transfer of interest accrued on blocked funds from July 1, 1980 to companies in designated countries. Remittances abroad were restricted in Thailand, which reinstated a 10 per cent withholding tax on interest paymen ts abroad for obligations of less than one year's ma tur i ty, and in Western Samoa, which applied a 15 per cent withholding tax on the remit- tance of interest. Zaire limited the transfer of expatriate salaries in 1980 to the level authorized for 1979. In Zambia, the transfer abroad of leave pay for foreign nationals was limited to one third of the total of such pay, and this amount plus the full amount of any gratuity became subject to the overall limit of K 8,000 on departure. In Zimbabwe, certain shareholders who had hitherto enjoyed the free trans- fer of their dividends were permitted to remit divi- dends declared, for financial years ended af ter June 30, 1980, only where the total dividend so declared by a company does not exceed 50 per cent of its af ter- tax profit. Among other measures affecting payments for current invisible transactions, Austria doubled the limit on outward invisible payments not subject to licensing, and Chile raised the exchange allocation ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES for extraordinary remittances in line with the sub- stantial increase in the basic travel allowance. The Philippines made nontrade foreign exchange earners eligible for registration with the Central Bank as "export oriented," thus granting them access to cer- tain incentives. South Africa substantially raised the annual limit on gifts abroad. In January 1981 the United States eliminated with one exception the restrictions on payments and transfers for current international transactions with Iran that had been introduced for security reasons in 1979 and 1980. Several countries changed the limits for the hold- ing, import, and export of foreign and domestic means of payment. Fiji raised the limits on domestic and foreign currency notes that travelers are per- mitted to take abroad, while Norway more than doubled the amount in Norwegian banknotes that each person leaving Norway may carry. In contrast, El Salvador required customs declaration of local currency brought in and out of the country, and Honduras restricted the amount of foreign currency notes and coins purchased by persons traveling abroad to US$100 a person a year. In Israel, the amount of foreign currency residents are authorized to hold in cash form was reduced from US$3,000 to US$500; the balance from the US$3,000 previously allowed must be held in travelers checks or bank checks. Bank transfers of non-Israeli currency by residents within the country were made illegal. 4. Payments Arrears In October 1980 the Executive Board of the Fund undertook a comprehensive review of the Fund's experience with, and its policies and procedures on, external payments arrears. The review took place against the background of a substantial increase, since the preceding review in October 1970, in the number of countries incurring payments arrears and in the total amount of arrears outstanding. The Fund's concern with arrears stems not only from the harmful effects on creditor countries and their, deleterious consequences for the credit standing of the members incurring them but also from their injurious effects on the smooth func t ion ing of the international trade and payments system. In con- cluding the review, the Executive Board broadly endorsed the procedures and policy guidelines which had been followed during the preceding decade, while specifying that some minor modifications were necessary in light of the Fund's experience with arrears in the intervening period. Payments arrears are exchange restrictions which arise from governmentally imposed delays, beyond those required by normal adm in is t ra t ive procedures, in the provision of foreign exchange for the mak ing of paymen ts and transfers recognized as legitimate under a country's exchange control system. The Fund's approval jurisdiction on exchange restrictions under Article VIII, Section 2 becomes involved whenever such governmental action causes an undue delay in the mak ing of paymen ts and t rans fe rs for cu r rent in te rna t ional transactions. What constitutes an undue delay needs to be examined in a flexible and pragmatic manner on a case-by-case basis, hav ing regard to the administrative procedures and other circumstances of the member concerned. Because of the damaging effects of arrears on the in terna t ional t rade and payments system, the Fund does not grant approval to payments arrears which are exchange restrictions w i th in the mean ing of Article VIII, Section 2, except where the member has presented a program for the reduction and/or the eventual elimination of such arrears. When pay- ments arrears are incurred by a government or by a government entity, the financial operations of which clearly form part of the budge tary process, and in those cases in wh ich arrears arise because a coun t ry belonging to a common central bank is unable to obtain domestic currency in order to pur- chase required foreign exchange, the arrears are treated as defaults and not as exchange restrictions within the meaning of Article VIII. In the settlement of payments arrears, member countries are expected to observe the principle of nondiscrimination as regards creditor countries. The Fund is also concerned w i th the trea tment of payments arrears in the context of stabilization pro- grams supported by use of the Fund's resources. In these programs, member countries are expected to take steps to reduce and eventually eliminate pay- ments arrears (including those arising from govern- mental d e f au l t) relating to capital transactions, as well as to paymen ts and transfers for current inter- national transactions. However, in view of the recent experience in some member countries, the Fund recognizes that when payments arrears are large in relation to a member's available foreign exchange resources, it may not be possible to aim at the e l im ina t ion of the arrears within the program period. The renegotiation of outstanding debt obligations (including arrears) may become necessary when debt problems are particularly severe. Depending on the member's circumstances and the length of the program, it may, in the early stages of a program, only be possible to reach understandings as to the avoidance of any fu r ther increase in arrears. In 21 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANG EM EN TS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS general, Fund financial assistance to members with payments arrears will continue to be granted, as before, on the basis of performance criteria or poli- cies with respect to arrears in recognition of their status as payments restrictions. All of the countries which had payments arrears (including those arising from governmental defaults) in 1979 continued to do so during 1980. At the end of 1980, external payments arrears were known to exist in 26 countries,19 compared with 13 countries at the end of 1975. Their totfil was estimated to amount to about SDR 5.3 billion, or only slightly less than the total estimated for the end of 1979, compared with SDR 0.7 billion at the end of 1975. Without the substantial amount of debt service arrears rescheduled during 1980, notably by the creditors of Nicaragua, Turkey, and Zaire, the end-1980 total would have been considerably higher. While the arrears total of the 26 countries repre- sented some 42 per cent of their aggregate 1980 exports (as compared to just under 10 per cent of the 1975 exports of countries then incurring a r rea r s ), the problem of the backlog in payments was much more severe in a few individual cases, reaching as high as 230 per cent of 1980 exports in one case. Of the 26 countries with arrears, 20 had comprehensive adjustment programs in effect dur ing 1980 or early 1981 which envisaged the orderly reduction or elimination of the arrears and which provided the countries access to the Fund's resources, in all but one case in the higher credit tranches. The arrears recorded at the end of 1980 involved payments and transfers for current international transactions on account of commercial imports, as well as official and private debt service. In some of the countries, arrears also represented delays in the provision of foreign exchange for other current invisibles, such as the remittance of profits and dividends on foreign investment and of earnings by international airline companies. In some of these instances, however, it is difficult to determine whether such delays in fact constitute genuine cases of payments arrears, because the time period con- sidered necessary by the authorities to process appli- 19 Bolivia*, Central African Republic*, Chad, People's Republic of the Congo*, Costa Rica*, Dominican Republic, The Gambia, Ghana*, Grenada*, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana*, Jamaica*, Madagascar*, Mauritania*, Nicaragua, Senegal*, Sierra Leone*, Somalia*, Sudan*, Tanzania*, Togo*, Turkey*, Uganda*, Zaire*, and Zambia*. In Janu- ary 1981 Grenada eliminated its arrears through reschedul- ing. The asterisk denotes countries with a financial program supported by the use of the Fund's resources in effect during 1980 or early 1981. 22 cations for foreign exchange transfers varies con- siderably from country to country. Available data indicate that there was an increase in outstanding arrears between the end of 1979 and the end of 1980 in Bolivia, Central African Republic, Dominican Republic, Guyana, Jamaica, Madagascar, Sierra Leone, Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zambia. In Costa Rica, The Gambia, and Senegal arrears began to accrue in the course of 1980. During 1980 reduc- tions in arrears were recorded in 5 countries, 4 of which had entered into programs supported by the use of Fund resources. Ranked in ascending order of the amount of reduction, those countries were Togo, Ghana, Nicaragua, Turkey, and Zaire. In addition to the reduction of arrears through cash payment, the latter 3 countries benefited from debt renegotiation agreements with major creditors or creditor groups that included the refinancing or rescheduling of arrears on debt service payments. Among the 26 member countries with arrears at the end of 1980, there were 6 which share common currency arrangements as members of the Bank of Central Afr ican States (BEAC ), the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO), or the East Carib- bean Currency Au thor i ty (ECCA) .20 In those coun- tries arrears represent overdue obligations to both external and internal creditors. Arrears emerge in those countries because the authorities do not have adequate recourse to domestic currency to purchase foreign exchange from the joint central bank as a result of statutory limits on lending by the joint central bank to the participating governments. As the emergence of this type of governmental default partly reflects a deterioration in the respective gov- ernment's financial operations, 5 of the 6 members experiencing this problem have entered into stabiliza- tion programs supported by financial assistance from the Fund which, inter alia, include policies aimed at strengthening the government's budgetary position. 5. Multiple Currency Practices With the entry into force of the Second Amend- ment to the Articles of Agreement on April 1, 1978, Fund member countries were given the right to adopt exchange arrangements of their choice. The freedom to select exchange arrangements, which is stipulated in Article IV, Section 2 ( 6 ), is subject to the special obligations regarding exchange arrangements (in the 20 They were the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, and the People's Republic of the Congo f rom the BEAC, Senegal and Togo from the BCEAO, and Grenada from the ECCA. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES present context especially that of maintenance of orderly exchange arrangements according to Arti- cle IV, Section 1) and to the general obligations of members according to Article VIII which proscribe, inter alia, the use of multiple currency practices and discriminatory currency arrangements. In the absence of any definition provided by the Articles of Agreement, the Fund has authority to give content to the concept of multiple currency practices. Follow- ing the Second Amendment, the Fund, in implement- ing its policy with regard to multiple currency practices, continued to apply the approaches and criteria it had been following in accordance with the revised decision on central rates and wider margins.21 In accordance with a review in October 1979 of the legal and operational aspects of multiple currency practices, the Executive Board clarified that, under the Second Amendment, only multiple currency practices resulting from official action come under the Fund's jurisdiction under Article VIII, Section 3.22 In March 1981 the Executive Board again reviewed the Fund's policy with respect to multiple currency practices and adopted guidelines defining multiple currency practices and broken cross rates and out- lining the Fund's fu tu re policy in the exercise of its approval jurisdiction over such practices.23 According to the new criteria, a multiple currency practice arises from action by a member or its fiscal agencies that either (1) of itself gives rise to a spread of more than 2 per cent between buying and selling rates for spot exchange transactions between the member's currency and any other member's cur- rency or (2) results in midpoint spot exchange rates of other members' currencies against its own cur- rency in a relationship which differs by more than 1 per cent from the midpoint spot exchange rates for these currencies in their principal markets. The new 21 That decision, No. 4083-(73/104), adopted on Novem- ber 7, 1973, stated in paragraph 5 that . .. no member shall permit, except as approved or authorized under Article VIII, Section 3 or Article XIV, Section 2: a difference in excess of 2 per cent between any two buying or any two selling rates for spot exchange transactions between its currency and the currencies of other members; or a spread in excess of 2 per cent between a buying and a selling rate for spot exchange transactions between its currency and the currency of another member. 22 The outcome of the 1979 review was summarized in the Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions, 1980, page 17. 23 The full text of the conclusions, which were adopted by the Executive Board on March 20, 1981 as Decision No. 6790-(81/43), is reproduced in the Annex, page 36. criteria are intended to give consideration to the particular circumstances of members. Exchange spreads resulting from commercial costs and exchange risk as such are, therefore, no longer considered in ascertaining the existence of a multiple currency practice. Similarly, such costs and even official actions are not taken into account by basing the cal- culation of broken cross rates on midpoint exchange rates. Moreover, broken cross rates of more than 1 per cent become subject to the Fund's approval jurisdiction under Article VIII, Section 3, only if they exist for more than one week. This gives recognition to the increased likelihood of breaks for countries pegging to one individual currency, or to one or more currencies, or to a composite of cur- rencies as a result of the greater volatility of exchange rates under the exchange arrangements permitted under the Second Amendment. As in the past, countries are required to seek prior approval for the introduction of multiple currency practices. Except for multiple currency practices arising from broken cross rates, which are inherently discriminatory, such approval will be granted for no more than approximately one year, if the multiple currency practice is introduced or maintained for balance of payments reasons, and the Fund is satis- fied with the member's representation that the measure is necessary, that it does not provide the member an unfa ir competitive advantage, and that it is applied on a temporary and nondiscriminatory basis while the member is taking steps to solve its balance of payments problem. The Fund is also prepared to grant temporary approval to multiple currency practices introduced or maintained prin- cipally for nonbalance of payments reasons, pro- vided that such practices do not materially impede the member's balance of payments adjustment, do not harm the interests of other members, and do not discriminate among members. Classified into broad categories, multiple currency practices encompass separate exchange rates, either through the mechanism of a dual or multiple exchange market or the establishment of separate official exchange rates for specified transactions, broken cross rates, or other discriminatory currency arrangements and, in a large number of cases, a variety of exchange measures creating excessive exchange rate spreads. In any given year during the period 1970-80, between 25 per cent and 48 per cent of members were engaging in multiple currency practices in accordance with the Fund's interpreta- tion of the term. In absolute terms, their incidence rose moderately until 1978 from a low recorded in 1974 but declined again during 1979 and 1980. In 23 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS the course of 1980, 43 members had at least one multiple currency practice (compared with 48 during 1979), and there was substantial progress in reduc- ing members' reliance on multiple currency practices. Seven members abolished their remaining multiple currency practices,24 while only 3 members were added to the list of countries engaging in multiple currency practices.25 In addition to those 3 countries, there were only 2 countries which introduced a new multiple currency practice. Among countries with multiple exchange market arrangements, Nepal reduced to one half the rate differential for the U.S. dollar by appreciating the more depreciated second ra te from NRs 16 to NRs 14 per US$1, while maintaining the basic rate at NRs 12 per US$1. The rate applying to trans- actions with India remained unchanged at NRs 145 per Rs 100. In the course of 1980 Nicaragua expanded the scope of the market in which permitted exchange transactions take place at freely determined rates. As during 1971-74, Costa Rica split the exchange market in September 1980 by permitting exporters to sell 50 per cent of their exchange proceeds in the parallel market and by restricting access to the official market to specified types of transactions, notably to those by the public sector and to 50 per cent of most private sector imports. In December Costa Rica reunified the exchange market at a rate which was largely determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions. For the time being, some multiple currency practices continue to result, however, from the temporary provision until the end of 1981 of exchange to the Central Govern- ment at the former official exchange rate and from the provision of exchange at that same rate for certain medical.and educational payments abroad approved prior to September 1980. Exchange continued to be provided for the afore-mentioned transactions at the rate of <£ 8.60 per US$1 af ter the renewed separation of the exchange markets in March 1981 and their subsequent reunification in April 1981. A large number of countries reduced their reliance on multiple currency practices by a variety of meas- ures, including the abolition of special rates, the reduction in the dispersion of rates, or the narrow- ing of the scope of transactions covered by special rates. As mentioned in the section on exports, Brazil modified on various occasions during the 24 Maldives, Mauritania, Morocco, Pakistan, Somalia, Uruguay, and Zaire. 25 Barbados, People's Republic of China, and Costa Rica. 24 review period its taxes and contribution quotas on exports. Export taxes on cocoa, soybeans, and sisal were eliminated between April and September, and the contribution quota on quartz chips was abolished in October. The rate of taxation for other products was also reduced in connection with the issuance of new and modified lists of products subject to export taxes. Colombia also took several steps to reduce the scope of its multiple currency practices. From the beginning of 1980, exports under official export- import regimes became eligible for exchange-related benefits in the form of freely negotiable tax credit certificates at a rate of 0.1 per cent of surrendered export earnings; previously, rates of up to 12 per cent were applied to the added value of certain exports, depending on the commodity. Also in January 1980, the coverage of the special tax on outward remittances was reduced by excluding rental payments for television movies. In October coffee exports were exempted from the forced dis- count of 5 per cent on the early encashment of exchange certificates, and in December the coffee export tax was reduced from 16 per cent to 13 per cent of export proceeds. In accordance with its obligations under the Accession Treaty with the EC to eliminate its advance import deposit requirements over a four-year period, Greece abolished one deposit requirement and lowered the rates on the remaining two. Maldives repealed in April 1980 a 50 per cent surrender requirement at a substantially appreciated rate for certain fish exports. In March 1980 Mauritania abolished the fixed exchange rates for transactions in banknotes for specified currencies, thereby permitting such transactions to be effected on the basis of the official exchange rate. With effect from January 1, 1981 Morocco terminated the 5 per cent bonus on the inward remittances through the banking and postal systems by Moroccans work- ing abroad. By substantially reducing the minimum margin requirements on import letters of credit from a max imum of 100 per cent to a maximum of 35 per cent in July 1980, Pakistan eliminated a multiple currency practice which had existed for about one year. Somalia removed the prescribed commission on foreign exchange transactions in January 1980. In September 1980 Sudan shifted the proceeds from all exports other than cotton and the payments for all imports other than specified essential items from the official market to the more depreciated parallel mar- ket. Turkey abolished its special exchange rates for workers' remittances and for the sale of exchange for tourism abroad in connection with the January 1980 devaluation of the lira to LT 70 = US$1. After the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES devaluation, new multiple currency practices arose (1) for imports of fertilizers and insecticides, as well as of the inputs for their domestic production, for which exchange was sold at a preferential rate of LT 55 = US$1; (2) for expenses of students, on a temporary basis, who had commenced their study abroad prior to certain dates (minimum rate of LT 26.50 = US$1 ); (3) for exports of goods and services effected prior to the devaluation, the unre- patriated part of which would be eligible for the predevaluation exchange rate plus a premium of LT 5 per US$1 if the exchange earnings were remitted to Turkey at least one month in advance of due date (LT 47.10 = US$1 or LT 52.10 = US$1); and (4) for foreign exporters with nonguaranteed overdue claims who chose the Turkish lira option for settlement (LT 47.10 = US$1). In June 1980 exporters of fresh vegetables, fru i ts, and fish became eligible to retain 10 per cent of their proceeds. As there is an active exchange market in such exchange balances, a multiple currency practice can arise from this arrangement, depending on the size of the premium. The retention scheme was also extended at the rate of 10 per cent to foreign exchange earn- ings of Turkish contractors. Uruguay abolished its last multiple currency practice in April 1980 by replacing the exchange tax on proceeds from exports of animal hides by an equivalent export tax. In accordance with an undertaking under its stabiliza- tion program with the Fund, Zaire abolished in February 1980 the preferential exchange rate for diamonds purchased from small-scale producers. Actions creating new or intensifying existing mul- tiple currency practices were reported in only six countries. In May 1980 Barbados introduced fees, ranging as high as 4 per cent of the value of the transaction, on purchases of foreign exchange for private sector remittances abroad with the exception of import payments, travel and education allowances, and nontrade payments of over BDS$500. In April 1980 Brazil extended the tax on financial operations, which had long been levied on domestic financial operations, to cover exchange purchases for imports and specified services. At the end of 1980 the tax rate on exchange purchases for certain imports was raised f rom 15 per cent to 25 per cent, and in March 1981 a special rate of 20 per cent was created for imports from countries which are members of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Brazil also introduced a temporary contribution quota on the export of orange juice during the second half of 1980; this measure lapsed on December 31, 1980. In September 1980 the People's Republic of China imposed a 10 per cent tax on profit remit- tances by joint ventures, and at the start of 1981 an internal settlement rate of Y 2.8 per US$1 was introduced for the settlement of trade and trade- related transactions between trading organizations and the Bank of China. On an experimental basis, trading organizations could retain a portion of their proceeds and sell it at the new internal settlement rate to other enterprises having a quota to use foreign exchange. In late 1980 the Dominican Republic exempted more than 40 export products, par t ly or fully, from the surrender requirement, thus granting a premium to the exports affected. In connection with an expansion of the scope and an increase in the rate of its export compensation scheme in July 1980, Kenya transferred the adminis- tration and execution of the scheme from the Customs Department to the Central Bank, thereby creating a multiple currency practice for eligible export receipts. The Lao People's Democratic Republic raised the premium on foreign exchange purchased from tourists and embassies and on inward transfers from 20 per cent to 40 per cent in March 1980. 6. Bilateral Payments Arrangements Bilaterism in payments involving Fund members, as measured by the number of active bilateral pay- ments arrangements between members and between members and nonmembers, continued its long-term decline in the period under review. While no new agreements involving Fund members were concluded, 13 such agreements were terminated. In preparation for its accession to EC membership in 1981, Greece abolished its remaining eight agreements by Decem- ber 31, 1980. The four agreements terminated among Fund members were Egypt-People's Demo- cratic Republic of Yemen, Greece-People's Republic ,of China, Greece-Romania, and Equatorial Guinea- Spain. The last agreement, which had long been inoperative, expired. Thus, on the basis of Fund membership at the end of 1979, the total number of operative agreements among Fund members would have decreased from about 27 to about 25 by early 1981. However, this number rises to about 42 af ter the reclassification as agreements among Fund mem- bers of 18 agreements (including the one terminated by Greece) maintained by the People's Republic of China with other Fund members that became neces- sary in light of the change in China's representation in the Fund. Nine bilateral payments arrangements maintained by members with nonmembers were terminated in 1980. Egypt and Pakistan abolished their agree- 25 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS ments with the German Democratic Republic, Nepal the one with Bulgaria, and Greece the ones with Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, and Poland. With- out the reclassification of China's bilateral agree- ments, the total of members' agreements with nonmembers would have dropped from approxi- mately 121 to approximately 112. Adjusting both for China's 18 agreements with members and its 10 agreements with nonmembers, the total of mem- bers' agreements with nonmembers in early 1981 was approximately 104. Thus, total agreements involving members fell from approximately 148 at the start of 1980 to approximately 137 before the reclassification of China's agreements and to approxi- mately 146 after that reclassification. 7. Capital Flows Their high sensitivity to interest rate and liquidity changes in major financial markets once again made banks the main focus of measures to influence capital flows. In the major industrial countries such action, more than in previous years, was motivated by balance of payments concerns rather than by domestic liquidity objectives. The weakening of the current account positions of the Federal Republic of Germany, Japan, and Switzerland led to the progres- sive dismantling of the remaining barriers to capital inflows in those countries and, in a few instances, to measures designed to restrain capital outflows. In the case of the Federal Republic of Germany, these measures were supplemented by substantial direct borrowing from surplus countries. Many developing countries took additional steps to encourage inflows of foreign capital, while some of them relaxed exist- ing restrictions on capital outflows. Only a few developing countries introduced restrictive measures, due mainly to balance of payments pressures. In the Federal Republic of Germany, the banks agreed with the Bundesbank in February 1980 not to place borrowers' notes with maturities of five years or less abroad, while notes already held by banks could be placed abroad only if the remaining time to ma tur i ty exceeded four years. However, in March and November 1980 these maturity limits were gradually reduced to one year. In addition, the gentlemen's agreement whereby the banks undertook not to place deutsche mark-denominated bonds abroad through their foreign subsidiaries was recon- firmed. Effective February 1, 1980 the credit institu- tions were required by the Federal Banking Supervisory Office to include their open positions in gold, silver, and platinum in the calculation of their 26 daily open exchange positions. Also, from March 31, 1980, the credit institutions had to report monthly to the Bundesbank the nonresident claims and liabilities of their foreign branches and subsidiaries by currency and country. Minimum reserve require- ments on domestic and foreign liabilities were lowered across the board on three occasions: by 8 per cent in May 1980, by 10 per cent in September 1980, and by 7 per cent in February 1981. Supple- menting a decision by the Central Capital Market Committee in December to suspend new issues of deutsche mark-denominated bonds by nonresidents (see below), the Bundesbank concluded a gentle- men's agreement with the major credit institutions in December under which the banks undertook to restrain their long-term lending in deutsche mark to nonresidents (excluding commercial credits) until March 31, 1981. In March 1981 the Bundesbank instructed the banks that it would not seek an extension of the agreement but that banks would continue to have to refrain from placing abroad their own securities with variable interest rates (floating rate bonds) and issuing deposit certificates alien to German banking practices and denominated in deutsche mark. In March 1980, as a part of a new yen defense program, Japan announced a package of measures to facilitate the inflow of foreign funds, particularly through the banking system: (1) the raising of funds from abroad through interoffice free yen accounts by the authorized foreign exchange banks would be permitted on a more flexible basis; (2) free yen deposits held by foreign public institutions, including foreign central banks, would be exempted from the legal ceiling on interest rates; (3) medium-term and long-term impact loans (general purpose foreign currency loans to residents by banks in Japan) by Japanese banks could be permitted; (4) the private placement abroad by Japanese firms of yen bonds would be permitted, in some cases more freely. In April 1980 Japanese banks, which had been requested in October 1979 to slow down their medium-term and long-term foreign currency lend- ing abroad pending the development of their lending plans, were advised that such lending could be resumed to some extent, and in June loan-by-loan monitoring of such lending was eased. However, during April 1980 the Bank of Japan requested that the principal Japanese banks support the U.S. credit control measures by limiting annual net lending to U.S. residents from their offices located outside the United States to 6-9 per cent of their outstanding loans. In July deposit institutions were asked to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES exercise restraint in accepting foreign currency deposits resulting from the sale of foreign currency assets. With the implementation of the new Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law on December 1, 1980 (see be low), the requirement for prior permission for foreign currency deposits by residents to exceed the equivalent of ¥ 3 million was eliminated. In January 1981, however, the reserve requirements on all foreign currency deposits were raised from a uniform 0.25 per cent to 0.5 per cent for time deposits and to 1.25 per cent for other types of deposits. In the United States, some important measures affecting the operations of foreign and domestic banks were introduced during the period under review: (1) in October 1980 the Federal Reserve Board issued final regulations implementing the provisions of the International Banking Act limiting the interstate banking activities of foreign banks in the United States; (2) from December that Act, and other recent legislation, subjected all deposit-taking institutions in the United States, domestic as well as foreign, to Federal reserve requirements; and (3) also in December 1980, the Federal Reserve Board proposed the creation of International Bank- ing Facilities in the United States that could make loans to non-U.S. residents and would be authorized to accept foreign deposits free from reserve require- ments and interest rate restrictions. Under a 1979 agreement with the People's Republic of China, the United States unblocked Chinese assets in the United States on January 31, 1980. In April 1980 the United States amended the November 1979 regula- tions on the freezing of Iranian assets by prohibiting certain payments and transfers by persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States which involved the Government of Iran, its instrumentalities or con- trolled entities, enterprises controlled by Iran, or persons in Iran, and certain payments related to travel to and maintenance within Iran by most U.S. nationals. In January 1981, the United States directed the return to Iran of Iranian assets held at overseas offices of U.S. banks and revoked certain trade and financial sanctions and prohibitions against transactions involving Iran. Switzerland in February 1980 lifted the ban on the payment of interest on Swiss franc savings deposits of nonresidents; in addition, the National Bank resumed the payment of interest on time deposits of foreign central banks with a maturity of at least six months. At the same time, the limits on the forward sale of Swiss francs to foreigners were raised from 20 per cent to 40 per cent of the October 31, 1974 level for sales up to ten days and from 50 per cent to 80 per cent of that base date for sales over ten days. The limits on forward sales of Swiss francs to non- residents were lifted in March 1980 and interest payments were resumed on nonresident time deposits in Swiss francs with maturities of at least three months. The remaining ban on interest payments on nonresident sight and time deposits with maturities under three months was removed at the end of August. In June 1980 the National Bank decided to extend for one year its 1976 gentlemen's agreement with the Swiss Bankers' Association, whereby Swiss banks undertook to refra in from making deposits in Euro-Swiss francs or direct placements in Swiss francs in Switzerland for the account of and in the name of their branches or subsidiaries abroad. In September the National Bank relaxed the restrictions on capital exports, as follows : Domestic banks were allowed to participate freely in the granting of foreign currency-denominated loans and in the placement of notes in Swiss francs and other currencies for amounts not exceeding Sw F 10 million (or its counterpart in foreign currency). Trading of notes in Swiss francs among all domestic banks (not only among the issuing banks, as heretofore) and certain eligible investors was perm i t ted, subject to certain limitations. The placement of notes and debt certifi- cates with foreign banks and foreign monetary authorities was permitted, provided that the holders of such instruments undertook to keep them for their own account until maturity. The National Bank could require that the placement of notes with foreign monetary authorities be subject to agreement with the authorities concerned. The original maturity of loans should not be less than n ine years and that of notes, between three and eight years. Advance repay- ment would be subject to limitations. With regard to operations in foreign currencies, the National Bank reserved the right to introduce specific requirements, the general rule being that the banks could participate in foreign syndicates. Credits to nonresidents with multicurrency clauses would be allowed. Among other industrial countries, in July 1980 Australia eliminated the requirement that trading banks had to obtain prior approval f rom the Reserve Bank for large capital inflows before converting the foreign exchange involved into local currency, although exchange control approval would continue to be required for borrowing from abroad and for the transferr ing of shares in Australian companies to nonresidents. At the start of 1981, Austria authorized the extension of investment credits to 27 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS nonresidents, provided that their proceeds were used in Austria. In an e f fo rt to stem capital inflows, France in November 1980 lowered the money mar- ket intervention rate of the Bank of France and introduced a reserve requirement of 5 per cent on nonresidents' deposits. Within the context of other domestic monetary measures, Italy instructed the banks in February 1981 to ma in ta in their lending in foreign currency, other than export financing, f rom the end of March 1981 to the end of Decem- ber 1981 within the level of December 31, 1980. A noninterest-bearing deposit of 50 per cent was to be lodged on any lending in excess of that limit. While the Netherlands terminated the limits on banks' net external assets positions in Janua ry 1980, in Norway authorized banks were instructed in March 1980 to maintain their daily total positions in foreign exchange w i th in margins varying with the size of each bank's total assets. Sweden in June 1980 terminated the permits previously granted to certain banks to hold bonds in foreign currency; new permits were to be issued upon application with a stipulated maximum amount for each bank for the purchase of bonds and similar claims in foreign currency. In the area of portfolio investment, Australia in April 1980 permitted its residents to invest in fixed interest rate securities with ma tur i t ies of not less than one year, up to specified limits for individuals, large private companies, and public companies and institutions. In March 1980 the Federal Republic of Germany lowered the minimum maturity for domes- tic fixed-interest securities eligible for sale to non- residents from four to two years, and in November the m in imum ma tur i ty was reduced fu r ther to one year. Finally, the Bundesbank announced in March 1981 that the sale of securities to nonresidents would be authorized even if ma tu r i t ies of securities were less than one year. In this connection, approval by the Bundesbank of sales to nonresidents of specified domestic money market paper, which formerly xwas given only in exceptional circumstances, was now granted automatically. In December the Central Capital Market Committee decided to halt tempo- rarily any new issues of deutsche mark-denominated bonds by nonresidents. This restriction, for which exceptions were made for issues of international organizations, was lifted in April 1981. In Japan, the new Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law entered into force on December 1, 1980 with the completion or revision of most of the govern- mental and ministerial ordinances associated with it. Although external transactions had been substantially liberalized in recent years, the basic principle had 28 remained one of prohibition of transactions unless expressly permitted. The new law reversed that principle, providing that transactions can be made freely unless expressly prohibited. In the area of portfolio investment, while principally freeing the purchase and sale of securities, the law subjects, as a trans i t ional measure, any foreign acquisition of shares that would raise foreign holdings above a specified l im it (of normally 25 per cen t) to the same prior notice provisions as apply to direct investment. In April 1980 the Netherlands relaxed the ma tu r i ty requ irement for foreign borrowing to finance oil and gas exploration in the Netherlands sector of the European con t inen tal shelf; the m in imum ma tu r i ty of loans was eased from five years to less than five years on a case-by-case basis. In March 1980 Nor- wegian oil companies were allowed to hold their foreign currency assets as bank deposits and other short-term inves tmen ts with ma tu r i ty up to 12 months; subject to special permission f rom the Bank of Norway, domestic oil companies could also hold foreign currency assets w i th m a tu r i ty longer than 12 mon ths. In November 1980 Spain liberalized the procedure for foreign borrowing by residents; for loans w i th average terms to m a t u r i ty of at least one year, applications for au thor iza t ion would be approved au toma t ica l ly a f ter 15 working days, unless ques t ioned or turned down by the Bank of Spain. In March 1980 Sweden removed certain obstacles to capital inflows. The areas affected were the criteria for long-term borrowing abroad, external borrowing to finance the production for exports, and the advance redemp t ion of foreign loans. Also in March 1980 ma jor Swiss banks, in cooperation w i th the Na t ional Bank, decided to slow down the pace of foreign bond placements in the Swiss ma rke t. However, in April 1980 Switzerland perm i t ted foreign central banks and mone ta ry authorities to subscribe to short-term money market certificates issued by the Swiss Federal Governmen t, and in December other nonresidents could also subscribe to such certificates. In the area of direct inves tmen t, Aus tra l ia in April 1980 raised the annual l im i ts on inves tmen ts in equ i ty and real estate abroad up to specified limits for individuals, for large pr iva te companies, and for public companies and ins t i tu t ions. In France, restric- tions on direct investment by nonresidents in France and by residents abroad were relaxed in June 1980, and in August foreign companies domiciled in any EC coun try were permitted to acquire any partici- pation in the equity capital of a French company w i th the proviso that the Committee on Foreign Investment could, within two months, raise objec- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES tions if such a participation jeopardized public health, order, or security, concerned the sector of national defense, or was sought on account of a third party outside the EC area. In Japan, the new Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law replaced the previous approval requirement for direct investment by a requirement for prior notice, in response to which the responsible Ministers may suggest or require that the transaction be suspended or some of its particulars changed. Outward direct investment (including investment in real estate) could take place, provided prior notification was given, except in specified industries and any other cases where such investment would have an adverse effect on the economy. Among the developing countries which relaxed restrictions affec t ing capital flows through the bank- ing system, Argentina in August 1980 permitted banks to receive specified types of foreign currency deposits at freely negotiated interest rates and use the funds in loans to their customers. Brazil in January 1980 reduced the proportion of foreign loans to private borrowers subject to mandatory deposit at the Central Bank from 100 per cent to 75 per cent and the maximum retention period for the deposit from 210 days to 120 days. In May 1980 this period was fur ther reduced to 15 days, pro- vided that the funds are used for the rollover of loans to domestic firms. In December the limits for the daily bought and sold positions in foreign exchange of authorized banks were increased to US$750,000 for the bought and sold positions of banks with capital up to Cr$500 million; for banks with capital above that amount, the limits were US$1.5 million for the bought position and US$7.5 million for the sold position. Chile took a number of measures to liberalize banks' foreign exchange transactions, espe- cially with regard to capital inflows. Af ter partially raising in Janua ry 1980 the limit on the commercial banks' monthly rate of utilization of foreign borrow- ing registered under Article 14 of the 1977 Inter- national Exchange Law, the Central Bank eliminated the utilization limit altogether in April 1980. In addi- tion, during April-May 1980 (1) commercial banks were authorized to extend credit denominated in foreign exchange to domestic banks (as well as foreign banks in Chile); (2) foreign banks in Chile were permitted to borrow abroad for the purpose of extending credit denominated in foreign exchange; (3) banks were permitted to extend credit in foreign exchange to residents abroad within a certain limit; and (4) banks were permitted to deal in corporate debentures issued in foreign exchange and payable in domestic currency. In June the Central Bank elimi- nated the deposit requ i rement of 25 per cent on non- resident bank deposits. Greece announced the release of balances in blocked accounts held by indi- viduals in the member coun tr ies of the EC in six equal annual installments dur ing the period Janu- ary 1,1981 to December 31, 1985. In December 1980 Israel lowered the interest surcharge on foreign cur- rency borrowing by nonbank residents from Israeli banks f rom 12 per cent to 9 per cent and lowered the negative interest rate on the required deposit on all direct foreign borrowings by nonbank residents from 17 per cent to 4.5 per cent. Jordan in May 1980 raised the ceiling on permissible foreign currency deposits by Jordan ian nationals f rom the equivalent of JD 10,000 to the equivalent of JD 30,000. In con t inu ing its liberalization of capital transactions, Korea raised the limits on swaps between branches of foreign banks and the Bank of Korea in Janua ry 1980 to fac i l i ta te domestic currency lending by the branches. In June foreign bank branches were per- m i t ted to make loans to all enterprises with foreign inves tment involving fore ign ma jo r i ty participation. Initially, loans to ind iv idual enterprises were limited to less than 50 per cent of the amount of foreign inves tmen t, but this l im it was raised to 100 per cent in August 1980. In May Sri Lanka doubled the l im it on remittances abroad from nonresident blocked accounts which may be made w i thout prior exchange control approval to SL Rs 200,000, and permitted resident nonna t iona ls to ma in ta in foreign currency accounts w i th domestic commercial banks in any of ten designated currencies. In January 1981 Zimbabwe began to release assets up to speci- fied limits of former residents and never-resident individuals. Some developing coun tr ies liberalized capital transactions through nonbank ing channels. In July 1980 Argen t ina eliminated the one-year m in imum ma tu r i ty requ irement for foreign loans and the limit on the permissible marg in over interest rates prevail- ing abroad. Chile lowered the deposit requirement on the shorter ma tur i t ies of foreign borrowing regis- tered under Article 14 of the In terna t ional Exchange Law and established a m in imum amount of US$25,000 for such borrowing. Kuwa it reopened the Kuwa i ti d inar bond market in August 1980 to foreign borrowers; access by nonresidents had been restricted in November 1979 to allay a domestic liquidity shortage. Peru took some measures to liberalize capital flows. In Janua ry 1980 nonbanks were authorized to deal in foreign exchange and to hold a daily overbought position of up to US$100,000. In March foreign cash loans with a 29 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS maturity over three years and favorable terms were exempted from the cash deposit requirement on pri- vate sector borrowing from abroad, the rate of which had been raised from 15 per cent to 25 per cent in January 1980. In May foreign exchange proceeds other than those stemming from exports or their prefinancing could be deposited in accounts abroad. In March 1980, the South African Reserve Bank announced that it would grant approval more read- ily for the early repayment of certain loans, and in April it raised the forward premium of the rand against the U.S. dollar from 2.5 per cent to 12 per cent to stem the outflow of short-term capital result- ing from the large differential between domestic and foreign rates of interest. Since then the discounts have been adjusted regularly in accordance with changes in domestic and foreign short-term interest rates. In September 1980 Thailand extended for another year the exemption from the 10 per cent withholding tax on interest payments abroad for loans with an original maturity of more than 12 months. In the area of direct foreign investment, several developing countries introduced new measures to encourage direct investment. Argentina liberalized restrictions on direct investment in June 1980. Prior approval would no longer be required for investment up to certain limits in any of the country's stock markets. Moreover, approval was no longer required for investment in the public transportation service, and the limit on direct foreign investment without prior approval was raised substantially. In March MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN REGIONAL ARRANGEMENTS privately had to be deposited in a commercial bank by September 1, 1980. The definition of gold coin for investment was expanded. In Thailand, the purchase, sale, or lending of gold on commodity futures exchanges was prohibited. Taxes on gold were imposed or reimposed by several countries. In January 1980 the Federal Republic of Germany applied value-added tax also to the sale of foreign gold coins which are legal tender. Mexico imposed a 40 per cent tax on excess profits from the sale of gold. Spain imposed a 30 per cent luxury tax on purchases of gold; however, gold purchased for industrial use was exempt from the new tax. In Switzerland, the retail sales tax of 5.6 per cent on sales of gold and gold coins to non- banks, which had been suspended in 1954, was reintroduced in January 1980. The Philippines reimposed the 4 per cent export tax and the 20 per cent premium duty on gold. Singapore announced that effective 1981 the tax on profits from offshore gold transactions would be reduced from 40 per cent to 10 per cent. The People's Bank of China raised the price at which it purchased gold from Y 3.04 per gram to Y 13.00 per gram in March 1980. A new range of fractional Krugerrands in denominations of l/2, 1A and Mo rand was offered for sale in South Africa. In February 1981 South Africa raised the limit on the domestic sale of Krugerrands from 150,000 ounces to 300,000 ounces per year. Other member countries issuing gold coins during the review period included Austria, Canada, Mexico, Panama, and the United Kingdom. In the cases of Austria and Mex- ico, the newly issued coins were not legal tender. IV. Main Developments in Regional Arrangements Most of the specific steps at fostering economic and financial cooperation during the period under review were centered on the EC and various coun- try groupings in Africa. The EC strengthened its bilateral agreements with nonmembers and was enlarged by the accession of Greece. On the other hand, the implementation of the second, institutional stage of the EMS was postponed sine die.2Q On January 1, 1981 Greece became the tenth member of the EC.27 An Agreement of Association between the EC and Greece took effect on Novem- ber 1, 1962 as the first step toward eventual member- 26 Developments relating to monetary cooperation within the EMS are described in Section II, above. 27 In addition to the European Economic Community, Greece acceded to the European Atomic Energy Community (EURATOM) and to the ECSC. ship for Greece. On June 12, 1975 the Greek authorities applied for full membership in the EC, and the negotiations were formally completed on May 28, 1979 when the Treaty of Accession was signed. The Treaty of Accession allows for a transi- tional period of up to five years. However, a special transitional period of seven years will apply to the free movement of workers and to the treatment of certain agricultural products. In connection with the EC membership, the Greek authorities estab- lished a foreign exchange market in Athens with effect from November 12, 1980. In conformity with the EC regulations, Greece terminated all remaining bilateral payments arrangements on December 31, 1980 and initiated the phased elimi- nation of advance import deposits on January 1, 1981. Restrictions on payments of interest and dividends were also abolished upon accession, despite the authorization for Greece to prohibit, until the end of 1983, the transfer of profits realized in the country by EC investors up to the end of 1985. In accordance with a resolution of the European Council in December 1980, the ECU replaced the European Unit of Account (EUA) as of January 1, 1981 in all financial instruments of the EC. The Supplementary Protocol to the Free Trade Agreement between the EC and Portugal, signed in Brussels on December 19, 1979, entered into force on January 1, 1980 for a period of two years. Throughout the year, detailed negotiations aimed at the accession of Portugal to the EC in 1983 took place. Disbursements of funds under the 1976 Financial Protocol between the EC and Portugal, which came into effect on November 1, 1978, were accelerated in January 1980 when it was decided to disburse the EUA 200 million available within a three-year period ending on October 31, 1981. In December 1980 an agreement was signed under which the EC would provide EUA 275 million of preaccession aid to Portugal to facilitate the integra- tion of the Portuguese economy with that of the EC. This aid will take the form both of investment loans from the European Investment Bank's own resources and of money drawn from the EC budget. The Gov- ernment of Portugal has taken a first step toward freeing the movement of capital by defining certain "priority sectors" for foreign investment. Negotiations also continued during the period with respect to the accession of Spain to the EC. The EC and Turkey on June 30, 1980 reached agreement on a set of decisions concerning the reactivation and fu r ther development of the Associ- ation Agreement. In the agricultural sector, the 31 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Association Council decided to reduce the customs duties applicable to imports of Turkish products over a six-year period starting on January 1, 1981 and culminating in completely duty-free entry f rom January 1, 1987. In the social sector, the Associa- tion Council laid down the provisions to apply from December 1, 1980 to November 30, 1983 in respect of the free movement of workers. In the area of economic and technical cooperation, the main focus of attention will be the sectors of industry, energy, and training. Pending the entry into force of the four th Financial Protocol, Turkey will receive excep- tional aid in the form of grants totaling EUA 75 million. The four th Financial Protocol, due to enter into force on October 31, 1981, will provide a to tal amount of EUA 600 million over a five-year period. Under the Transitional Protocol between the EC and Cyprus, which was signed on February 7, 1980 and came into force on April 1, 1980, the first stage of the EC-Cyprus Association Agreement was initi- ally extended from December 31, 1979 to Decem- ber 31, 1980. The exploratory talks on transition to the second stage (establishment of a customs un ion) started on January 29, 1980. According to the terms of the Association Agreement, the customs union was to come into force in January 1981. How- ever, at a meeting on November 24, 1980 between the EC foreign ministers and a Cypriot delegation, it was agreed to extend the present agreement until the end of 1981. The first stage of the 1970 EC-Malta Association Agreement, which had been extended in 1977 un t il December 31, 1980, was extended for another six months to allow for fur ther negotiations. The EC and Yugoslavia signed a Cooperation Agreement and an Agreement on ECSC products in Brussels on May 6, 1980, in accordance with the Belgrade Declaration of December 2, 1976. The cooperation arrangements set up by the Agreement cover industry, science and technology, agriculture, energy, tourism, transport, the environment, fish- eries, and other areas. The provisions dealing with labor are based on similar agreements with the Maghreb countries (Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia) and with Portugal. As regards financial cooperation, the Agreement provides for the financing of invest- ment projects valued at EUA 200 million under a five-year Financial Protocol. A fu r ther aim of the Agreement is to promote trade between the parties, due account being taken of their respective levels of development. Once the Agreement is in force, imports of Yugoslav industrial products will be free of customs duties and quantitative restrictions except for a number of sensitive products. This Agreement, 32 like those with other Mediterranean countries, accords tariff concessions on certain agricultural exports of Yugoslavia, while Yugloslavia grants the Community most-favored-nation treatment. The Interim Agreement between the EC and Yugoslavia on trade and commercial cooperation and the Interim Protocol for the advance implementation of financial cooperation entered into force on July 1, 1980. The Second Lome Convention covering the period 1980-85, which was signed on October 31, 1979 by the EC and 58 African, Caribbean, and Pacific (ACP) States,28 came into force on January 1, 1981 and will remain in force until February 28, 1985.29 The ACP States that have not ratified the Conven- tion will not be covered by the new provisions. On February 27, 1980 St. Vincent and the Grena- dines formally acceded to the Lome Convention, bringing the number of developing countries covered by the Convention to 60 (including Zimbabwe). Zimbabwe applied for accession to the Second Lome Convention on April 18, 1980. Without waiting for the actual membership proceedings to be completed, the EC has made provisions for advance application of the provisions governing trade (i.e., in practice, free access to the EC market for Zimbabwean prod- ucts) under an Interim Agreement. This Interim Agreement came into force on January 1, 1981. The Cooperation Agreement between the EC and the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN)30 of November 1979 was formally signed by the ministers on March 8, 1980. The Agreement, renewable every two years af ter the first five years, covers cooperation between ASEAN and the EC in trade, economic, and development matters. It pro- vides for the setting up of a joint cooperation com- mittee to discuss fu tu re specific cooperation projects. 28 The 58 ACP states are divided into the following cate- gories by Lome II: ( 1) the least developed countries —Benin, Botswana, Burundi, Cape Verde, Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, Comoros, Djibouti, Dominica, Ethiopia, The Gambia, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Kiribati, Lesotho, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Rwanda, St. Lucia, Sao Tome and Principe, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands, Somalia, Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Tonga, Tuvalu, Uganda, Upper Volta, and Western Samoa; ( 2) the island and land- locked countries —Bahamas, Barbados, Equatorial Guinea, Fiji, Jamaica, Madagascar, Mauritius, Papua New Guinea, Trinidad and Tobago, Zaire, and Zambia; and ( 3) the others —Cameroon, Congo, Gabon, Ghana, Guyana, Ivory Coast, Kenya, Liberia, Nigeria, Senegal, and Suriname. 29 The main provisions of the Second Lome Convention were described in the Annual Report on Exchange Arrange- ments and Exchange Restrictions, 1980, page 26. 30 Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, and Thai- land. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN REGIONAL ARRANGEMENTS The nonpreferential agreement spells out the inten- tion of Allowing better mutual access to markets. On June 6, 1980 the EC Commission opened negotiations with India for the conclusion of an agreement on commercial and economic cooperation to replace the Commercial Cooperation Agreement of 1974. A Framework Cooperation Agreement covering commercial and economic relations was signed on September 18, 1980 between the EC and Brazil. This five-year Agreement will replace the more limited Trade Agreement signed in December 1973. The first meeting at ministerial level between the EC and the Andean Group 31 was held in Brussels on May 5, 1980. The talks covered a range of political and economic issues. The first trade accord between the EC and a member country of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA) 32 was signed between the EC and Romania on July 28, 1980. The Agreement is a five-year Nonpreferential Pact that will cover about 85 per cent of the total trade between the two parties. An Agreement covering the establishment of a joint commission was also signed. Both Agreements came into effect on January 1, 1981. The accord follows contacts in the past that led to Romania's participation in the EC system of generalized pref- erences for developing countries. The Multilateral Free Trade Agreement between the member countries of the EFTA and Spain entered into force on May 1, 1980. On July 1, 1980 the EFTA countries reduced their import duties on most industrial products imported from Spain by 60 per cent and on some sensitive products by either 30 or 40 per cent, except for iron and steel products, which are not covered by the agreement. At the same time, Spain reduced its duties on some industrial products imported from the EFTA countries by 60 per cent' and on a large number of other industrial products by 25 per cent. The Agreement provides that any fu ture concessions on industrial products given by Spain to the EC will also be granted to the EFTA countries and that any such concessions given by the EC to Spain will likewise be granted by the EFTA countries. Thus, it prepares the way for the complete removal of industrial tariffs, which will be the consequence of the application to Spain, once it enters the EC, of the free trade agreements be- tween the EFTA countries and the EC. Special provi- sions govern the trade between Portugal and Spain. The separate bilateral agricultural trade agreements between Spain and Austria, Finland, Norway, Sweden, and Switzerland entered into force on May 1,1980. The fifteenth session of the UN Economic Com- mission for Africa (ECA) and the Sixth Meeting of the Conference of Ministers were held in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, during April 9-12, 1980. At the regional level, the Ministers recommended that efforts should be undertaken to: (1) establish sub- regional clearing and payments arrangements where they do not exist and strengthen existing institutions with a view to ultimately linking them with an Afri- can clearing and payments union; (2) establish an African Monetary Fund; and (3) set up an African mutual guarantee and solidarity fund. During the Second Extraordinary Assembly of the Heads of State and Government of the Organization of Afr ican Unity (OAU) held in Lagos, Nigeria, on April 28-29, 1980, it was decided to adopt a Plan of Action for the implementation of the strategy for the economic development of Africa. Within this comprehensive Plan, targets were set aiming at strengthening existing subregional payments and clearing arrangements and establishing payments arrangements in those subregions where they do not exist. It was also decided that member countries should embark on negotiations for linking up such arrangements with a view to forming an African Payments Union before the end of the present dec- ade. The Plan also aims at establishing an African Monetary Fund. An intergovernmental meeting on the proposal for a regional common market covering 18 Eastern and Southern African na t ions33 was held in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, from May 28 to June 7, 1980. The previous two negotiating sessions were held in Gaberone, Botswana, in January 1980 and in Luanda, Angola, in June 1979. The discussions led to the adoption of a d ra ft treaty and accompany- ing protocols that would set up a preferential trade area as a first step toward a regional common mar- ket. The protocols cover reduction and elimination of trade barriers on selected commodities to be traded within the preferential trade area, re-export of goods, standardization and quality control of goods, transit trade, customs cooperation, coopera- tion in agricultural and industrial development, 31 Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Venezuela. 32 The participants are Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. 33 Angola, Botswana, Comoros, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kenya, Lesotho, Madagascar, Malawi, Mauritius, Mozambique, Seychelles, Somalia, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. 33 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS transport, and communications, rules of origin of goods, clearing and payments arrangements, simpli- fication and harmonization of trade documents and procedures, and the special situations of Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland. The fifth Summit Conference of the Economic Community of West African States (EcowAs)34 was held in Lome, Togo, on May 27-28, 1980. At the conference the Heads of State decided that, as part of the finalization of rules of origin, industrial enter- prises producing goods in the Community should have 20 per cent of their equity capital held by nationals of member states as from May 28, 1981, 35 per cent as from May 28, 1983, and 57 per cent as from May 28, 1989. Customs duties on industrial products originating in and traded within the Com- munity would begin to be eliminated by May 28, 1981 and the process would be completed by May 28, 1989. The elimination of nontariff barriers is to begin in all member states on May 28, 1981 and should be completed in May 1985. To compensate for the loss of revenue from tar iffs, it was decided that 20 per cent of contributions by the more advanced countries would be paid to the less advanced ones over an initial five-year period begin- ning immediately. With 8 35 of the 16 ECOWAS states having ratified the Protocol on the free move- ment of people, the legal barrier on the movement of people across the frontiers of ECOWAS member states has been removed with effect from July 24, 1980. One of the provisions of the Protocol is that ECOWAS citizens have the right to enter, reside, and establish business in any ECOWAS country. This right is to be accomplished in three stages, which should be completed during a maximum period of 15 years from the date the Protocol comes into effect. The Mano River Un ion36 signed an agreement with the West African Economic Community (WAEC)37 in early August 1980 designed to estab- lish a framework for close cooperation between the two organizations. The Agreement provides for the harmonization of programs of the two organizations, 34 The members are Benin, Cape Verde, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Ivory Coast, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Togo, and Upper Volta. 35 The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, and Togo. 36 The members are Liberia, Sierra Leone, and since October 1980, Guinea. 37 The members are Ivory Coast, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, and Upper Volta. 34 exchanges of information and studies, and collabora- tion between experts and technical personnel, with the possibility for joint financing of projects of mutual interest. Guinea formally became a member of the Mano River Union on October 3, 1980. In mid-1980 ASEAN economic ministers, in a move toward accelerating intra-ASEAN trade, agreed to a 20 per cent across-the-board tariff reduction on 6,188 items. This was the first such tariff reduction in ASEAN. The Board of Directors of the Asian Clearing Union 38 (ACU) at its meeting in February 1980 revised the operating procedures of the ACU. Effec- tive October 1980 all eligible payments between members must be channeled through the ACU. In addition, commercial banks in the region now settle individual payments through correspondent accounts maintained with each other rather than through the central banks. As a result, only the funding of such accounts or the disposal of their surplus balances need be arranged through the central banks. In March 1981 the foreign ministers of Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates agreed on the constitution of the Gulf Cooperation Council, designed to bind the six coun- tries together in a community similar to the EC. The constitution is to be ratified by the Heads of State in May 1981. The Latin American Integration Association (LAIA) was founded on August 12, 1980 to super- sede the Latin American Free Trade Association (LAFTA)39 at the beginning of 1981. By creating LAIA the member countries abandoned the more ambitious multilateral tariff cutting framework of LAFTA in favor of a more modest institutional framework which would tailor tariff cuts to the relative strengths of its 11 member countries. Bilateral tariff cutting negotiations are encouraged under the new framework with the idea that the benefits will be extended to other members in future periodic negotiations. LAIA has three categories of members according to economic size: the large countries of Argentina, Brazil, and Mexico in one group; the intermediate group comprising Colombia, Chile, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela; and the group of small economies consisting of Bolivia, Ecuador, and Paraguay. Negotiations by the Andean Group on a common 38 The members are the central banks of Bangladesh, Burma, India, Iran, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. 39 Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN REGIONAL ARRANGEMENTS external tariff and rules of origin continued during the year. On October 23, 1980, the foreign ministers of the Amazon countries 40 implemented the Amazon Cooperation Treaty, which is aimed at stimulating 40 Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Guyana, Peru, and ., r, , u- -c ,1 ^ „ — .f t_ .. . Suriname. T> A harmonious development and protecting the environ- ment of the countries in the Amazon area. The countries intend to work together on joint projects — such as damming the Amazon's tributaries —and to try to settle territorial disputes between its members. The Pact also aims to develop joint research pro- grams, transport agreements, common health stand- ards, an<^ trade arrangements. fe ' fc r ' 35 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANNEX POLICY ON MULT IPLE CURRENCY PRACTICES The Executive Board has reviewed the Fund's policy with respect to multiple currency practices. The Fund shall be guided by the approach outlined in the conclu- sions set forth below. 1. Official action should not cause exchange rate spreads and cross rate quotations to d iffer unreasonably from those that arise from the normal commercial costs and risks of exchange transactions. (a) (i) Action by a member or its fiscal agencies that of itself gives rise to a spread of more than 2 per cent between buying and selling rates for spot exchange transactions between the member's currency and any other member's currency would be considered a multiple currency practice and would require the prior approval of the Fund. ( i i) An exchange spread that arises without official action would not give rise to a multiple currency practice. ( i i i) Deviations between the buy ing and selling rates for spot transactions and for other transactions would not be considered multiple currency practices if they represent the additional costs and exchange risks for these other transactions. ( b) Action by a member or its fiscal agencies which results in midpoint spot exchange rates of other mem- bers' currencies against its own currency in a relation- ship which d iffers by more than 1 per cent from the midpoint spot exchange rates for these currencies in their principal markets would give rise to a multiple currency practice. If the differentials of more than 1 per cent in these cross rates persist for more than one week, the resulting multiple currency practice would become subject to the approval of the Fund under Article VIII, Section 3. When difficulties are encountered in the interpretation and application of these criteria in specific cases, par- ticularly concerning the nature of official actions, the staff will present the relevant in fo rma t ion to the Execu- tive Board for its determination. 2. The policy of the Fund on the exercise of its approval jurisdiction over exchange measures subject to Article VIII, as set forth in paragraph 2 of Executive Board Decision No. 1034-(60/27), adopted June 1, 1960, remains broadly appropriate. In accordance with this policy, the Fund will be prepared to grant approval of mu l t ip le currency practices introduced or maintained for balance of payments reasons provided the member represents and the Fund is satisfied that the measures are temporary and are being applied while the member is endeavoring to eliminate its balance of payments problems, and provided they do not give the member an u n f a ir competitive advantage over other members or discriminate among members. The Fund will continue to be very re luc tant to grant approval for the main- tenance of broken cross exchange rates. 3. In accordance with the Fund's policy on complex mu l t ip le currency practices, as stated in Executive Board Decision No. 649 - (57 /33 ), adopted June 26, 1957, the Fund will not approve mu l t ip le currency practices under complex mu l t ip le rate systems unless the countries ma in ta in ing them are mak ing reasonable progress toward simplification and ultimate elimination of such systems, or are t ak ing measures or adopting programs which seem likely to result in such progress. 4. While u rg ing members to apply a l terna t ive policies not connected with the exchange system, the Fund w i ll be prepared to grant temporary approval of mu l t ip le currency practices introduced or m a i n t a i n ed pr inc ipa l ly for nonba lance of payments reasons, provided that such practices do not ma te r ia l ly impede the member's balance of paymen ts ad ju s tmen t, do not ha rm the interests of other members, and do not d iscr im ina te among members. 5. To assist the Executive Board in reaching a decision concern ing approval or nonapp roval of a mu l- tiple currency practice subject to approval under Arti- cle VIII, Section 3, the reasons unde r ly ing the practice and its effects w i ll be analyzed in reports on Article IV consultations or in other staff papers dealing with exchange systems. In all cases, consistent with the cycle of consultations under Article IV, approval will be granted for periods of approximately one year, in order to provide for a continual review by the Executive Board. Decision No. 6790-^81/43) March 20, 1981 36 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT TWO ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Explanatory Note on Coverage of Individual Countries Part Two gives a detailed description of the exchange and trade system of individual member countries, includ- ing two nonmetropolitan territories. The exchange and trade system of one other country, which is not a member of the Fund, is also described. In general, the description relates to the exchange and trade systems as at the end of 1980, but in appropriate cases reference is made to significant developments that took place early in 1981. A standardized approach has been followed, under which the description of each system is broken down into similar headings, and the coverage for each coun- try includes a final section that lists chronologically the more significant changes dur ing 1980. The description of the restrictive system is not neces- sarily confined to those aspects involving exchange restrictions or exchange controls. As in previous Reports, questions of definition and ju r isd ic t ion have not been raised, and an attempt has been made to describe restrictive systems in their en t i re ty, except for the tar iff structure and, in most cases, direct taxes on exports and imports. Thus, the coverage extends to such features as import licensing, advance deposit requirements, import surcharges, travel taxes, export licensing, and export incentive schemes. Similarly, the section "Changes dur ing 1980" includes references to certain developments that may have a direct impact on international transactions but are not reflected in the body of the survey, such as ma jor revisions of import ta r i f fs or developments re la t ing to regional cooperation. The description given in the section Exchange Arrangement is in line with the no t if ica t ions of exchange arrangemen ts that member countries have fu rn i sh ed to the Fund under Article IV, Section 2(a). The struc- tu re of exchange markets is described, and the official exchange rate is given. The rates quoted are those effec- tive on December 31, 1980, unless stated otherwise. Under Administration of Control, some ind ica t ion is given of the authorities responsible for policy and adm in- istration of the controls and of the extent to wh ich the ir powers are delegated for work ing purposes. The section on Prescription of Currency describes the requirements a f fec t ing the selection of the cu r rency and method of settlement for transactions w i th o ther coun- tries. Where a country has concluded paymen ts agree- ments with other countries, the terms of these agree- ments o f ten lead to prescription of the currency for specified categories of payments to and f rom the countries concerned. The countries with which b i la te ral payments agreements are in force are listed either in the text or in a footnote. 38 Under Nonresident Accounts, a description is given of the manner in which the country treats accounts, if any, ma in ta ined in its currency by account holders who are not regarded as resident in that coun t ry, and the facil- ities and l im i ta t ions attached to such accounts. Where there is more than one type of nonresident account, the na tu re and operation of the various types are also described. In the section on Imports and Import Payments, import licensing requirements are described briefly, and details are given of other requirements imposed on pay- ments for impor ts and of any advance deposit require- ments. The term "open general license" indicates arrangemen ts whereby certain imports or other in terna- tional transac t ions are exempt f rom the restrictive application of licensing requirements, in contrast to an "individual license," which may be given e i ther free ly, or restrictively, according to adm in is t ra t ive decisions. Under Payments for Invisibles, the procedures for p e rm i t t ing paymen ts abroad for current transac t ions in inv is ib les are described briefly, together w i th any limita- tions on the export of fo re ign and domestic banknotes. For some countries that do not impose l im i ta t ions on paymen ts for invisibles, this section is combined with the section on Proceeds f rom Invisibles (see be low ). Export l icens ing requ i remen ts and procedures are described under Exports and Export Proceeds, w i th an ou t l ine of the requ i remen ts that may be imposed on the h and l ing of proceeds f rom exports. The expression "exchange receipts must be surrendered" indicates that the rec ip ient is required by the regulations to sell any fo re ign exchange proceeds in re tu rn for local currency, usua l ly at the off ic ial rate, to the central bank or to a commercial bank or exchange dealer authorized for this purpose. In some countries there is a requ irement that such exchange or pa rt thereof be sold in a f ree market. Under Proceeds from Invisibles, any cond i t ions gov- e rn ing exchange derived f rom t ransac t ions in invisibles are given, and any l im i ta t ions on the impo rt of fore ign and domestic bankno tes are described. The coverage under Capital describes the special a r rangemen ts or l im i ta t ions attached to in te rna t ional cap i tal movements. Where regulations on fore ign capital also cover the income thereon, they are u sua l ly dealt w i th in th is section ra ther than in the sections on Pay- ments for Inv is ib les and Proceeds f rom Invisibles. The section on Gold gives a summa ry of the pr inc ipal regu la t ions that govern the holding, nego t ia t ion, import, and export of gold coin and gold in other forms. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Afghanistan is the Afghani. Until May 21, 1979 Afghanistan maintained a multiple exchange rate system with differing rates being quoted by Da Afghanistan Bank (the central bank ), the com- mercial banks, and by dealers in the money bazaar. On May 21, 1979 the exchange rate system was unified with a unitary rate fixed by Da Afghanistan Bank. This unitary rate is fixed in terms of U.S. dollars and is flexible. On December 31, 1980 Da Afghanistan Bank's buying and selling rates were A f 4 6 . 75 and A f47 .82, respectively, per US$1. These rates are applied by Da Afghanistan Bank and by all other banks to all transactions of both the Government and the private sector. Da Afghanistan Bank posts rates for deutsche mark, French francs, Pakistan rupees, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs, which reflect their value relative to the U.S. dollar in international markets and the local bazaar foreign exchange market (see below). Da Afghanistan Bank charges commissions ranging from 0.10 per cent to 0.375 per cent on exchange transactions. A number of transactions take place in the bazaar foreign exchange market, where the rates closely follow the unified rates. Administration of Control Foreign exchange transactions are controlled by the Government through Da Afghanistan Bank. The con- trol is facilitated by the existence of relatively large companies specializing in the export of such com- modities as karakul, cotton, wool, and carpets. However, these companies do not exercise a monopoly over the export of such commodities, with the exception that the export of cotton is reserved for four authorized companies. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Afghanistan has bilateral payments agreements1 must be made in the foreign currencies specified in the agreements. The proceeds from exports of karaku l, wool, and cotton to other countries must be obtained in convertible curren- cies. There are no other prescription of currency requirements. Imports and L ^port Payments Imports are not subject to license, but import trans- actions must be registered before orders are placed abroad. Imports of a few items (e.g., some drugs, liquor, arms, and ammun i t ion) are prohibited on grounds of public policy or for security reasons; in some instances, however, special permission to import these goods may be granted. The importation of certain other goods (e.g., a few textiles and selected nonessential 1 People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, and U.S.S.R. consumer goods) also is prohibited. There are no quantitative restrictions on other imports. Most bilateral agreements, however, specify quantities (and sometimes prices) for commodities to be traded. Most of the trade with bilateral agreement countries is carried out on a compensation basis, and usually both imports and exports are arranged by the same trader; imports against exports of cotton, natural gas, and wool are carried out by the Government or government agencies, or the proceeds of such exports are allocated for servicing of the Government's external debt. The present customs tar iff structure was promulgated in June 1974 and has since then been modified in the annual budgets. Actual tar iff rates, ad valorem and specific, vary considerably. Ad valorem duties usually range between 20 per cent and 35 per cent. Payments for imports through the bank ing system to payments agreement countries may usually be made only under letters of credit. Payments to other coun- tries may be made under letters of credit, against bills for collection, or against an under tak ing by the importer to import goods at least equivalent to the payment made through the bank ing system. Generally, a deposit of up to 40 per cent of the c.i.f. value is required by banks from private enterprises upon establishment of a letter of credit. Payments for Invisibles There is an exchange allocation f rom the banks for tourist travel abroad equivalent to US$2,000 a trip. In addition, tourists are permitted to purchase their tickets locally, including tickets for package tours. On application, foreign exchange is also allocated for busi- ness travel, as well as for medical treatment abroad, the amounts being determined by the appropriate authori- ties. The fee for a passport valid for one year is Af 20,000 for tourist travel, Af 5,000 for business travel, and Af 1,000 to Af 2,500 for other types of travel. Export by travelers of foreign currency notes up to US$2,000 or its equivalent is permitted only if the foreign exchange has been bought from the banking system. Travelers are not allowed to take out more than Af 1,000 in domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports (other than gold) are not subject to license, but export transactions must be registered. Exports of a few commodities (e.g., opium and museum pieces) are prohibited. Otherwise, control is exercised only over exports to bilateral agreement countries (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above ). Proceeds f rom exports of karakul to all countries, including payments agreement countries, are received in convertible cur- rencies. Receipts from exports of karakul, wool, and 39 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN cotton must be surrendered. Export taxes are levied on cotton, oilseeds, and raisins and all other dried fru i ts .2 Proceeds front Invisibles Forty per cent of the foreign currency salaries of foreign employees working in the A fghan public and private sectors must be converted into Afghanis. Trav- elers entering Afghan is tan may br ing in any amount in Afghan banknotes. They may also bring in any amount in foreign currency but should declare it when entering the country if they intend to take out any residue when leaving the country. Capital Foreign investment in A fghan is tan requires prior approval and is administered by an Investment Com- mittee. The Foreign and Domestic Private Investment Law of 1353 (issued on July 4, 1974) provides for a number of benefits, which include (1) income tax exemption for four years (six years outside Kabul province), beginning f rom the date of the first sales of products resulting from the new investment; (2) exemp- tion from import duties on essential imports (mainly of capital goods); ( 3) exemption f rom taxes on dividends for four years a f ter the first distribution of dividends, but not more than seven years after the approval of the investment; (4) exemption from personal income tax and corporate tax on interest on foreign loans which constitute part of an approved investment; (5) exemp- tion from export duties, provided that the products are permitted to be exported; and (6) mandatory purchases fl Export taxes on raisins apply if prices exceed certain specified limits. From proceeds of exports of raisins an amount of US$50 a ton is credited to a government account for a price stabilization f u n d. Export proceeds of ka rakul are subsidized by the Gove rnment to the extent of the difference between the unified rate and a rate of Af 45 per US$1. There are no other export subsidies. by government agencies and departments of their requirements from enterprises established under the law where prices of such products are not more than 15 per cent higher than prices of fore ign supplies. The law provides that fore ign investment in A fghan is tan can only take place th rough jo int ventures, with foreign participation not exceeding 49 per cent. It also estab- lishes that an investment approved by the Investment Committee shall require no fu r ther license in order to operate in Afghan is tan. Payments of principal and interest on loans from abroad may be remitted freely to the extent of the legal obligation involved. Profits may be repatriated freely, and capital may be repatriated af ter five years at an annual rate not exceeding 20 per cent of the total registered capital. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell domes- tically gold in any form. Imports of gold are restricted. Exports of gold and silver in any fo rm other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Council of Ministers; such licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Commercial exports of gold and silver jewelry and of other articles containing minor quantities of gold or silver do not require a license and may be made freely. Customs duties are payable on imports and exports of silver in any form unless the import or export is made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Changes during 1980 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 40 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA (Position on December 31, 2980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Algeria is the Algerian Dinar. Since January 21, 1974 Algeria has followed an independent exchange rate policy. Daily buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, and other specified currencies1 are established by the Central Bank of Algeria on the basis of a fixed relationship between the dinar and a composite of currencies. The currencies included in the composite and their weights take into account the relative importance of payments, including capital transactions, that are made in these currencies. A margin of DA 0.015 has been established between the buying and selling rates of the d inar in terms of the U.S. dollar. An encouragement premium is granted on the conversion of convertible currencies repatriated by Algerians working abroad. The prem ium is adjusted so as to ensure that the exchange rate for such remittances is DA 1 = F 1. The foreign exchange reserves are centralized in the Central Bank; authorized banks must clear their foreign currency position with their foreign correspondents at the end of each day bu t, under certain conditions, they are permitted to hold cover for documentary credits outside Algeria. There are no forward exchange facilities. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank have general jurisdiction over exchange control. The Central Bank assists in the formu la t ion of the exchange legis- lation and regulations and is responsible for their appli- cation by the authorized banks. Au thor i ty over many exchange control procedures has been delegated to three commercial banks and the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses and global import quotas are issued by the Ministry of Commerce within the limits of a general import program. Import and export licenses require the visa of the Central Bank. The Societe Nationale pour la Recherche, la Production, le Transport, la Transformation et la Commercialisation des Hydrocarbures ( SON ATRAC H) has a monopoly over imports and domestic sales of petroleum and petroleum products, and handles most exports of these commodi- ties. Investment of foreign capital in excess of DA 500,000 in Algeria requires approval by a National Investment Committee in order to obtain the benefits of the Investment Code. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which no payments agreements are in force are made in convertible cur- 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. rencies. Settlements with countries with which Algeria has concluded bilateral payments agreements2 are made through special accounts under the terms of the agree- ments. Some of these accounts are denominated in A lger ian d inars and others in U.S. dollars of account. Paymen ts under foreign supp ly contracts (contrats de fournitures) can be made in either the currency in use at the headquarters of the supplier or that of the country of origin of the merchandise. Foreign holders of supply contracts are required to open local nonresident accounts to which deposits are made by importers under the con- tracts in payment for merchandise; such accounts must be closed w i th in six months f rom the end of contract, beyond which da te outward t rans fe rs of the funds or their use for purposes unrelated to the contracts is not permitted. Nonresident Accounts Most nonresident accounts are Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars or In te rnal Nonresident Accounts. There are at present four types of accounts, as follows: ( 1) Individual Suspense Accounts may be opened w i thout au thor iza t ion and may be credited with pay- men ts from any coun t ry. Balances in such accounts opened prior to January 1, 1975 by nonresident physical persons of foreign na t iona l i ty have been released for t rans fer abroad. ( 2) Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars (CEDAC accoun ts) may be opened by ind iv idua ls, or juridical persons of fore ign na t iona l i ty, inc lud ing those under supp ly contract arrangements. Such accounts may be credited only w i th deposits tha t, under the regulations applicable when the deposit is made, are free f rom any restrictions on t rans fe r. They may not be credited with amoun ts that are transferab le to the bilateral area. They may be debited for payments to any foreign country, for paymen ts in Algeria, or for the provision of foreign banknotes which the account holder intends to take out of Algeria. These accounts bear interest and may not show a net debt position. ( 3) Final Departure Accounts may be opened, with- out prior authorization, in the name of any physical per- son residing in Algeria, but not of Algerian nationality, who in tends to leave Algeria to re turn to the country of origin, and also for nonresident nationals. These accounts may be credited freely with an amount equiv- alent to the holdings on October 20, 1963 in the account of the person concerned; with the proceeds f rom sales of real estate of the account holder, provided that the funds are paid directly by a notary public; with the proceeds of the sale of securities through a bank; and 2 Algeria maintains payments agreements with Albania, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, and U.S.S.R. Specified noncommercial settlements with Morocco and Tunisia are channeled th rough a d irham account at the Bank of Morocco and an account in Tunisian dinars at the Central Bank of Tunisia. 41 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA with any other payments, up to DA 2,000. The Central Bank may authorize the crediting of other specific pay- ments. These accounts may be debited without prior approval for certain payments in Algeria on behalf of the account holder. Outward transfers require individ- ual approval. Emigrant workers may maintain certain accounts in Algeria that are credited with the proceeds from the conversion of convertible currencies (comptes epargne- devises). Depositors receive a premium equivalent, in principle, to one eighth of the amounts deposited; in practice, the premium is a flexible one ensuring an effective conversion rate of DA 1 = F 1. Withdrawals may be made only in Algerian dinars. (4) Convertible Dinar Accounts for Nonresident Algerians were introduced in January 1980 as a means of attracting deposit funds f rom Algerian workers abroad. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South A f r ica are prohibited. Certain imports are prohibited regardless of origin. Law No. 78-02 of February 11, 1978 gives the Govern- ment a monopoly over foreign trade. All imports are permitted, in principle, in accordance with an annual import program. This is implemented mainly through global import authorizations (autorisations glob ales d'importation or AGI) granted to public enterprises. Imports made "without payment" (sans paiement), i.e., imports which do not involve compensation of any kind and are not subject to any specific prohibition, are exempt from all exchange and trade control formalities when valued at DA 5,000 or less. The Government's monopoly over the importation of commodities is effected through the Office National de Commercialisa- tion (ONACO ), the Office Algerien Interprofessionnel de Cereales (OAIC), the Office National de Commercia- lisation des Produits Vitivinicoles (ONCV ), the So- ciete Nationale des Nouvelles Galeries Algeriennes (SNNGA ), the Societe Nationale des Tabacs et Allu- mettes (SNTA), the Societe Nationale d'Edition et de Diffusion (SNED ), the Societe Nationale de Siderurgie (SNS), the Societe Nationale de Constructions Meca- niques (SONACOME ), SONATRACH, and other similar organizations. All imports must be domiciled with an authorized bank, to which the necessary import documents must be presented and through which all payments related to the transaction must be made. Unless the Central Bank approves otherwise, advance payments may not exceed DA 5,000 or 20 per cent of the import va lue, whichever is smaller. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles to all countries require the approval of the Central Bank. When supporting documents are presented, however, approval may be granted by authorized banks, or sometimes by the Postal Administration, either freely or up to specified 42 limits for certain payments such as ( 1) those relating to approved trade transactions and maritime contracts, (2) travel expenses, ( 3) transfers of salaries and wages, ( 4) educational expenses, and (5) advertising expenses. For payments for which the approval authority has not been delegated, the granting of exchange must be author- ized by either the Central Bank or the Ministry of Finance. Certain public enterprises, which receive special exchange allocations (budget devises), may use these freely for payments for specified invisibles, includ- ing transportation and other services contracted abroad. The transfer of fam i ly remittances is suspended. Residents of other countries working in Algeria under the programs for technical cooperation or for public enterprises and agencies or for certain mixed com- panies may t rans fer abroad a percentage of their net salaries, as follows: 55 per cent for single persons and married persons having their families in Algeria; 75 per cent for persons having their families abroad; and 85 per cent for employees of mines and the hydrocarbon sector working in the southern regions. For other workers who have contracts with other employers and hold the neces- sary employment documents, the amounts that may be transferred are 35 per cent for single persons and married persons hav ing their families in Algeria and 55 per cent for persons having their families abroad. The payments must be transferred once a month on the basis of the remuneration for the previous month. Per- sons mak ing such transfers are not entitled to allocations for other personal transfers. For residents (excluding those who may transfer a certain percentage of their net salary abroad) traveling by air or sea to foreign countries, inc lud ing countries in the French Franc Area, other than for medical reasons, the foreign exchange allocation is equ iva lent to DA 300 a person a trip (DA 150 for children under 15 years) and is delivered on presentation of a valid passport and travel vouchers; for overland travel, the allocation is DA 300 a person a ca lendar semester for adults and DA 150 for children under 15 years. For those travel- ing for medical reasons ( inc lud ing accompanying per- sons) the allowance is DA 800 a person a trip and DA 400 for a child under 15 years. These allocations are not applicable to persons living in border areas. Foreign exchange for private business travel is subject to authorization by the Central Bank and allocations may not exceed DA 1,500 a trip. Algerian workers who have permission to emigrate are en t i t led to an exchange allocation upon departure. Em igrant Algerian workers who take their vacations in Algeria may upon return abroad repurchase foreign exchange equivalent to one fifth of the amount sold upon arrival, but not exceeding DA 1,000. P i lgr ims t rave l ing to Saudi Arab ia receive an alloca- tion in Saudi Arabian riyals; the amount of this allow- ance is fixed for each pilgrimage and may be furnished in the fo rm of checks that may be cashed on arrival for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution those traveling by sea or by air. Resident travelers may take out Algerian dinar banknotes up to DA 50 a per- son. Nonresident travelers may also re-export any foreign currency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Afr ica are prohibited. Certain exports, including used equipment and machin- ery, livestock, firearms, ammun i t ion, explosives, and certain radio equipment, are prohibited regardless of destination. All other exports may, in principle, be effected freely, w i thout an export license, with the exception of exports to countries with which Algeria has bilateral payments agreements. Some commodities may be exported, subject to ind iv idual prior approval, on the basis of linked transactions (transactions liees) involv- ing at the same time an authorized import transaction. Since the promulgation of Law No. 73-02 of Febru- ary 11, 1978, which conferred upon the Government a monopoly over foreign trade, exports may only be effected by public sector entities, unless a waiver is granted for a transitional period on a case^by-case basis. Exports must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Sales on consignment are subject to au thor iza t ion by the Ministry of Finance, and registration must take place prior to customs clearance. Export proceeds must be repatriated immediately af ter collection; the due date of the export contract must be not la ter than 30 days following shipment, except when prior authoriza- tion from the Central Bank is obtained. Those petroleum companies that hold mineral rights must repatriate to Algeria the proceeds f rom their exports of hydrocarbons calculated on the basis of a contractual price per barrel that is fixed by agreement with the companies concerned. For one petroleum company holding mineral rights, however, there are d i f fe rent repa tr ia t ion requirements. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated and surrendered. Savings repatriated in the form of con- vertible currencies by Algerians working abroad are eligible for an encouragement premium. There are no restrictions on the import of foreign banknotes, coin (except gold co in ), checks, and letters of credit, but nonresidents, inc lud ing those of Algerian nationality, must declare such holdings when they enter Algeria. Resident travelers may reimport Algerian d inar bank- notes up to DA 50 a person. Nonresident travelers are not permitted to bring in Algerian banknotes. ALGERIA Capital Residents are obliged to repatriate and surrender capital assets (or the sales proceeds thereof) held or acquired outside Algeria. Capital transfers to any desti- nation are subject to ind iv idual license; residents are not normally permitted to acquire capital assets outside Algeria. All borrowing abroad or f rom nonresidents is subject to prior approval by the M in is ter of Finance or the Central Bank. The Investment Code of September 15, 1966 pro- vides for state guarantees in respect of foreign invest- ments of more than DA 500,000 in the industrial and tourist sectors and for a retransfer guaran tee in respect of the sale or liquidation proceeds of invested foreign capital. It also establishes that profit remittances on such investments will be permitted up to 15 per cent annually of the foreign capital or ig ina l ly invested. Tax facilities may also be granted, and investments of more than DA 5 million may be given exclusive rights in a specified geographic area and may be accorded tar iff protection. Remittances of profits and retransfers of capital are permitted only in respect of investments approved under the code. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Algeria for num i sma t ic purposes. Under Ordinance No. 70-6 of J anu a ry 16, 1970, unworked gold for indus- trial and professional use is d is tr ibu ted by the Agence Nationale pour la Distribution et la Transforma t ion de 1'Or et des Autres Metaux Precieux (AGENOR ). This agency is also authorized to purchase in Algeria, and to hold, process, and distribute any other precious metal, and, within the exchange control regulations, to import and export any precious me ta l, inc lud ing gold. Imports of gold for use by dentists and goldsmiths are made by AGENOR, under import licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank. Changes during 1980 In the course of the year, a number of add i t ional pub- lic corporate monopolies were established for the importation of a wide range of items. January 2. Convertible Dinar Accounts for Non- resident Algerians were introduced as a means of attracting deposit funds from Algerian workers abroad. January 2. Customs duties were reduced on a wide range of consumer goods imports. April 18. Exchange and trade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe (former ly Rhodesia) were lifted. 43 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Argentina is the Argentine Peso. The authorities announce in advance a monthly sched- ule of depreciation vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar.1 On December 31, 1980 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the in terven t ion currency, were $a 1,989 and $a 1,996, respectively, per US$1. Buying and sell- ing rates for certain other currencies2 are also officially quoted, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on markets abroad. Exchange transactions are subject to a tax of 0.6 per cent on purchases and sales of fore ign exchange. For- ward exchange operations are permitted in the private sector with maturities of up to 360 days and at rates agreed by buyers and sellers. Argen t ina formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from May 14, 1968. Administration of Control All exchange transactions must be carried out through entities authorized expressly for this purpose. These authorized entities include banks, exchange agencies, exchange houses, and exchange offices; each of these types of institutions may be subject to separate regu- lation. Prescription of Currency V ir tua l ly all payments between Argentina and Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecua- dor, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made through accounts maintained by the Central Bank of Argentina and the central banks concerned, under reciprocal credit agreements within the f rame- work of the mu l t i la teral clearing system of the La t in American Integration Association (LA IA ). Argen t ina and Cuba maintain a reciprocal credit arrangement by means of special accounts in each central bank, through which transactions between the two countries are settled; the limit under these accounts is US$10 million. Trans- actions with other countries must be settled in freely usable currencies. 1 The rules gove rn ing the mon th ly ra tes of deprec ia t ion of the exchange ra te for the first three mon ths of 1981 were announced on December 10, 1980. On Feb rua ry 3, 1981 the peso was deprec ia ted by 9.1 per cent vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar, and a schedu le of daily exchange ra tes t h r o u gh Augu st 31, 1981 was pub l ished. On Apr il 2, 1981 the spot b u y i ng and selling ra tes of the peso in t e rms of the U.S. do l lar were deprec ia ted by 23.2 per cent and 24.5 per cent, respec t ive ly; it was also announced that the exchange ra te of the peso wou ld be ad jus ted by small amoun ts at f r e q u e nt in te rva l s. 2 Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian f ranc s, Canad ian dollars, Danish k rone r, deutsche m a rk, Finnish m a rkk a a, French f r an c s, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds ster- l ing, Po r tuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 44 Nonresident Accounts Au thor ized banks may open accounts in pesos and in foreign exchange in the name of any nonres iden t, provided that the accounts are credited w i th rem i t tances of convertible currencies only. Balances on nonres ident accounts may be used f ree ly for any purpose, in Argen- t i na or abroad. Transfers between accounts may be e f fec ted freely, except in payment for exports. Imports and Import Payments Imports are free of import and exchange licensing. Paymen ts may be made in any convertible currency. All impor ts by the p r iva te or public sector valued at US$1,000 or more ( f .o .b .) require a sworn Declaration of Need to Import (Declaration Jurada de Necesidad de Importation) submitted by the importer to the Na t ional Impo rt Directorate. Registration of the declaration is au toma t ic. Fur thermore, public sector imports require approval by the Central Bank w i th regard to debt. In add i t ion to customs duties, imports are subject to the fo l low ing taxes: a stamp du ty of 0.6 per cent; selec- t ive in te rnal taxes rang ing f rom 5 per cent to 22 per cent; and a tax of 12 per cent on maritime f re igh t. Impo r ts may be f u l ly paid for against sh ipmen t. For cap i tal goods, advance payment of up to 20 per cent of the f.o.b. va lue is permitted. The liabilities incurred may be pa r t ia l ly or entirely discharged prior to the o r ig ina l ly agreed deadlines, regardless of the instrument used. Items not considered as capital goods may have up to 180 days' f inanc ing, but this l im i ta t ion does not app 'y in the case of suppliers' credits. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for invisibles may be made free ly. Sales of fo re ign exchange without a written declaration of pur- pose are perm i t ted up to US$20,000. There are no limits w i th respect to purchases of for- eign cu r rency by Argen t ine res iden ts for travel pur- poses. Travelers may take out any amount in domestic bankno tes and coin, inc lud ing gold coin and "good delivery" gold bars. Exports and Export Proceeds M in imum export prices (reference prices) are estab- lished for many ag r icu l tu ral and livestock exports as a basis for the payment of duties and the su r render of export proceeds. The fu ll f.o.b. proceeds f rom all exports must be repa tr ia ted and surrendered; the pro- ceeds must not be less than the reference price, or if there is no reference price, the f.o.b. va lue declared on the sh ipp ing permit. Proceeds may be received in any conver t ib le currency. The proceeds f rom t rad i t ional exports must be surrendered within 180 days of ship- ment. No such limit exists for the proceeds from pro- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution moted exports (listed in Central Bank Circular R.C. 704). Certain nontraditional exports are eligible for rebates (drawback, reintegro, and reembolso).3 Some products are subject to export taxes (derechos de exportation) calculated on the basis of the f.o.b. sales value or on reference prices. The tax must be paid before shipment of the merchandise, or within eight working days when there is a bank guarantee of payment. All exports are subject to a 2 per cent tax on maritime freight costs. Certain other taxes are also levied on specific exports. These include a 2 per cent tax on exports of agricultural and livestock products, the proceeds of which are destined for the National Institute for Agricultural and Livestock Technology, and a tax of 1 per cent or 2.5 per cent, depending on the product, levied on grain exports and earmarked for the National Grain Board. Many exports, particularly nontraditional exports, are eligible for export incentives of various kinds. The Central Bank has established a system of special financ- ing, to be granted to Argentine exporters through banks, with a view to promoting exports of certain goods and services.4 Certain products, mostly nontraditional exports, may be shipped "on consignment" for 360 days; if not sold within that period, the goods must be returned to Argentina. Proceeds front Invisibles Exchange derived from invisibles need not be sur- rendered. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes and coin, as well as gold coin and "good delivery" gold bars. Capital Proceeds from foreign loans must be sold in the exchange market. In general, there are no limitations on inward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents. The inflow of financial loans under taken by local foreign- owned enterprises and originating f rom foreign enter- prises which either directly or indirectly controlled the borrowing enterprises or are their subsidiaries require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Loans endorsed or guaranteed by the State also require prior authoriza- tion from the Central Bank. Banks may accept foreign currency deposits with minimum maturities of 90 days and lend the proceeds domestically at freely determined rates of interest. Foreign borrowing by the public sector is regulated by Decree-Law No. 19328 of October 29, 1971 and Decree No. 3532 of November 25, 1975. Outward capital transfers are restricted. The fore ign investment regime is regulated by Law 3 A drawback involves the devolution to the expor ter of t a r i f fs and other customs charges on the imported inputs used in production for export; a reintegro is a r e f u nd of domestic taxes levied on inpu ts used in production for export; a reembolso is a g rant to an exporter expressed as a percentage of the value of eligible exports. 4 The Argen t ine Export Credit Insurance Company provides credit insurance against commercial and o rd ina ry risks and also coverage for ex t rao rd ina ry risks and for exports of capital goods and consumer durables and certain other consumer goods. ARGENTINA No. 21382 (Decree-Regulation No. 283 of Feb- ruary 4, 1977) and by amendments introduced by Law No. 22208 promulgated by Decree No. 1062 of June 30, 1980. Investments may be made in freely convertible foreign currency; new or used capital goods and their spare parts and accessories; profits and capital in Argentine pesos belonging to foreign inves- tors, provided that they are legally transferable abroad; capitalization of external credits in freely convertible foreign currency; in tang ib le assets (bienes inmateriales); and any other form acceptable to the implementing authority or covered by a special regime or a promo- tion regime. For approval purposes, investments are classified into three categories, as follows: (1) Subject to prior approval by the National Execu- tive are (a) investments in the defense and national security sectors, in public service sectors including the postal system, electricity, gas, and telecommunications, and in radio transmitters, television stations, newspapers, periodicals and magazines, energy, education, and finan- cial and insurance institutions; (b) transfers of capital and the acquisition of shares (the latter being permissi- ble only in exceptional cases when it is manifestly bene- ficial to the national economy), which involve changing the national ownership structure of a local firm belong- ing to national investors and having net assets exceeding US$10 million; (c) acquisition of goodwill belonging to national investors and having a value exceeding the above-mentioned;amount; (d) when the amount exceeds US$20 m i l l ion; (e) when the investor is a jur id ical per- son under public law; and ( f) when special or promo- tional benefits are requested that can be granted only by the Na t ional Executive and the proposed investment is contingent on them. (2) No prior approval is required for (a) total or partial reinvestment of a registered foreign investor's profits (even in the sectors referred to in item (1) above ), provided they do not involve changing the national ownership structure of the receiving firm and are intended to foster the activities for wh ich the original investment was approved or which the firm was develop- ing when the law entered in to force; (b) new invest- ments in f ree ly convertible foreign currency made for the same purposes as mentioned in item ( 1) above and not exceeding 30 per cent of the registered capital in the receiving firm and which do not involve converting it into a "domestic firm with fore ign capital," or new investments that are made pu r suant to a preferen t ial right and in order to ma in ta in an interest equal to or lower than what was held up to that time; (c) new t rans fe rs of freely convertible foreign currency not exceeding US$5 million and not involving a change in the na t ional ownership s t ruc tu re of an existing local firm; and (d) investment in any of Argen t ina's stock markets, prov ided that the amount does not exceed US$2 million for each foreign investor and so long as 45 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA total foreign investment does not exceed 2 per cent of the capital of the company involved. ( 3) All other foreign investments are subject to prior approval by the implementing authority, which must give its decision within 120 days f rom the date on which the investment proposal is submitted. Foreign investments existing prior to the entry into force of the Foreign Investment Law are governed by its provisions, which include a special regime for their inscription and definitive recognition. Existing and new foreign investments, as well as all cap i tal movements relating thereto, may be recorded in the Register of Foreign Investments, which is kept by the Central Bank. Registered foreign investments may generally be repatriated three years a f ter entry into Argentina, unless a longer period was fixed when the investment was approved. The right to t ran s fer profits and to repa tr ia te capital related to properly registered investments can be suspended only by the National Executive. In that event, registered foreign investors are entitled to receive, for the remittance of profits abroad, the equivalent of the sum to be transferred in external public debt securi- ties denominated in foreign currency, at the rate of interest ruling in the international market, against pro- vision of the equivalent in Argentine pesos. Profits in money or in kind on registered foreign capital are subject to a special tax on after-tax profit when they exceed 12 per cent of registered capital on an annual basis. This tax is 15 per cent on profits of more than 12 per cent and up to 15 per cent of regis- tered capital, 20 per cent for those of more than 15 per cent and up to 20 per cent of registered capital, and 25 per cent for those of more than 20 per cent of registered capital. The extension of domestic credit to "domestic firms with foreign capital" is subject to special provisions, as set forth in Law No. 21382 (Article 17) and Decree No. 283 /77 (Article 71, as amended in 1980). Gold Residents may hold gold coin and gold in any other form in Argen t ina or abroad. Financial ins t i tu t ions, exchange houses, and exchange agencies may buy or sell gold in the form of coin or "good delivery" bars among themselves or w i th customers in A rg en t ina or abroad. Gold exports must be paid for in convertible currencies. Imports of gold by industrial users are sub- ject to a statistical du ty of 0.6 per cent, and those by other users are subject in add i t ion to sales tax. Changes during 1980 January 2. The deadline for amor t iz ing fo re ign cur- rency loans used to finance exports was extended to 360 days (Circular No. R.C. 869 ); also, the dead l ine for applications for outward remittance of fore ign cur- rency income derived from export prepayment was extended to 360 days. January 11. A rebate of 10 per cent was introduced 46 for exports of apples and pears. January 24. Resolution No. 110/80 of the M in is try of Economy provided for a d im in ish ing scale of impo rt t a r i f fs on color television sets, as fo l lows: 1980, 60 per cent; 1981, 55 per cent; 1982, 54 to 48 per cent; 1983, 46 to 38 per cen t; and 1984, 35 per cent. February 18. Minimum c .i .f. prices (aforos) for impor ts of color television sets were fixed, va ry ing between US$350 and US$660, depend ing on size. February 26. Dehydrated apples and pears were made e l ig ib le for a 10 per cent export rebate. March 7. The au thor i t ies extended un t il the end of December 1983 ta r i ff exemptions r e l a t ing to 768 t a r i ff lines of mechanical and electrical mach ine ry not pro- duced in A rgen t ina; a f t er 1983, the app l icab le ta r i ff wou ld be 10 per cent. April 24. The m a x im um v a lue of impor ts exempted f rom the Declaration of Need was fixed at und er US$500 to US$1,000 f .o .b. (exc lud ing consu lar f e e s ). April 29. An a n t i d um p i ng du ty of 3.04 per cent was announced on certain textiles f rom Braz i l. April 29. M in imum impo rt prices were a n n o u n c ed for 13 types of textiles. May 5. Decree PE 1062/80 consolidated ex is t ing regu la t ions on fo re ign inves tmen t. May 10. A 10 per cent export rebate was announ c ed for soybean de r iva t ives. May 16. A 10 per cent export rebate was gran ted for certain dehydra ted f r u i t s, inc lud ing cherries, plums, and peaches. May 16. A 3.6 per cent export reba te was g r an t ed to ce r ta in mea ts and meat prepara t ions. June 6. E l ig ib i l i ty for p re f inanc ing of promoted exports was gran ted to 34 meats, meat prepara t ions, and meat by-produc ts. June 16. Controls on impo r ts of chrome, fe r roch rome, and steel w i th chrome con tent f rom Z imbabwe ( fo r- me r ly Rhodes ia) were l i f ted. June 26. A 12.5 per cent export rebate was gran ted to 19 syn the t ic textiles and ya rns; on the same date, a 10 per cent export reba te was in t rodu c ed for exports of bristles, ta i ls, and neck cu t t ings of mea t. June 26. A 15 per cent export reba te was g ran ted to 24 glass m anu f a c tu r e r s. June 30. The Foreign Inves tment Law i n t r o d u c ed on Feb rua ry 4, 1977 was f u r t h er l ibe ra l ized. Prior app roval wou ld no longer be requ ired for inve s tment in any of the coun t ry 's stock ma rke ts, p rov ided that the am o u nt did not exceed US$2 m i l l ion for each fo re ign investor and so long as the inves tment did not exceed 20 per cent of the cap i tal of the comp any i n v o l v e d. A p p r o v al by the execu t ive branch was no long er r e q u i r ed for inves tment in the pub l ic t ran spo rt services. The l im it on direct fo re ign inves tment w i thout pr ior app roval was raised f rom US$5 m i l l ion to US$20 m i l l ion. July 7. Resolution No. R.C. 894 e l im i n a t ed the one- year m i n im um requ irement for fore ign loans. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution July 16. The 30 per cent import duty was eliminated for certain kinds of tractors. July 16. A wide variety of goods not produced in Argentina was exempted from import duties (Resolution No. ME 963/80). July 31. Private imports not exceeding US$25 in value and received by parcel post were exempted from import duty. (Imports of alcoholic beverages and tobacco were not included.) August 6. By Circular No. RF 1165/RC 901, it was announced that the banks could accept sight and fixed- term foreign currency deposits with minimum maturity of 90 days and lend such funds internally at freely agreed rates of interest. The deposits would not be guaranteed by the Central Bank of Argentina. August 12. The export duty on minerals and con- centrates of uranium and gold was reduced from 25 per cent to 0 per cent. August 15. Resolution No. 1375 of the Ministry of Economy established export rebates of 20 per cent for fish (whether fresh, chilled or frozen, dried or smoked, or salted), squid, and other seafood; the rebates were scheduled to be reduced by 2.5 per cent each time on July 1, 1981 and on January 1, 1982. August 18. Cement, previously exempted from import duty, became subject to a 10 per cent duty. August 21. The export duty on hare skin was reduced from 25 per cent to 15 per cent. August 22. A 10 per cent export rebate was extended to citrus fruits. September 1. The reciprocal credit agreement between the central banks of Argentina and Cuba went into effect. Under this agreement, all settlements for trans- actions between natural or juridical persons of the two countries would be made in freely convertible dollars through special accounts opened in each central bank. The accounts would have credit limits of US$10 million and balances in excess of these limits would be settled on a four-monthly basis, within a period of eight days from the end of the four-month period. September 16. Circular No. R.C. 907 announced that the peso would be devalued by 1 per cent a month in the last two months of 1980. The sliding schedule ARGENTINA of devaluation announced by Circular No. R.C. 853 (October 1, 1979), now superseded, would result in a devaluation of the same percentage in October 1980. September 23. Import duty exemptions were granted for 111 steel and iron products not made in Argentina. October 7. Import duties were eliminated on 51 prod- ucts, consisting predominantly of chemicals. October 9. The export duty on tungsten mineral and concentrates were reduced from 15 per cent to 0 per cent. October 14. As a result of a severe drought in ma jor wheat producing areas, wheat export registrations were suspended un t il fu r ther notice. October 20. The export duty on molasses was reduced from 15 per cent to 10 per cent. October 28. Export duties were eliminated on items in 42 ta r i ff lines for hides and skins. October 28. Resolution No. 1871/80 of the Ministry of Economy introduced an export grant of 10 per cent for 387 agricultural and indus tr ial products; it also provided that other export rebates at 25 per cent would be reduced by 2 per cent at the beginning of 1982, and thereafter by 1.5 per cent each semester until a rate of 20 per cent was reached at the beginning of 1983, when this rate of export rebate together with other lower rates would be trimestrally reduced by 0.5-2.0 per cent, according to a fixed schedule aimed at complete elimi- nation by J anu a ry 1, 1986. November 8. A countervailing duty of 26.45 per cent was authorized on the f.o.b. value of imports of photocopying paper from Brazil. November 8. A countervailing duty of 26.23 per cent was authorized on the f.o.b. value of imports of certain paper (papel obra) from Brazil. November 10. Import duties on 48 agricultural inputs were reduced to either 10 per cent or 0 per cent. December 10. It was announced that the peso would continue to be depreciated vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar at a rate of 1 per cent a month (buying r a t e ); du r ing Jan- uary, February, and March 1981, the peso would be depreciated in terms of the spot selling rate vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar by 2 per cent a month in relation to the rate prevailing on December 30, 1980. 47 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA (Position on December 31, 2980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Australia is the Australian Dollar.1 The exchange rate of the Australian dollar is determined by reference to a trade-weighted index of currencies. The level of the exchange rate in relation to the trade- weighted index is kept under review and is changed when assessment of all relevant economic factors indi- cates a need for movement of the rate. A middle rate for the Australian dollar in terms of the U.S. dollar (the intervention currency) is announced each day by the Reserve Bank of Australia. Official limits are set at or within which banks are to effect spot transactions with the public in U.S. dollars. On December 31, 1980 the authorities set a middle rate for the U.S. dollar of $A1 = US$1.1807 and the official limits were US$1.1831 and US$1.1783 for spot transactions. Exchange rates for other currencies are not officially posted, and banks are free to determine their own spot rates for all other currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The trading banks, in conjunction with the Reserve Bank, provide forward exchange cover to residents for trade transactions and some trade-related transactions in invisibles. In respect of this facility, the Reserve Bank provides forward cover to the trading banks in U.S. dollars. In addition, there is a foreign currency hedge market in which the trading banks and some merchant banks match the currency hedge requirements of their customers at market-determined rates. Forward cover on this market can be arranged for any type of current or capital transaction and may be obtained for any currency subject to market availability. The market is restricted to Australian residents and no arbitrage is permitted between the Australian and international markets. All settlements are effected in Australian dollars. Australia formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from July 1, 1965. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is determined by the Govern- ment with the advice of the Department of the Treasury and of the Reserve Bank. The Reserve Bank admin- isters the exchange control in accordance with the Bank- ing (Foreign Exchange) Regulations under the Bank ing Act, 1959 and delegates considerable discretionary powers to the trading banks authorized to handle foreign exchange transactions. Import and export controls are imposed on certain commodities pursuant to the Cus- toms Act. These controls are administered by the relevant Ministers and Departments according to regula- tions under that Act. Prescription of Currency Where imports are invoiced in Australian dollars, payments may be made in Australian currency through the account of an overseas bank with a bank in Aus- tralia, or in any foreign cu r rency ;2 if imports are invoiced in foreign currency, payment must be made in foreign currency. Proceeds from exports may be received in Australian currency from an account of an overseas bank w i th a bank in Aus tra l ia, or in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts All credits to the accounts of nonresidents are subject to approval, which is granted in the same circumstances and subject to the same conditions as if a transfer to the country of residence of the account holder were involved. Transfers are allowed, on application, between accounts of nonresidents. However, special rules apply to over- seas banks, central banks, governments, and government agencies; basically, they may hold essential working balances and are not permitted to invest the interest. The balance on an account held by any nonresident may be w i thd rawn in convertible currency. There are no blocked accounts. Nonresidents are generally not permitted to borrow in Australia. Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be imported without import licenses, and no restrictions are imposed on payments for imports. Payments for imports normally must be made not earlier than the date of shipment or one month before the arrival of the goods in Australia, and not later than six months a f ter the arrival of the goods in Australia; consent to longer periods is given only where it is estab- lished that longer periods are normal commercial prac- tice. Import restrictions are imposed on certain goods, although not for exchange control purposes; the restric- tions are maintained mainly for reasons of industry assistance, health, community protection, or security, or to sustain quality standards. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to exchange control, but they are not restricted. The control operates primarily to prevent unauthorized capital transfers; in addition, remittances to Vanua tu are subject to a screen- ing procedure to ensure that no tax minimization trans- actions are involved. Applications for outward transfers in connection with current invisibles are normally dealt with immediately by banks; forms do not generally have to be filled out for amounts under $A 2,000, and banks 1The Australian dollar also circulates in a number of other coun- tries, including Kiribati, Nau ru, Tuvalu, and Vanuatu. 2 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Australian dollar. 48 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution generally need not report these smaller transfers to the Reserve Bank. There is no prescribed limit on travel funds. Banks may approve for each person up to $A 4,000 for any one journey plus, for journeys of more than two months, $A 1,500 for each additional month up to a total of $A 10,000 a person; additional amounts may be approved by the exchange control authorities if they are satisfied that the exchange is to be used for bona fide travel expenses. Similarly, no specific limits are placed on remittances for fam i ly maintenance and gifts, but beyond certain amounts, applications must be referred to the exchange control authorities; such appli- cations are treated liberally. Payment to overseas suppliers of services must be made no later than six months a f ter the date when it is contractually due; consent to longer deferment is given only where it is established that longer periods are normal commercial practice. Dividends and interest due to overseas residents must be paid within one month of the date on which they become payable. Foreign exchange is not normally provided to enable residents to take out personal life insurance with foreign insurers. Travelers may take out, without special authorization, up to $A 250 in Australian currency notes plus $A 5 in Australian coin. Travelers who are not residents of Australia may take out without formality any amount in foreign currency or Australian currency instruments (other than notes) provided that they brought them into Australia. Exports and Export Proceeds Export permits or licenses are not required except in respect of goods covered by the Customs (Prohibited Exports) Regulations, Customs (Endangered Species) Regulations, and regulations administered by the Depart- ment of Primary Industry to provide quality controls over certain primary products. The obligation to account for export proceeds rests directly on the exporter. Proceeds of exports of all commodities, unless otherwise authorized, must be received in Australia in a currency and within a period approved by the Reserve Bank. The approved period is defined as being as soon as practicable af ter the date on which payment is made to the exporter, and not later than six months a f ter exportation nor earlier than one month before exporta- tion. Longer periods are allowed only where the pay- ment arrangements are in accordance with normal commercial practice. Under the Customs (Prohibited Exports) Regulations, the export of specified goods is prohibited unless per- mission to export is granted. Export permits are issued for goods or products approved for export by the appro- priate controlling authority. The regulations apply to certain raw or semiprocessed minerals, metals, fuels, and petroleum products, the fundamental objective being the protection of national interests. In particular, the controls are used, where necessary (1) to ensure that AUSTRALIA fair and reasonable market prices are obtained; (2) to ensure that adequate supplies of raw materials are avail- able to domestic indus try; (3) to meet international and strategic obligations; and (4) in relation to uranium. As a matter of policy, the Government leaves negotia- tions to the commercial interests involved and does not use its export control powers to interfere with normal commercial contracts, unless the outcome of such nego- tiations is unreasonable and against the national interest. Controls are available to facilitate the observance of Australia's obligations under international commodity agreements, to complement orderly marketing arrange- ments under Australian legislation, and to provide that domestic needs for certain agr icu l tural inputs are satis- fied ahead of export demands. There are provisions for government control over the export of defense material. Controls also exist over exports of Australian-registered ships. These controls are exercised to ensure that an adequate fleet of vessels remains available for local purposes. Proceeds from Invisibles Earnings of invisibles in foreign currencies may be disposed of only with permission. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign or domestic banknotes for travel expenditure. Capital All transfers of capital f rom Australia require approval. Lending overseas by residents is normally not permitted other than in association with direct invest- ments. Proposals for direct investment overseas are considered on a case-by-case basis. Transfers abroad for direct investment involving the export of a significant measure of Aus t ra l ian managerial or technical skills are readily approved. Approval is also readily given for all types of investment which promote Australian exports or protect existing Australian investments abroad. Approval is normally granted for the repatriation of capital by nonresidents, but no advance commitments are given. Foreign securities owned by Australian residents need not be surrendered; approval is given to residents to reinvest the sales proceeds from foreign securities for their own account in other foreign securities, but they are not normally permitted to trade among them- selves. The export of securities and certain transactions in foreign securities are subject to approval. Exchange control policy on portfolio investment over- seas provides that the annual limit for equity and real estate investments by Australian residents is $A 40,000 for individuals and $A 2.5 million for listed and sub- stantial unlisted public companies and institutions, while substantial private companies, which meet certain finan- cial standards, are eligible for an annual maximum investment of $A 250,000. Within those limits, indi- viduals may invest annually up to $A 10,000, substantial private companies up to $A 100,000, and public com- 49 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA panics and institutions up to $A 1 million in marketable fixed-interest securities with not less than one year to run to maturity on the date of purchase. Investments in banks, money market, and similar short-term deposits, as well as loans to nonresidents, are not permitted. These limits are noncumulative from year to year. How- ever, in special circumstances to allow a specific invest- ment project to be accomplished, such as the purchase of a residence overseas or a strategic holding in an overseas company or business, consideration may be given to allowing two financial years' entitlements to be taken together. When exchange control approval is being sought, investment in and other transactions of a capital nature with countries designated for tax screening purposes3 require a tax clearance certificate from the Commissioner of Taxation. Approval is required for residents to borrow Austra- lian or foreign currency from any nonresident, or to incur a liability to a nonresident other than in cases associated with the purchase of goods. In addition, residents are required to obtain approval to draw, issue, or negotiate any bill of exchange or promissory note, to enter into contracts (except for the purchase of goods) or to acknowledge debts so that actual or con- tingent rights to payments or any other valuable con- sideration or services are created in favor of any nonresident, or to allot or transfer securities to or register securities in the name of any nonresident. Guar- antees in Australian or foreign currency by or on behalf of Australian residents are authorized where the under- lying transactions conform to exchange control policy. Inward equity investment requires exchange control approval, but stockbrokers have been authorized to deal in most stock exchange securities on behalf of nonresidents. A distinction is made between exchange control obli- gations and foreign investment policy obligations. The Government's policy on foreign investment is basically one of encouragement because of the contribution for- eign investment has made, and is expected to make, to the development of Australia's industries and resources. The Government is advised on individual proposals and on foreign investment matters generally by the Foreign Investment Review Board. Certain foreign investment proposals are examined to ensure that they harmonize with Australia's interests. The foreign investment policy obligations apply to certain categories of foreign invest- ment whether or not exchange control approval is required to transfer funds into Australia to finance such investment. The examination procedures recognize the need to avoid unnecessary interference with normal commercial processes. The types of proposals subject 3 These are listed as Bahamas, Bermuda, British Channel Islands, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Gibraltar, Grenada, Hong Kong, Isle of Man, Liberia, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Nauru, Netherlands Antilles, Panama, Solomon Islands, Switzerland, Tonga, and Vanuatu. 50 to examination are proposals falling within the scope of the Foreign Takeovers Act, including any acquisition or issue of shares which would result in, or increase, a substantial foreign interest in an Australian company, even where there is no change of control (it is the prac- tice of the Government not to intervene, except in special circumstances, in proposals where the total assets of the company or business concerned are less than $A 2 million). The Government seeks to ensure that foreign invest- ment is in accord with Australia's interests by maximiz- ing the benefits and minimizing any disadvantages of such investment. Each proposal is considered on its merits to assess whether it would produce net economic benefits in relation to such matters as competition and efficiency, the introduction of new technology or mana- gerial or work force skills, improvements in the indus- trial or commercial structure of the economy, and access to new export markets. If the proposal is judged on the basis of these criteria to be not contrary to the national interest, it is considered against other criteria such as the level of Australian equity participation, management and control following implementation of the proposal, and conformity of the proposal with other government policies. There are specific guidelines concerning Australian equity participation in proposals for investment in the na tural resources sector. A proposed new project for the mining and production of u ran ium should have a minimum of 75 per cent Aus tra l ian equity and it should be Aus tra l ian controlled. Only in cases where 75 per cent Australian equity is clearly unobtainable will alternative proposals be considered. In such cases it needs to be demonstrated that 75 per cent Australian equity is unavailable, that the project would be of sig- nificant economic benefit to Australia, that there would be at least 50 per cent Australian equity, and that Aus- tralians would have the major role in determining the policy of the project. Where projects do not have 75 per cent Australian equity and control, arrangements may be required to increase the level of Australian par- ticipation over an agreed period. Other projects in the na tural resources sector are, as a general rule, only allowed to proceed provided they have a minimum of 50 per cent Australian equity with at least 50 per cent of the voting strength of the Board held by Australian interests. However, projects may be approved with less than 50 per cent Australian equity provided they are not otherwise contrary to the national interest and the Government judges that the unavailability of sufficient Australian equity capital on reasonable terms and conditions would unduly delay the development of Australia's na tural resources. In this event, the Government seeks, as appropriate, satis- fac tory arrangements for Aus tra l ian equity to be increased to at least 50 per cent within an agreed period. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution A framework and an incentive have been established for the "naturalization" of foreign-owned companies that have significant Australian shareholdings. Under the provisions, a company may be granted naturalized status (if it is at least 51 per cent Australian owned and has a majority of Australian citizens on its Board) or naturalizing status (if it has at least 25 per cent Austra- lian equity, a majority of Australian citizens on its Board, and it makes a public commitment to the Gov- ernment to increase its Australian equity to 51 per c en t ). A company wishing to naturalize is required to reach an understanding with the Government on practical arrangements for achieving 51 per cent Australian ownership. A naturalizing company is given prior credit for achieving 51 per cent Aus tra l ian ownership. Accordingly, either a na tura l iz ing company or a natural- ized company may under take new projects (other than projects involving uran ium, finance, insurance, the media, and civil aviation, where special restrictions apply) on its own, or in any combination with other companies (provided the "mix" meets the 50 per cent Australian equity and control guidelines), without first seeking approval f rom the Government. The naturaliza- tion arrangements do not affect a company's position under the provisions of the Foreign Takeovers Act. Foreign-controlled companies incorporated in Austra- lia, or operating in Australia as locally registered foreign companies, may raise f u n ds for their local requirements in the Australian capital market. Such foreign com- panies proposing to borrow locally are invited to consider alternative sources of financing, including the raising of local equity by means of new share issues or other placements.4 Gold There are no restrictions on residents owning, buying, or selling gold and gold coin in Australia. Residents may export and import gold, subject to normal exchange control and customs procedures. Australian residents may take or send out of Australia, within any period of 12 months, up to five Australian collectors' gold coins (1980 issue) as a gift to a non- resident without having to obtain exchange control authority. Persons who do not normally reside in Aus- tralia may also take or send out of the country up to five such coins in any 12-month period provided the coins are owned by them. In all other instances, author- ity is required for the taking or sending of the coins out of Australia. Changes during 1980 January 1. The "threshold" price above which foot- wear becomes exempt from import licensing was raised from $A 25 to $A 26 a pair. 4 More details of Australia's fore ign investment policy are contained in a government document Your Investment in Australia—A Guide For Investors, 1981. AUSTRALIA January 2. Certain specialized footwear fa l l ing under four tariff headings were exempted from the 12.5 per cent special additional customs duty introduced in August 1978, thus reducing the applicable tar iffs to a total of 34 per cent. January 6. Quota allocations for certain textiles and clothing for the period March-August 1980 were announced; compared with the previous period; 15 quota categories were increased, 21 were left unchanged, and 7 were reduced. January 16. Tar iffs on imports of tractors having a power of less than 15 kilowatts and pedestrian-operated rotary cu l t iva tors were increased from 22.5 per cent to 25 per cent, while the rate for other rotary cultivators not exceeding 15 kilowatts was reduced f rom 22.5 per cent to 15 per cent. January 16. Ta r i f fs on imports of baby carriages and parts thereof were reduced f rom 28 per cent to 25 per cent, to be fu r ther phased down to 20 per cent a f ter two years. March 7. Ta r i f fs on rubber products were restricted to provide a long-term rate of 25 per cent. Tariffs on gaskets and similar joints, thread and cord, and certain hygienic and pharmaceu t ical articles would be phased f rom va ry ing rates to 25 per cent within two years. March 20. It was announced that primage du ty would be removed f rom 87 ta r i ff classifications. On a further 28 items the equivalent of primage duty would be incorporated in other customs duties applicable to these items. March 21. Ta r i f fs on den tal cement and fillings were raised f rom free to 15 per cent; a reduction to 10 per cent was p lanned to be effected a f ter one year. April 1. The amounts and categories of portfolio investment overseas that may be undertaken by Aus- t ra l ian residents were modified. The annual limit for equ i ty and real estate investments was set at $A 40,000 for individuals and $A 2.5 million for listed and substan- tial unlisted public companies and institutions, while substantial private companies, which meet certain finan- cial s tandards, are eligible for an annual maximum investment of $A 250,000. Within the new limits, individuals may now invest annually up to $A 10,000, substantial private companies up to $A 100,000, and public companies and institutions up to $A 1 million in marketable fixed-interest securities with not less than one year to run to ma tu r i ty on the date of purchase. Investments in banks, money market, and similar short- term deposits, as well as loans to nonresidents, would continue to be not permitted. The new limits were noncumulative from year to year. However, in special circumstances to allow a specific investment project to be accomplished, such as the purchase of a residence overseas or a strategic holding in an overseas company or business, consideration may be given to allowing two financial years' entitlements to be taken together. 51 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA April 1. The export of sorghum to the U.S.S.R. was banned. April 2. Exchange and trade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe (formerly Rhodesia) were lifted. April 16. It was announced that with effect from July 1, 1981 all remaining preferential tar iffs on imports f rom the United Kingdom would be removed. April 21. Permissible imports of double-edged razor blades were increased to 20 million units a year, from an annual level of 16 million units dur ing the preceding two years. April 30. Import licensing was lifted on certain uncoated hot-rolled steel sheets and plates, certain uncoated cold-rolled steel sheets and plates, and certain galvanized steel, plates, strips, and hoops. May 23. It was announced that Australia would adopt the Customs Valuation Code of the Multilateral Trade Negotiations as from July 1, 1981. July 1. A special quota for the year ending June 30, 1981 was established for handicraft knitwear, amounting to 85 per cent of such imports in the 12 months ending March 31, 1980. (Imports in excess of this level would be subject to the global quota system for textiles and clothing.) July 20. It was announced that new statistical arrange- ments had been introduced to replace previous arrange- ments under which the Australian trading banks were required to establish that any necessary exchange control authority for large inward capital flows had been given before converting foreign exchange into Australian cur- rency. However, authority was still required before agreements were entered into to borrow from nonresi- dents and before any shares in Australian companies were allotted, issued, or transferred to any nonresident. Foreign investment policy was also unaffected, and tax-clearance certificates continued to be required where applicable. August 15. The Government announced new assis- tance arrangements for the textile clothing and footwear industries f rom January 1982. August 28. It was announced by the Government that orders would be accepted f rom September 1 for the 1980 $A 200 collectors' proof and uncirculated gold coins. September 10. Australian residents were allowed to take or send out of Australia within any period of 12 months, up to five Australian collectors' gold coins (1980 issue) as a gift to a nonresident without having to obtain exchange control authority. Persons who do not normally reside in Australia may also take or send out of the country up to five such coins in any 12-month period provided the coins were owned by them. In all other instances, authority was required for the taking or sending of the coins out of Australia. December 3. Import quotas on passenger vehicles for 1981 were reduced to 88,000 from 90,970 in 1980. 52 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA (Position on January 1,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Aus t r ia is the Au s t r i an Schilling. Without assuming any fo rmal obligations in this respect, the authorities aim at m a in t a in ing a stable relation w i th the currencies par t ic ipa t ing in the European Monetary System (EMS ). Forward p rem iums and d iscoun ts are, in principle, left to the interplay of ma rket forces. On December 31, 1980 the au thor ized banks' buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were S 13.759 and S 13.859, respectively, per US$1. There are no exchange taxes or subsidies. Austria f o rm a l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from Augu st 1, 1962. Administration of Control The A u s t r i an Na t ional Bank adm in is te rs exchange control and issues exchange licenses where required. Most exchange transactions are effec ted th rough Aus t r ian banks authorized to implement the exchange control regulations. The customs au tho r i t ies issue f ree ly and w i thout delay licenses required for impor ts of liberalized goods. Licenses, if requ ired, for other imports and for exports have to be ob ta ined f rom the relevant m in i s t ry, viz., the Federal Ministry of Trade, Commerce, and Industry (Licensing O f f ice) or the Federal M in i s t ry of Agricul- ture and Forestry. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all coun tr ies may be made either in convertible currencies or th rough Free Schilling Accounts. The exchange control regu la t ions generally are based on the d is t inc t ion between "mu l t i la teral mem- ber countries" ( IMF or OECD members w i th which settlements take place in convertible currencies) and "multilateral nonmember countries" (o ther countries with which settlements are made in convertible currenc ies). Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident accounts in schillings: Free Schilling Accounts, Interim Accounts for nonresidents residing in member countries of the IMF or the OECD, and Blocked Accounts for non- residents residing in other countries. Free Schilling Accounts may be free ly credited with proceeds from the sale of gold coin or convertible cur- rencies by a nonresident to the Aus t r ian Na t ional Bank, or to an authorized b ank, provided that the conversion serves to make a cu r rent payment to a resident, as well as with payments permitted by the Na t ional Bank on the basis of a general or individual authorization. The accounts may be free ly debited for payments to Aus t r ian residents, who must, however, apply for individual licenses if they are to receive loans from nonresidents or if the payment serves to f inance direct investment in Austria or the purchase of real estate in Austria. Bal- ances may be free ly converted in to any foreign cur- rency. Transfers between these accounts are free. Interim Accounts and Blocked Accounts consist of funds that are due to nonresidents. General licenses perm it their use for paymen ts for m any cu r rent and some capital transactions. The t r a n s f er abroad of funds in Interim Accounts and Blocked Accounts is subject to an ind iv idual license. In most cases licenses are granted free ly if the f u n ds belong to residents of countries that are members of the IMF or the OECD. Nonresidents may also ma in ta in nonresident accounts in convertible fore ign currencies. These accounts may be debited for the same purposes as Free Schilling Accounts and are subject to the same conditions. Imports and Import Payments All commodities not included in the Annexes to the Foreign Trade Law are free of import licensing and may be imported f rom any country without quantita- tive restriction. All goods included in the Annexes require licenses but most are free of quan t i ta t ive restriction. For many goods licenses are granted by the customs, at the time of clearance, irrespective of the country they are imported from,1 Nearly all imports f rom GATT countries, their associated terri- tories, and some other countries 2 are liberalized. Aus- tria's GATT liberalization is applied worldwide, except in respect of certain textiles as defined in Article XII, Section 1, of the Arrangement Regarding International Trade in Textiles. Nonliberalized imports may be obtained under various procedures, namely, state trad- ing, global quotas, b i la teral quotas, discretionary licens- ing, and compensation ( b a r t e r ). State t rad ing covers tobacco in any form, ethyl alcohol, and salt. Global quotas apply to specified imports f rom GATT coun- tries. Discretionary ind iv idual licensing is applicable to all other private imports not covered by the procedures 1 Goods liberalized for import f r om a given group of countries may be f ree ly impor ted f r om any c o u n t ry in the group, prov ided that the coun try of exportation and the coun t ry of produc t ion of the goods involved are in the same group. 2 The fu ll list is as fo l lows: A lge r ia, A rg en t in a, Au s t r a l i a, B ah r a in, Bangladesh, Barbados, Be lg ium, Benin, Bo tswana, Brazil, Bu rma, B u r u n d i, Cameroon, Canada, Cen t ral A f r i c an Repub l ic, Chad, Chile, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Denma rk ( in c lud ing Faroe Islands and Green- l a n d ), Dominican Repub l ic, Ecuado r, Egypt, Equa to r ial Gu inea, Fiji, F in land, France, Gabon, The Gamb ia, Federal Repub l ic of Ge rmany, Ghana, Greece, Guy an a, Haiti, Iceland, Ind ia, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, I ta ly, Ivory Coast, Jama ica, Democratic Kampuchea, Kenya, Korea, Kuw a i t, Lesotho, Luxembou rg, Madagasca r, Ma law i, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Ma l ta, M a u r i t a n i a, M a u r i t i u s, Ne the r lands, New Zea land, N icaragua, N ige r, N iger ia, Norway, Pak is tan, Peru, Portu- gal, Q a ta r, Rw and a, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sou'.h A f r ica, Spain, Sri Lanka, Swaz i land, Sweden, Switzerland, Tanzania, Togo, Tonga, Tr in idad and Tobago, Tun is ia, Tu rk ey, Ug and a, U.S.S.R., Un i ted Kingdom, Un i ted States, Upper Volta, U rugu ay, People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. 53 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA listed above, inc lud ing imports of cer ta in textiles f rom specified countries. Licenses are usua l ly gran ted if the imports concerned do not adversely affect domestic industries. Import licenses may not be granted for goods imported under compensation transactions, unless there is no other way of se t t l ing paymen t; at present, t rade under such arrangemen ts is negligible. Grains, m i lk and butter, and cattle, pigs, sheep, goats, and horses for slaughter and products f rom these an ima ls for human consumption are imported in accordance w i th a special system of controls and regulations m a in t a in ed under the Agr icu l tural Ma rke t ing Law and the law govern ing livestock f a rm ing and t rad ing, and the ma rke t ing of livestock produce (Viehwirtschaftsgesetz). Certain agricultural products are subject to impo rt levies. In some cases, import licenses are issued only to impor ters who have received export cer t if ica tes. Import licenses are not t rans fe rab le and are va l id for six months, but this period may be ex tended. Payments for imports f rom, and o r ig ina t ing in, coun tr ies with which Aus tr ia makes settlements in convertible curren- cies do not requ i re exchange licenses. Payments for Invisibles With few exceptions, residents are p e rm i t t ed to con- clude t ran sac t ions invo lv ing cu r rent inv is ib les w i th residents of coun tr ies that are members of the IMF or the OECD. Exceptions comprise ce r ta in t ransac t ions conce rn ing t ranspo rt and insurance. Most t ran sac t ions in current invisibles that involve paymen ts to residents of other coun tr ies (e.g., f re igh t, commissions, and the cost of assembly and repa i r s) are covered by general licenses; for the r em a i n i ng t ransac t ions, ind iv idu al licenses are required. Payments on account of gene ra l ly au tho r ized invisi- bles to nonres iden ts may be made freely, provided that no capital t r a n s f er is involved. O ther paymen ts abroad up to S 2,000 may be made free ly and at any t ime. The rema in ing paymen ts on account of invisibles to "multi- lateral nonmember countries" requ i re special licenses. Residents t rave l ing to countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies may buy exchange f rom au tho r ized banks or may ob ta in, as short-term advances f rom nonres iden ts in mu l t i la teral countries, up to the equ iva lent of S 26,000 for each trip. Should a resident requ i re more fo re ign exchange for t rave l ing, add i t ional amoun ts may be au thor ized by the National Bank. In add i t ion, Austrian residents may arrange for t r ips abroad th rough travel agents and pay in schillings to cover expenditures for accommodation and food, as well as transpor ta t ion. Persons leaving Austria may take w i th them S 15,000 in Aus t r ian notes and coin and any amount in foreign notes and coin. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses for exports regulated under the Foreign Trade Law have to be obtained f rom the relevant 54 ministry or, at the time of clearance, from the customs authorities. Goods exported under compensation arrangemen ts are subject to licensing by the Federal Ministry of Trade, Commerce, and Indus t ry. For most other exports, licenses are not requ ired. Export licenses are issued with due consideration for the provisions of relevant bilateral trade agreements and the fu l f i l lment of quotas established in accordance with such agree- ments, and for the needs of the Aus tr ian economy. Export claims exceeding the equivalent of S 50,000 must be declared. Export proceeds may either be sur- rendered or be deposited in accounts w i th authorized banks. Such deposits in convertible currencies may be used freely for authorized paymen ts abroad. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles mu st be declared within eight days f rom the date of collection. They may e i ther be surrendered or be deposited w i th an authorized bank and subsequen t ly are used in the same way as proceeds accruing f rom exports. Persons enter- ing Austria may b r ing in Aus tr ian or fo re ign banknotes and coin without l im i t. Capital Some inward cap i tal transfers, some transactions that could lead to such inflows, and some private sector borrowing f rom nonres iden ts are at present restricted. The acquisition by nonresidents of Aus tr ian securities f rom authorized banks is permitted freely, but the acqu is i t ion of shares or par t ic ipa t ions in Aus tr ian com- panies or firms, and of most Austrian real estate not in tended for personal use is subject to ind iv idual approval by the National Bank. Direct investments by nonresidents no rma l ly are permitted when they serve to create or m a in t a in las t ing economic relations and provided that they are financed f rom foreign currency accounts or Free Schilling Accounts, in freely con- vertible fore ign currency, or f rom prof it claims on the domestic firm concerned. Nonres ident shareholders of domestic companies may, however, in the course of increase in the jo int capital to the legal m in imum capital, acquire add i t ional interests in the ir domestic companies. Loans and credits extended by nonres iden ts to resi- dents, inc lud ing those in schillings f rom Free Schilling Accounts, at present requ ire prior approval by the Na t ional Bank and many are restricted. Approvals are gran ted generally, but not exclusively, for (1) invest- ment credits for p roduc t ive enterprises, (2) import and export finance, and (3) loans f rom nonresident relatives to residents up to S 260,000 a borrower a year (these are licensed f r e e l y ). The g ran t ing of per- mission for commercial credits with a ma tur i ty of one to five years to finance imports of consumer goods, especially passenger automobiles, is restricted; import credit with a ma tu r i ty customary in the trade concerned is licensed freely. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution The short-term foreign assets and liabilities of authorized banks in convertible currencies are not subject to limitation. The National Bank licenses finan- cial loans with maturities of more than one year to nonresidents only to the extent of funds made available through the redemption of such loans outstanding at the end of December of the previous year, plus 15 per cent. A number of authorized banks are permitted to accept convertible currencies from abroad for inter- bank on-lending abroad at maturities of up to five years. Mortgage loans, export finance credits, and loans to Austrian subsidiaries abroad are not subject to this limit. The National Bank permits the transfer abroad of (1) proceeds from the liquidation of various foreign investments in Austria (shares or participations in Austrian enterprises, Austrian securities, and real estate in Austria) and (2) repayments by residents of foreign loans and credits. The transfer of funds owned by emigrants, and pay- ments due to nonresidents on account of dowries, inheritances, and settlements under certain agreements between heirs, are permitted. Residents may freely grant loans to nonresident relatives. Residents are allowed, for purposes of direct invest- ment, to acquire participation rights in foreign com- panies, associations, and other enterprises, and to establish, acquire, or extend foreign agencies or indi- vidually owned firms; earnings accruing from such investment usually may be reinvested. Residents also are permitted to acquire real estate abroad (provided that it is intended for the personal use of the buyer within one y e a r ), to grant commercial or investment credits (provided that, in the latter case, the proceeds of the credit are used within Aus tr ia), to grant direct investment loans (provided that the resident can actually exert influence on the management of the nonresident enterprise), and to grant credits secured by mortgages in Austria or abroad. Domestic insurance companies may conclude life insurance contracts in Austria with non- residents. Transactions and operations mentioned in the three preceding paragraphs are licensed upon documentation, provided that they are concluded with residents of countries that are members of the IMF or the OECD. Residents are allowed to purchase from nonresidents, without restriction, foreign securities issued in "multi- lateral member countries" and registered on stock exchanges 3 and Austrian securities; for foreign securi- ties and Austrian external bonds, the transactions must be carried out on a spot basis through authorized banks 3 The general license does not apply to the purchase by residents from nonresidents of securities of a participating na tu re in whatever legal form (including shares) that are issued by foreign investment funds or by similar institutions of whatever kind which assemble assets for the purpose of risk spreading. Individual licenses are issued automatically when the purchase takes place on a recognized foreign stock exchange or when the issuing institution is subject to adequate surveillance. AUSTRIA and, with certain exceptions (e.g., in the case of securi- ties listed on the Vienna Stock Exchange), the securi- ties purchased must be kept with such banks. Payments for these purchases to nonresidents may be made in convertible currencies. Residents may sell foreign securities and Austrian external bonds to nonresidents only on a spot basis against payment in convertible currencies and, for securities deposited with Austrian authorized banks, only through such banks. Gold Transactions in gold (excluding jewelry and medal- lions, which are considered jewelry) are governed by the Foreign Exchange Law. The National Bank is authorized by this law to deal in gold as defined therein; the Bank has granted a number of general permissions widely liberalizing the domestic gold trade, but does not itself buy or sell gold or gold coin, except in trans- actions with monetary authorities of other countries or with international-financial institutions. The Bank has authorized credit institutions, exchange offices, and coin dealers to buy or sell in Austria gold coin that is not legal tender on their own behalf or on behalf of their customers (including nonresidents); the prices are based on those for coin and unmanufac tured gold in free markets abroad. A general license also permits other residents to purchase and sell among themselves, in Austria and against payment in schillings, gold coin that is not legal tender. The Mint releases certain types of gold coin (restrikes) to authorized credit institutions for resale to the public. It has also issued a commemorative gold coin with a face value of S 1,000, which is legal tender. Residents may hold gold in any form, including bars, in Austria, and they may acquire in Aus tr ia any gold coin that is not legal tender and any gold medals or medallions; furthermore, domestic trad ing between residents in gold with a fineness of less than 0.585 is unrestricted. With the exception of coin, medals, and gold with a fineness of less than 0.585, the acquisition from residents of gold subject to the Foreign Exchange Law is reserved for the monetary authorities, author- ized industrial users, dentists, and jewelers; the Mint, gold refiners, and jewelers are permitted to trade or exchange gold in any form among themselves. Domestic sales of gold coins that are not legal tender are subject to value-added tax at the general rate of 18 per cent. Where the Foreign Trade Law prescribes import licenses for gold imports (e.g., for gold sheets), the license is issued either by the Ministry of Trade, Com- merce, and Industry to industrial users, or by the customs office concerned, which issues licenses auto- matically for certain gold imports within its jurisdic- tion. Where this law does not require an import license (e.g., for the import of gold ba r s ), the Foreign Exchange Law prescribes a license issued by the National Bank covering the purchase of gold. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require authori- 55 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA zation by the National Bank; the Bank has issued a general license permitting nonresident travelers to take out coin that is not legal tender up to a weight of 200 grams a person a trip, and allowing resident travelers to "multilateral member countries" to export such coin up to a value of S 1,000 a person a trip. The National Bank's imports and exports do not require import, exchange, or export licenses. Commercial imports of jewelry and of articles containing a minor amount of gold, such as watches, are liberalized, licenses being issued automatically by the customs authorities; com- mercial exports of a number of such articles, however, must be licensed by the Ministry of Trade, Commerce, and Industry. Changes during 1980 January 1. The People's Republic of China and Zimbabwe were included in the list of beneficiary countries (Group I) of the Austrian GSP scheme. March 1. The licensing and payments restrictions for imports from Zimbabwe were w i thdrawn (National Bank Notification DE 1 /80). April 15. It was announced that the Aus t r ian authori- ties would intensify their hard-currency policy by let- ting inflows of capital —even when they reflected credits raised abroad —have a greater impact on the exchange rate of the schilling than outflows of capital. July 1. Austria implemented the first two stages of ta r i ff reductions under the 1979 Geneva Protocol to the GATT. As a result, GSP rates were reduced on items in about 1,900 ta r i ff categories. July 1. Import duty reductions took effect between EFTA countries and Spain as well as an agreement on trade in agricultural products between Austria and Spain. As a consequence, Spain was deleted from the list of beneficiaries (Group II) of the Austrian GSP scheme. The following changes took place at the beginning of 1981: January 1. The limit on outward payments for invisibles not subject to licensing was increased from S 1,000 to S 2,000; authorization was granted for investment credits to nonresidents provided that the proceeds were used within Austria; and authorization was granted for additional participation of nonresidents in domestic enterprises raising their capital to the legal m in imum (Na t ional Bank Notification DE 2 /80 ). 56 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHAMAS (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Bahamas is the Bahamian Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at B$l = US$1. The U.S. dollar circulates concurrently with the Bahamian dollar. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are B$ 1.0025 and B$ 1.0040, respectively, per US$1. Buying and sell- ing rates for the pound sterling are also officially quoted, the buying rate being based on the New York market mid-rate, and the selling rate 0.5 per cent above the buying rate. The Central Bank of the Bahamas deals only with commercial banks. For transactions with the public, commercial banks are authorized to charge a commission of 0.50 per cent buy ing and 0.75 per cent selling, per US$1, and 0.50 per cent buy ing or selling per «£ stg. 1. These charges are additional to the Cen- tral Bank's charges. A stamp tax of 7 cents is applied to all outward remittances where the amount is B$30 or less. A fu r ther tax of 7 cents is levied on every addi- tional B$30 or fraction thereof. There is also a market in which "investment cur- rency"1 may be negotiated between residents through an investment currency dealer at freely determined rates, usually a t trac t ing a premium over the official market rate. On December 31, 1980 the bid and offer rates reflecting this premium were 20 and 25 per cent, respectively. The Bahamas formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as f rom December 5, 1973. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank, which delegates to authorized dealers the author- ity to approve allocations of fore ign exchange for certain current payments; the approval authority for import payments, travel exchange, and cash g if ts is not delegated, except in Grand Bahama and the Family Islands. Import and export licenses are not required except for crawfish, conch, arms and ammunition, and, in certain cases, industrial gold. The Department of Agriculture and Fisheries issues export licenses for crawfish and conch, and the Police Department issues import and export licenses for arms and ammunition. Imports of industrial gold are licensed by the Central Bank. iThis is foreign currency in respect of which there is a general or specific Central Bank permission that it may be retained and used or disposed of as investment currency. Such permission may exist in respect of foreign currency accruing to residents of the Bahamas f r om the sale or redemption of foreign currency securities or the sale, liquidation, redemption, or realization of proper ty or of direct invest- ments outside the Bahamas. The use of investment currency is pre- scribed for the purchase f rom nonresidents of fore ign cu r rency securities and the making of direct investments outside the Bahamas. Prescription of Currency The Bahamas' exchange control system makes no distinction between foreign territories. Settlements with residents of foreign countries may be made in any for- eign currency2 or in Bahamian dollars through an External Account. Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may freely open Ex ternal Accounts denominated in Baham ian dollars for winter residents and for persons with residency permits but without work permits. With the prior approval of the Central Bank, authorized banks may also open External Accounts for nonresident companies that have direct investments in the Bahamas and for nonresident inves- tors. External Accounts are normally funded entirely f rom foreign currency originating outside the Bahamas, but income on registered investments may also be cred- ited to these accounts w i th the Central Bank's approval. Balances may be converted free ly into foreign currency and transferred abroad.3 Accounts which are credited with f u n ds that may not be placed at the free disposal of nonresidents are designated Blocked Accounts. These are held mainly by emigrants. Where the va lue of an emigrant's assets exceeds B$25,000, the excess is credited to a Blocked Account. Balances on Blocked Accounts are transfer- able through the official exchange market af ter four years or through the investment currency market at any time; they may also be invested, w i th the Central Bank's approval, in certain resident-held assets or be spent locally for any other purpose. Imports and Import Payments The importation of certain commodities is prohibited or controlled because of health, social, or human i tar ian reasons. All other goods may be imported without a license. The prior approval of the Central Bank is required for mak ing payments for imports, irrespective of origin;4 this approval is normally given automatically upon submission of pro forma invoices or other rele- vant documents proving the existence of a purchase contract. Import duties vary from zero to 110 per cent, depending on the type of goods. Customs entries are sub ject to a stamp tax at a rate of 1 per cent. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on current payments. Authorized dealers have been given authority to make 2 Foreign currencies comprise all currencies o ther than the Bahamian dollar. 3 Persons of foreign nationality who have been gran ted "temporary resident" status are treated in some respects as nonresidents but are not permitted to hold External Accounts. 4 Except in Grand Bahama and the Family Islands, where this author- ity is delegated to clearing bank branches. 57 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHAMAS payments to nonresidents on behalf of residents for certain services and other invisibles within specified limits. Such payments include freight, ships' disburse- ments, commissions, royalties, and insurance payments. Residents are entitled, on application to the Central Bank, to a foreign currency travel allowance of the equivalent of B$ 1,000 a person a year for tourist travel and of B$5,000 a person a year for genuine business or professional travel. The allowance of B$ 1,000 for tourist travel excludes the cost of fares and travel serv- ices, which are normally obtained against payment in Bahamian dollars to a travel agent in the Bahamas. Applications for foreign exchange in excess of these amounts must be referred to the Central Bank, which approves all bona fide applications. Foreign exchange facilities obtained for travel may not be retained abroad or be used abroad for purposes other than travel; any unused balance must be surrendered within one month of issue or, if the traveler is still abroad, within one month of his return to the Bahamas. Subject to adequate documentary evidence, an education allowance of up to B$6,000 a person an academic year is normally granted upon application. Applications for facilities in excess of this amount are referred to the Central Bank. Temporary residents may remit up to 50 per cent of their wages and salaries but where commitments out- side the Bahamas are larger than 50 per cent of wages and salaries additional amounts may be remitted. A traveler may take out of the Bahamas Bahamian notes not exceeding B$70 in value, and notes of any other territory not exceeding US$1,000 in value. Exports and Export Proceeds No export licenses are required except for crawfish, conch, and arms and ammunition. The proceeds of exports must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer as soon as the goods have reached their destina- tion or within six months of shipment; alternatively, export proceeds may be used in any manner acceptable to the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents are obliged to collect w i thout delay all amounts due to them from nonresidents and to offer the foreign currency proceeds for sale to an authorized dealer without delay, but these requirements are seldom enforced. There are no restrictions on the import of foreign banknotes. The import of domestic banknotes is subject to the approval of the Central Bank. Capital All capital transfers to countries outside the Bahamas require exchange control approval and outflows of resident-owned capital are restricted. Inward transfers do not require exchange control approval, although the subsequent utilization of the funds in the Bahamas may require authorization. The permission of the Central Bank is required in respect of any action whereby non- 58 residents acquire control of an incorporated company controlled by residents. Resident individuals and com- panies require the specific permission of the Central Bank to maintain bank accounts outside the Bahamas.5 The use of official exchange for direct investment abroad is limited to B$ 100,000 or 30 per cent of the total cost of the investment, whichever is greater, for investments from which the additional benefits expected to accrue to the balance of payments from export receipts, profits, or other earnings w i th in 18 months of the investment will at least equal the total amount of investment and will continue the rea f te r. Investments abroad that do not meet the above criteria may be financed by foreign currency borrowed on suitable terms sub jec t. to., ind iv idual approval by the Central Bank, the purchase of foreign currency in the investment currency market, or the use of retained profits of foreign subsidiary companies. Permission is not given for in- vestments which are likely to have adverse effects on the balance of payments. In principle, inward investment by nonresidents is unrestricted. However, the consent of the Central Bank is required for the issue or t rans fer of shares in a Baham ian company to a nonresident and for the transfer of control of a Baham ian company to a nonresident. Where an investment takes the form of a purchase of real property, the nonresident must obtain permission. Such permission is normally granted, provided that a fa ir price is pa id, and payment may be made either in Baham ian dollars f rom an External Account or in fore ign currency. In October 1979, the Government announced that sales would not be permitted except in cases where land is to be used for residential purposes by approved persons and for approved industrial or development purposes. Corporations designated as non- resident under the Exchange Control Regulations Act are subject to a flat annual fee of B$100. For all investments with approved s ta tus, permission is automatically given for the transfer of profits and dividends, representing earned trad ing profits and invest- ment income. In the event of a sale or liquidation, non- resident investors are permitted to repatriate the pro- ceeds, including any capital appreciation, th rough the official foreign exchange marke t. Residents require the specific approval of the Central Bank to buy property outside the Bahamas; such pur- chases, if for personal use, can be made only with invest- ment currency, and approval is limited to one property for each fam i ly. Any incidental expenses connected with the purchase of property for personal use may normally be met w i th investment currency; expenditures necessary for the ma in tenance of the property or arising directly f rom its ownership, may, with permission, be met with foreign currency bought at the cu r rent market rate in the off ic ial foreign exchange market. 5 Banks and t ru s ts established in the Bahamas are exempt f rom certain exchange control regulations, particularly w i th regard to their offshore operations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution The transfer of legacies and inheritances due to non- resident beneficiaries under wills or intestacies of per- sons who were Bahamian residents at the time of their death is permitted. However, permission is not normally given for Bahamian residents to settle any property, other than by will, for the benefit of nonresidents. A resident may make cash g if ts to nonresidents not exceeding a total of B$ 1,000 a donor each year. This amount may be exceeded, w i th permission, in special circumstances. Foreign nationals domiciled in the Bahamas, even if considered resident for exchange control purposes, may be eligible for a measure of exemption f rom certain exchange control obligations, no tab ly with respect to the manda tory deposit of fore ign currency securities and the surrender of certain o ther fore ign cap i tal assets. Nonresident buyers of Bahamian securities must pay for such purchases in Baham ian dollars f rom an External Account, in funds eligible for credit to an External Account, or in Baham ian do l lars ar is ing f rom the sale of foreign currency in the official fo re ign exchange market; interest, dividends, and capital paymen ts on such securities may not be remitted outside the Bahamas unless the holdings have been proper ly acquired by nonresidents. Baham ian residents are not permitted to purchase foreign currency securities with official exchange or out of export proceeds or other current earnings; payment must be made w i th investment currency. All purchases, sales, and switches of foreign currency securities in the Bahamas and all switches in foreign currency securities by Baham ian residents, wherever the switch takes place, require permission from the Central Bank, and all transactions must take place through authorized agents.0 All fore ign securities pur- chased by residents of the Bahamas must be held to the order of an authorized agent. Securities of other former Sterling Area countries are considered foreign currency securities, and sales proceeds of such securities held by residents, if registered at the Central Bank by Decem- ber 31, 1972, are eligible for sale in the investment cur- rency ma rke t; securities not so registered may be offered for sale at the official rate of exchange. Residents leaving the country with the intention of residing permanently outside the Bahamas are redesig- nated upon depa r tu re as nonresidents. Under normal rules persons leaving the Bahamas to take up residence elsewhere may t rans fer at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market, up to B$25,000 of their Baham ian dollar assets to the new coun t ry of residence, and may also take normal household and personal effects with them. Where the total value of their Bahamian dollar assets is over B$25,000, the excess is transferable through the official exchange market af ter four years, or through the investment currency market at any time. Af ter a person's redesignation as a non- 6 These are ten banks and trust companies and others au thor ized to deal in Bahamian and foreign currency securities and to receive securities in deposit. BAHAMAS resident, income accru ing f rom his assets rema in ing in the Bahamas is normally remittable at the current ma rket ra te in the official fore ign exchange market. Residents other than authorized banks require per- mission to borrow fore ign cu r rency f rom nonresidents, and authorized dealers are sub ject to exchange control directions with regard to the ir lend ing of fo re ign cur- rency to residents. Residents also requ i re permission to pay interest on, and to repay the p r inc ipal of, fore ign cu r rency loans by conversion of B ah am i an dollars. Where permission is gran ted for residents to accept fore ign currency loans, such perm iss ion is normally cond i t ional upon the cu r rency being o f fe red for sale w i thout delay to an authorized dea ler, unless the funds are requ ired to meet paymen ts to non res iden ts for which perm iss ion has been spec if ica l ly given. A res ident company wh ich is who l ly owned by non- residents is not no rm a l ly a l lowed to raise wo rk ing capi- tal in Baham ian do l lars un less such f u n ds are a small propor t ion of the to tal inves tmen t. If the company is pa r t ly owned by nonres iden ts, the amount of such local cu r rency bo r row ing is de te rm ined in re la t ion to the nonresident in terest in the equ i ty of the company. Banks and other lenders resident in the B ah am as require permission before they extend loans in domes t ic cur- rency to any body corporate (other than a b a n k ), which is res ident in the Bahamas and is by any means con- tro l led, whe ther d i rec t ly or ind i rec t ly, by nonresidents. However, compan ies which are set up by nonres iden ts p r im a r i ly to impo rt and d is tr ibu te p roduc ts manu- fac tu red outside the Bahamas are not no rm a l ly allowed to borrow Baham ian do l la rs f rom res iden ts either for fixed or wo rk ing cap i tal but must p rov ide all their finance in fore ign cu r rency; borrow ings in a fo re ign cur- rency no rm a l ly are pe rm i t ted on app l ica t ion. Gold Residents of the Bahamas other than authorized dealers are not permitted to hold or deal in gold bullion. Those residents, however, who are known users of gold for industrial purposes may, w i th the approval of the Central Bank, meet their cu r rent indus t r ial require- ments. Import licenses are freely issued by the Cen tral Bank to indus tr ial users. Authorized dealers are not required to obtain licenses for bu l l ion or coin. Com- mercial imports of gold jewelry do not require a license. There is no import du ty on gold bu l l ion or gold coin; however, an import duty of 30 per cent is imposed on imports of gold jewelry f rom all sources. A 7.5 per cent stamp tax payable to the customs is also levied on gold jewelry f rom any source. There is no res tr ic t ion on the acquisition or retention by residents of gold coin. The Bahamas has issued commemorative gold coins in denominations of B$10, B$20, B$50, B$100, B$150, $B200, and B$2,500; these are legal tender but do not circulate. On the occasion of the fifth ann iversary of Independence, the Bahamas issued commemora t ive coins of B$10 in silver and B$100 in gold, and to 59 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHAMAS commemorate the two hundred and f if t ie th anniversary of Parliament, commemorative coins of B$25 in silver and B$250 in gold. Changes during 1980 April 18. Exchange and trade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe (formerly Rhodesia) were lifted, in accordance with the position adopted by the United Nations-upon Zimbabwe's independence. August 15. The buying rate for the U.S. dollar was changed f rom B$1.00 = US$1 to B$ 1.0025 = US$1. September 11. The selling rate for the U.S. dollar was changed from B$ 1.005 = US$1 to B$ 1.0040 = US$1. September 15. A new business licensing law took effect, which imposed a fee on resident and nonresident companies. The new measure provided that a company designated as nonresident under the Exchange Control Regulations Act would be assessed a flat fee of B$100 annually. 60 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHRAIN (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bahrain is the Bahra in Dinar, which is pegged to the SDR at BD 0.476190 = SDR 1. Bahrain confines exchange rates for the Bahrain dinar within margins of plus or minus 7.25 per cent, in terms of the fixed relationship between the Bahra in d inar and the SDR. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency. The middle rate of the Bahra in d inar for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Bahrain Monetary Agency is adjusted from time to time. The Mone tary Agency also quotes daily rates for pounds sterling and deutsche mark based on the latest available rates for the U.S. dollar against those currencies. On December 31, 1980 the Monetary Agency's buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were BD 0.37500 and BD 0.37700, respectively, per US$1. The Mone tary Agency does not deal with the public. In their dealings w i th the public, commercial banks are required to use the Agency's rates for U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, and deutsche mark, but they are authorized to charge an exchange commission of 2 per mill (special rates of commission apply for transactions up to BD 1,000). The banks' rates for other currencies are based on the Monetary Agency's rates for the U.S. dollar and the New York market rate for the currency concerned against the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Bahrain formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from March 20, 1973. Administration of Control The Monetary Agency is the exchange control au thor- ity, but there is no exchange control legislation in Bahrain. No import or export licenses are required (except for arms and ammun i t ion, television cameras, and alcoholic beverages). However, importers and exporters must be registered w i th the commercial registry maintained by the Ministry of Commerce and Agriculture and must be members of the Bahra in Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel are prohibited. Other- wise, no requirements are imposed on exchange pay- ments or receipts. Nonresident Accounts A distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Offshore banking un i ts are not normally permitted to hold resi- dent accounts. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Israel are p roh ib i ted, as are prod- ucts manu fac tu red by fo re ign compan ies that have been blacklisted by the A rab League. Imports of a few commodities are p roh ib i ted f rom all sources for reasons of health, public policy, or secu r i ty. Imports of cul- tured pearls also are p roh ib i ted. Import licenses are required only for arms and ammun i t ion, television cameras, and alcoholic beverages. Rice and sugar are, in practice, imported only by the B a h r a in Import- Export Company. Exchange for paymen ts in respect of permitted imports may be ob ta ined f ree ly. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel are p roh ib i ted, and exports of certain refined pe tro leum p roduc ts to South A f r ica have been suspended. Otherwise, all commodities may be exported f ree ly. There are no requ i remen ts attached to receipts f r om exports or re-expor ts; the proceeds need not be repa tr ia ted or surrendered, and they may be disposed of f ree ly, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds f rom inv is ib les are not restricted, except t h at payments must not be made to or received f rom Israel. Travelers may b r ing in or take out of Bahrain any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. Capital No exchange control requ iremen ts are imposed on capital receipts or paymen ts by residents or nonresi- dents, but payments may not be made to or received from Israel. Profits f rom fore ign inves tmen ts in Bah- rain may be t rans fe r red abroad free ly w i th the excep- tion that under Article 72 of the Mone ta ry Agency Law the banks are subject to special rules regard ing the payment of dividends and the rem i t tance of the ir profits. Licensed offshore b ank ing un i ts may freely engage in transactions with nonresidents; transac t ions with resi- dents are not norma l ly permitted. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm are f ree ly perm i t ted and do not require a license. Impor ts of gold jewe lry are subject to a 10 per cent customs du ty but gold ingots are exempt. Changes during 1980 July 3. Exchange and trade restrictions app ly ing to Zimbabwe ( fo rme r ly Rhodesia) were lifted. 61 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bangladesh is the Bangladesh Taka, The value of the taka in terms of the pound sterling, the intervention currency, is determined on the basis of a weighted basket of currencies. Changes in the exchange rate for the pound sterling are generally made when fluctuations in the exchange rates between the pound sterling and the currencies in the basket exceed 1 per cent in either direction. »On December 31, 1980 the middle rate of the official buying and selling rates (spot) was Tk 38.9200 = <£ stg. 1. On December 31, 1980 the spot buying and selling rates of the Bangladesh Bank (the central bank) for authorized dealers were Tk 38.8700 and Tk 38.9700, respectively, per £ stg. 1. On the same date the spot buying and selling rates (tele- graphic transfers) of authorized dealers were Tk 38.8388 and Tk 39.0013, respectively, per £ stg. 1. Exchange rates for currencies other than sterling are based on the London market rates for the currencies concerned. A different effective exchange rate arises through the operation of the Wage Earners' Scheme, under which foreign exchange earnings remitted by workers abroad may be used for specified imports or for expenditure on foreign travel. On December 31, 1980 this rate was Tk 19.30 per US$1 and Tk 45.50 = <£ stg. 1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Forward transactions of the Bangladesh Bank are confined to purchases of deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars and sales of pounds sterling and U.S. dollars. Forward facilities at author- ized banks are available in all approved foreign curren- cies for export proceeds and for import payments, as well as for remittances of surplus collection of foreign shipping companies and foreign airlines. Forward trans- actions cover up to a maximum period of six months. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bangladesh Bank in accordance with general policy formu la ted in consultation with the Ministry of Finance. The seven foreign and six domestic commercial banks and four specialized financial institutions have been appointed authorized dealers (authorized b ank s) in foreign ex- change. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports of the M in is try of Commerce (Foreign Trade Division) is responsible for the issuance of import licenses. Certain trade transactions are conducted through state trading agencies, including the Trading Corporation of Bangladesh (TCB). Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries are subject to exchange control. Settlements with countries with which Ban- 62 gladesh has bilateral payments (or commodity exchange) agreements1 normally must be effected through clearing accounts specified in the agreements. Payments to, and receipts from, the other member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (Bu rma, India, Iran, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka) in respect of current transactions (other than those relating to petroleum and natural gas and their products) must be effected in Asian monetary units through the Clearing Union.2 As regards other countries, settlements norma l ly take place in sterling and other convertible currencies or through Nonresident Taka Accounts. Payments for imports may be made to the country of or ig in of the goods or to any other country (with the exception of those countries f rom which importation is p roh ib i t ed ); they may be made (1) in takas for credit to a nonresident bank account in Bangladesh of the country concerned; (2) in the cur- rency of the country concerned; or ( 3) in any freely convertible currency. Export proceeds must be received in freely convertible foreign exchange or in takas from a Nonresident Taka Account of a bank abroad. All settlements with Israel, South A f r ica, and Taiwan are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of individuals, firms, or companies resident in countries outside Bangladesh are designated Nonresident Accounts. All such accounts are regarded for exchange control purposes as accounts related to the country in which the account holder is permanently residing.3 Nonresident Accounts may be opened only with the prior approval of the Bangladesh Bank. Speci- fied debits and credits to Nonresident Accounts may be made by authorized dealers without the prior approval of the Bangladesh Bank during the absence of the account holder from Bangladesh. Certain other debits and credits may be made without the prior approval of the Bangladesh Bank but are subject to reporting ex post. All diplomatic missions operating in Bangladesh, their diplomatic officers, home-based members of the mission staffs, international nonprofit human i tar ian organizations functioning in Bangladesh and their expa- triate employees, foreign oil companies engaged in oil exploratory work, foreign contractors and consultants engaged in specific projects, and foreign nationals resid- ing in Bangladesh regardless of their status are allowed to maintain Convertible Taka Accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with receipts of inward remit- 1 Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hunga ry, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Poland, Romania, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. 2 The Bangladesh Bank announces exchange rates between the Asian Clearing Union and the member countries' currencies twice a month. 3 The accounts of the United Nations and its agencies are treated as resident accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tances in convertible foreign exchange and may be debited freely and at any time for remittances abroad in convertible currencies and for transfers to Noncon- vertible Taka Accounts. Transfers between Convertible Taka Accounts are freely permitted. Under the Wage Earners' Scheme, Bangladesh nationals and persons of Bangladesh origin who are working abroad are permitted to open Foreign Currency Accounts denominated in pounds sterling or U.S. dollars. These accounts may be credited with (1) remittances in convertible currencies received from abroad through normal bank ing channels and postal channels; (2) pro- ceeds of convertible currencies (currency notes, travelers checks, draf ts, etc.) brought into Bangladesh by the account holder while on a temporary visit to Bangla- desh, provided they were declared to the customs upon arrival in Bangladesh; and (3) transfers from other Foreign Currency Accounts opened under the Wage Earners' Scheme. The accounts may be debited, with- out restriction, but subject to reporting to the Bangla- desh Bank, for the following purposes: (1) all local disbursements; (2) transfers to other Foreign Currency Accounts opened under the Wage Earners' Scheme; (3) payment for imports of specified goods against letters of credit; (4) payment of bank commissions and other bank charges connected with the handling of the accounts; and (5) travel expenditures abroad for busi- ness or private purposes up to the equivalent of £ stg. 100 a year for each country for travel to Burma, India, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka and up to the equivalent of £, stg. 300 a trip for travel to other countries. Imports and Import Payments Imports are financed either from Bangladesh's own resources or with foreign aid, loans, and barter arrange- ments. Imports financed from Bangladesh's own resources are licensed within the framework of an annual import policy (import budget). Under the import policy for the fiscal year 1980/81 (July to June), items that may be imported were classified into four broad categories: (1) goods imported by "com- mercial importers"; (2) raw materials and packing materials imported by "industrial units" recognized as such under an entitlement system; (3) items imported exclusively by the TCB and /or jointly by the TCB, other approved agencies, and private sector importers; and (4) items imported under the Wage Earners' Scheme against payment from Foreign Currency Accounts. All imports require licenses or approval on letter of credit authorization forms. Single country licenses or letter of credit authorization forms are issued for imports under bilateral trade or payments arrangements and for tied aid imports. Other import licenses and letter of credit authorization forms are valid worldwide, except that imports from Israel, South Africa, and Tai- wan are prohibited. Licenses and letter of credit authori- BANGLADESH zation forms issued to importers generally remain valid for shipment for 6 months from the date of opening of letters of credit, if the letter of credit is established within the period specified by the licensing authority. Licenses and letter of credit authorization forms issued for imports of machinery and spare parts requiring fabrication, however, remain valid for 12 months from the date of opening of letters of credit. Licenses issued to industrial consumers are valid for 12 months. Licenses (other than those issued under the Export Performance License Scheme and the Wage Earners' Scheme) are not transferable, and when they expire, are not normally revalidated except where, owing to circumstances beyond the control of importers, the letter of credit requirement could not be met or shipping arrangements could not be made. Payment against imports is generally permissible only under cover of irrevocable letters of credit. Imports of books and periodicals, as well as drugs and medicines, up to specified limits are also permissible on a consign- ment basis. Public sector importers may, however, import on a cash against documents basis. There are limited facilities outside the import program for minor imports by specified end-users, such as hospitals and educational or technical institutions. The licensing of imports of specified raw materials and packing materials by industrial consumers is gov- erned by an entitlement system, based on the require- ments for various industries during each import program period as established by the Director-General of Indus- tries. Firms in the industrial sector are given an entitle- ment for importation of specified raw materials and packing materials, and licenses are issued on the basis of the entitlement. Separately, industrial consumers may be granted import licenses for parts and accessories of machinery. Goods imported against licenses issued to industrial consumers must be used in the indus try con- cerned and must not be sold or transferred without prior approval. Under an Export Performance License Scheme aimed at encouraging manu fac tu red exports, industries engaged in export business (other than ju te, ju te goods, or loose t e a ), or with export potential, may receive licenses in excess of their normal entitlement for the importation of their raw material requirements or other specified items, on the basis of their export performance. Licenses issued under the scheme have to be claimed within six months of the realization of the export proceeds. These licenses are transferable. Foreign exchange for licensed imports is provided automatically by authorized dealers when payments are due. Advance payments for imports require approval by the Bangladesh Bank, which normally is given only for specialized or capital goods. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles connected with authorized trade transactions generally are not restricted. Payments 63 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH for most other invisibles require prior approval and are restricted. Foreign exchange is not provided for tourist travel. Applications for foreign exchange for business travel, medical treatment, and education abroad are considered on an individual basis; as a rule, for business travel the amount granted is US$50 a day, subject to a maximum of US$3,000 a calendar year for exporters whose total export earnings in the preceding year were Tk2 .5 million or above and a max imum of US$1,500 for those whose export earnings were less than Tk2 .5 million; for medical treatment the amount granted is about <£ stg. 500. A Bangladesh national proceeding abroad by air is allowed to purchase foreign exchange from a Foreign Currency Account under the Wage Earners' Scheme, subject to certain limits (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Foreign nationals working in Bangladesh must obtain approval before making remittances abroad for fam i ly mainte- nance purposes; such approval is usually granted up to 50 per cent of wages or salaries, subject to a maximum of <£ stg. 200 a month (net of tax) if the terms of employment have been approved by the Government. Nonresident travelers may take out the foreign cur- rency and travelers checks they declared on entry less the amount sold to authorized dealers or money changers; they may also, without obtaining the approval of the Bangladesh Bank, reconvert taka notes up to Tk 500 or 25 per cent of the amount converted, which- ever is smaller, into convertible foreign currencies at the time of their exit. Resident travelers may take out for- eign currency and travelers checks up to the amount of any travel allocation they have been granted. Bangla- desh nationals may take out Tk 20 in domestic cur- rency; otherwise, the export of Bangladesh currency notes and coin is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel, South Africa, and Taiwan are pro- hibited. The proceeds from exports must be received within four months of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered, but Bangladesh nationals working abroad may retain their earnings in Foreign Currency Accounts. All Bangladesh nationals who are resident in Bangladesh must surrender any foreign exchange coming into their possession, whether held in Bangladesh or abroad, to an authorized dealer within one month of the date of acquisition. Foreign nationals residing in Bangladesh continuously for more than six months are required to surrender any foreign exchange representing their earn- ings abroad in respect of business conducted in Bangla- desh or services rendered, within one month of the date of acquisition. The import of Bangladesh currency notes and coin exceeding Tk 20 is prohibited. Foreign currency travelers checks and foreign currency notes may be brought in by nonresident travelers without 64 limit, provided that the total amount brought in is declared to the customs authorities upon arrival. Capital All outward transfers of capital require approval; such approval is not normally granted in respect of resident-owned capital. Inward capital transfers also require approval. Movable and immovable assets, other than foreign exchange, owned in any country other than Bangladesh have to be declared to the Bangladesh Bank. There is no restriction on the importation of securities into Bangladesh, but the transfer of securities in favor of a person resident outside Bangladesh requires approval. This requirement applies to all Bangladesh securities, whether held by residents or not, and to all foreign securities held by residents. Authorized dealers may obtain short-term loans and overdrafts from overseas branches and correspondents for a period not exceeding seven days at a time, pro- vided that they are obtained only in the currency of the country or monetary area in which the overseas bank branch or correspondent is situated. Borrowing abroad by resident nonbank firms of Bangladesh origin is pro- hibited. Borrowing by nonresident-owned or non- resident-controlled enterprises f rom commercial banks in Bangladesh beyond specified ceilings, as well as any borrowing f rom abroad, requires approval, and loans by authorized dealers in local currency against over- seas guarantees or collateral outside Bangladesh also require approval. Authorized dealers may, however, approve loans, overdrafts, or credit facilities against goods intended for export f rom Bangladesh to com- panies controlled by persons resident outside Bangla- desh. Authorized dealers must obtain approval before making any loans in foreign currencies to residents or nonresidents, whether secured or unsecured. They are not normally permitted to hold short-term foreign assets other than small working balances. The permission of the Bangladesh Bank is required for nonresidents other than banks to establish or con- tinue a business in Bangladesh. Foreign firms with branches in Bangladesh are required to submit state- ments of their foreign exchange receipts and local expenses at the end of each calendar quarter. Foreign private investment is governed by the For- eign Private Investment (Promotion and Protection) Act of 1980 and is permitted in collaboration with both the Government and private entrepreneurs. In the private sector, however, fore ign participation is limited to those industries where technical know-how is not locally available, where the technology involved is very complicated, or where capital outlay is high, and to industries that are either based on local raw materials or that are wholly export oriented. For a new invest- ment, foreign investors generally are required to provide as equity capital the entire amount of the project's for- eign exchange component. There is no ceiling on private ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution investment, but investment above Tk 100 million needs special approval. Tax holidays are granted for periods of up to nine years, depending on location. All foreign investments require approval by the Investment Board. Dividends on foreign capital may be remitted freely after payment of taxes. Gold The import and export of gold or silver in any fo rm are prohibited without special permission, which is not normally granted. There are no restrictions on the internal sale, purchase, or possession of gold or silver ornaments (including coin) and jewelry, but there is a prohibition on the holding of gold and silver in any other form except by licensed industrialists or dentists. Changes during 1980 January 15. Exchange and trade restrictions apply- ing to Zimbabwe (formerly Rhodesia) were lifted. April 1. A new law on foreign private investment BANGLADESH entitled Foreign Private Investment (Promotion and Protection) Act, 1980 was published. May 3. Restrictions were imposed on transactions with Taiwan. July 1. Under the import program for the fiscal year 1980/81, the level of imports was established at T k 25 billion, to be financed by cash (Tk 15 billion), by commodity aid (Tk 4.25 b i l l ion), by the Wage Earners' Scheme (Tk3 .50 b i l l ion), and by barter (Tk2 .25 billion). July 29. The exchange rate of the taka vis-a-vis the pound sterling was changed to Tk 36.275 = <£ stg. 1; it was subsequently changed to Tk 38.45 = <£ stg. 1 on October 13 and to Tk 38.92 = £ stg. 1 on October 27. In connection with the exchange rate change on October 27, the margins were narrowed to 1 per cent on either side. October 3. The bilateral trade and payments agree- ment with the U.S.S.R. was extended by one year. 65 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Barbados is the Barbados Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at BDS$2 = US$1. On December 31, 1980 the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were BDS$ 1.9975 and BDS$2.0250, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, and the pound sterling are also officially quoted. These rates include commission charges of 0.1875 per cent buying and 1.375 per cent selling. On December 31, 1980 the buying and selling rates of the Central Bank of Barbados for the Canadian dollar were BDS$ 1.6766 and BDS$ 1.7029, respectively, per Can$ l; those for the deutsche mark were BDS$1.0198 and BDS$ 1.0358, respectively, per DM 1; and those for sterling were BDS$4.7670 and BDS$4.8417, respec- tively, per <£ stg. 1. Under clearing arrangements with regional monetary authorities, the Central Bank sells currencies of the Caribbean Common Market (CAR ICOM) countries1 at fixed rates ( inc lud ing a commission of 0.125 per cent) but purchases only East Caribbean and Trinidad and Tobago dollar notes. The rate applied mutually for the purchase of currency notes is the parity rate between each pair of currencies determined on the basis of the U.S. dollar rate. The Central Bank regulates the com- mission that may be charged by the commercial banks in dealings with their customers in CARICOM currencies. With specified exceptions, foreign exchange applications for nonimport transactions exceeding BDS$500 are sub- ject to a levy collected in the approval process by the Central Bank at rates rang ing f rom BDS$20 to BDS$100 for each application. Administration of Control Exchange control applies to all countries and is administered by the Central Bank. The Central Bank delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve normal import payments and the allocation of fore ign exchange for certain other current payments and for cash gifts. The exchange control system provides that foreign exchange should normally be surrendered to an authorized dealer. The normal exchange control direc- tives do not apply to transactions between residents and persons resident in South Afr ica. Trade controls are administered by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, and Consumer Affa irs. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of countries outside the CARICOM area other than South A f r ica may be made in any foreign currency,2 or through an External Account in Barbados dollars. Settlements with residents of CARICOM countries must be made either through Exter- nal Accounts (in Barbados dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned, except that com- mercial banks may issue CARICOM travelers checks denominated in Trinidad and Tobago dollars to Bar- badian residents traveling to other CARICOM countries, within the approved limits for travel allowances. Nonresident Accounts With the permission of the Central Bank, authorized dealers may maintain in foreign currencies Foreign Cur- rency Accounts in the names of residents of Barbados and of other countries. Approval for opening these accounts is given on the basis of the anticipated fre- quency of receipts and payments in foreign currency. Certain receipts and payments may be credited and debited to Foreign Currency Accounts, under the con- ditions of approval established at the time the account was opened. Other credits and debits require individual approval. External Accounts may be opened for nonresidents by authorized dealers without reference to the Central Bank. These accounts are maintained in Barbados dol- lars. They may be credited with proceeds f rom the sale of foreign currencies, with t rans fe rs f rom other External Accounts, with bank interest (payable on External Accounts or Blocked Accoun ts ), and with payments by residents for which general or specific permission has been given by the Central Bank. They may be debited for payments to residents of Barbados, for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel or business pur- poses, and for any other payments covered by delegated authority to authorized dealers. Other debits and any overdrafts require individual approval. The Exchange Control Act of 1967 (as amended) empowers the Central Bank to require certain payments in favor of nonresidents that are ineligible for t rans fer to be credited to Blocked Accounts. Balances in Blocked Accounts may not be withdrawn without approval, other than for the purchase of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments All impor ts f rom South A f r i ca are prohibited, and cer- tain imports originating in non-CARicoM countries require individual licenses. The use of import licensing requirements and quantitative restrictions are the chief tools of Barbadian external commercial policy, since tariff policy is pre-empted by CARICOM. The list of products subject to licensing is extensive. However, not all goods that are subject to import licensing are subject 1 The CARICOM countries are An t igua, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 2 Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Barbados dollar. 66 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution to quantitative restriction. Some items on the import licensing list may be freely imported throughout the year, while some others are subject to temporary restric- tion (particularly agricultural products which tend to be subject to seasonal restriction). Certain imports are pro- hibited; these include various foods tuffs and beer not produced within the CARICOM area. There is also a "Negative List" for certain garments, the importation of which is totally prohibited if the product is below a minimum c.i.f. value. Individual licenses are also required for imports of commodities that are subject to the provisions of the Oils and Fats Agreement between the Governments of Barbados, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and Trinidad and Tobago, whether the goods are being imported from CARICOM countries or f rom elsewhere. Special licensing arrangements have been made for the regulation of trade between Barbados and other CARICOM countries in 22 agricultural commodities. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence (invoices and customs warran ts) to authorized dealers. Advance payments for imports require prior approval by the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange control approval. Except for transactions involving residents of South Afr ica, payments for all commercial transactions are permitted freely when the application is supported by appropriate documentary evidence. Authority has been delegated to authorized dealers to provide basic allocations of foreign exchange for certain payments of a personal nature and for sundry payments. These include foreign travel ( for which up to BDS$ 1,500 a person a calendar year may be allocated for private travel w i th in or outside the CARICOM area and BDS$200 a day, up to BDS$4,000 a person a calendar year, for business travel within the CARICOM area and BDS$6,000 for outside the CARICOM a rea ), expenses of education abroad (BDS$5,000 a person a y e a r ), remittances of cash gifts not exceeding BDS$100 a donor a year, sub- scriptions to newspapers and magazines, income tax refunds, official payments, and life insurance premiums. Applications for additional amounts or for purposes for which there is no basic allocation are approved by the authorities, provided that no unauthorized t rans fer of capital seems to be involved. The cost of transpor ta t ion to any destination may be settled in domestic currency and is not deducted from the travel allocation. Residents traveling to any destination outside Bar- bados may take out foreign currency notes and coin up to the value of BDS$500 and Barbados notes up to BDS$100. Nonresident visitors are not permitted to take out any Barbados currency but may freely export any foreign currency they had previously brought in. BARBADOS Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Afr ica are prohibited. Specific licenses are required for the export of certain goods to any country; these include rice, cane sugar, rum, molasses, and certain other food products, sewing machines, portland cement, and petroleum products. All other goods may be exported without license. The col- lection of export proceeds is supervised by the Central Bank to ensure that proceeds in foreign currencies are surrendered within six months f rom the date of ship- ment. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds f rom invisibles must be sold to an authorized dealer. Travelers to Barbados may bring in freely notes and coin denominated in Barbados dollars or in any foreign currency. Resident travelers are required to sell their holdings of foreign currencies to an authorized dealer upon return to Barbados. Capital All outward capital transfers, including direct invest- ments by residents and the purchase by residents of for- eign currency securities and of real estate situated abroad, require exchange control approval. Certificates of title to foreign currency securities held by residents must be lodged with an authorized depository in Bar- bados, and earnings on these securities must be repa- triated and surrendered to an authorized dealer. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances due to nonresidents, require exchange control approval. Trans- fers in respect of inheritances are restricted to BDS$20,000 annually for each nonresident beneficiary, subject to the payment of estate duties. Dowries in the form of settlements, and cash g if ts may be transferred to nonresidents with exchange control approval, nor- mally up to BDS$500 a donor a year. Emigrating Bar- badian nationals are granted settling-in allowances f rom their declared assets at the rate of BDS$20,000 a fam i ly un it a year. The Central Bank also considers applica- tions from foreign na t iona ls who have resided in Bar- bados and are proceeding to take up permanent resi- dence abroad, provided that they declare their assets held in Barbados. Direct investment by nonres iden ts may be made with exchange control approval. The remittance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds f rom, such investment is permitted, subject to the submission of documen ta ry evidence as to the va l id i ty of the remittance, the dis- charge of any liabilities related to the investment, and the registration of the original investment with the Central Bank. The issuance and t r an s f er to nonresidents of securities registered in Barbados require exchange control approv- al, which is free ly given on cond i t ion that an adequate amount of foreign currency is brought in for their purchase. Proceeds f rom the realization of these securi- 67 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS ties may be remitted when it is established that the origi- nal investment was financed from foreign currency sources. Nonresidents may acquire real estate in Bar- bados for private purposes with funds f rom fore ign currency sources; local currency f inanc ing is not ordi- narily permitted. Proceeds from the realization of such investments equivalent to the amount of foreign cur- rency brought in may be repatriated freely. Capital sums realized in excess of this amount may be repatriated freely on the basis of a calculated rate of re turn on the original foreign investment, as follows: for the last five years at 8 per cent per annum; for the five years imme- diately preceding the last five years at 5 per cent; and for any period preceding the last ten years at 4 per cent. Amounts in excess of the sum so derived are restricted to the remittance of BDS$24,000 a year. The approval of the Central Bank is required for residents to borrow abroad or for nonresidents to borrow in Barbados. Authorized dealers may assume short-term liability positions in foreign currencies for the financing of approved transfers in respect of both trade and non- trade transactions. They may also freely accept deposits from nonresidents. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their domestic operations requ ires the approval of the Central Bank. Gold Gold coins with face values of BDS$100 and BDS$200 are legal tender and are in limited circulation. Residents who are private persons are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for num isma t ic purposes only. Otherwise, any gold acquired in Barbados must be surrendered to an authorized dealer unless exchange control approval is obtained for its re ten t ion. Residents other than the mone tary authorities, authorized dealers, and industrial users are not permitted to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewelry or coins for num is- matic purposes. Imports of gold by residents are per- mitted for industrial purposes and are subject to customs duties and charges. Licenses to import gold are issued by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, and Consumer A f fa i r s; no license is required to export gold, but exchange control permission is required to do so. Changes during 1980 February 15. Plastic bags and specified items of cloth- ing were placed on the list of items requiring an import license. April 15. Specified motor vehicles for commercial use were placed on the list of items requ ir ing an import license. April 18. Exchange and t rade restrictions app ly ing to Zimbabwe ( fo rm e r ly Rhodesia) were lifted. May 1. With specified exemptions ( inc lud ing pay- ments for imports, non t rade paymen ts not exceeding BDS$500, and transactions by the Government and statutory boa rds ), applications for fore ign exchange were made subject to a levy collected by the Central Bank at the time of exchange approval, at a level of about 1 per cent, i.e.: for BDS$501-1,000, BDS$20; for BDS$ 1,001-3,000, BDS$30; for BDS$3,001-4,000, BDS$40; for BDS$4,001-4,999, BDS$45; and for amoun ts exceeding BDS$4,999, 1 per cent with a maxi- mum of BDS$100. July 1. The quota on impor ts of all mo tor vehicles up to two tons and all omn ibuses and m in ibuses, regard- less of weight, was fixed at BDS$20 m i l l ion for 1980. July 2. Shrimp ( f resh, chilled, or f rozen) was placed on the list of items requiring an import license. July 28. Au thor ized dealers were empowered to approve, w i thout reference to the Cen tral Bank, applica- tions for foreign exchange rem i t tances of cash g i f ts not exceeding BDS$100 a donor a year, and of cer ta in other payments up to specified limits. August 1. W i th in specified l im i ts, au tho r i ty was dele- gated to authorized dealers to sell fore ign exchange to residents for travel abroad, as fo l lows: for p r iva te travel w i th in or outside the CARICOM area, BDS$ 1,500 a per- son a calendar year and for business trave l, BDS$200 a day up to a max imum of BDS$4,000 a person a ca lendar year for des t ina t ions w i th in the CARICOM area and BDS$200 a day up to a m ax imum of BDS$6,000 a per- son a calendar year for de s t ina t ions outside the CARICOM area. August 2. Maize (co rn) and soybeans were placed on the list of items requ i r ing an import license. 68 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Belgium is the Belgian Franc. The currency of Luxembourg is the Luxembourg Franc, which, in accordance with a Luxembourg decree, is at par with the Belgian franc. Luxembourg is linked to Belgium in a monetary association. Belgium and Luxem- bourg participate with Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Italy, and the Nether- lands in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS ). In accord- ance with this agreement, Belgium and Luxembourg maintain the spot exchange rates between the Belgian franc and the Luxembourg f ranc and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 2.25 per cent (in the case of the Italian lira, 6 per cen t) above or below the bilateral central rates. The agreement implies that the National Bank of Belgium stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amoun ts at specified in terven t ion rates. On December 31, 1980 these rates were as follows: _ t . _ Belgian Francs or Luxembourg Francs Specified In terven t ion Rates Per: Upper limit Lower limit 100 Danish kroner 526.90 503.75 100 French f rancs 696.00 665.375 100 deutsche mark 1,639.55 1,567.40 1 Ir ish pound 60.9020 58.2225 1,000 Italian lire 36.490 32.365 100 Netherlands guilders 1,483.25 1,418.00 The participants in the EMS are not m a i n t a i n i ng exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper fun c t ion ing of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the intervention cur- rencies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. In Belgium-Luxembourg there are two spot exchange markets, the official (reglemente or regulated) market and the free marke t, which are separated; fo re ign cur- rency acquired in one market may not be sold in the other. Most current transactions are settled in the official ma rke t: only authorized banks may carry out exchange transactions permitted in that marke t. Most capital transac t ions take place in the free ma rke t. In a few cases, however, there is freedom of choice as to the exchange market in which conversion is to be e f fec ted. In the official market most convertible currencies are dealt.1 However, although Za i r ian currency (the za i re) 1 Currenc ies dealt in the o f f ic ial m a r k et are Au s t r a l i an dollars, Aus- trian schillings, Canad ian dollars, Danish k ron e r, deu tsche m a r k, Fin- nish m a rkk a a, French f r an c s, Irish pounds, I ta l ian l i re, Japanese yen, Netherlands gu i lde r s, No rweg ian k rone r, Po r tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Sou th A f r i c an rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish k r o n e r, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. The Aus t ra l ian dollar and the South A f r i c an rand are not off ic ia l ly quo ted. is officially quoted, the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union (BLEU) does not permit the use of the za ire in settlements with countries other than Zaire, or the exchange of the za i re for convertible Belgian francs or other convertible currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fo re ign exchange. Nonbank residents may not acquire or surrender con- vertible currencies in the official spot ma rket un t il a foreign payment is due. Nonbank residents may make fo rwa rd purchases and sales of convertible currencies in the o f f ic ial m a rk et t h r o u gh au thor ized banks, pro- vided that any fo re ign cu r rency purchased is used for the authorized se t t lement of obligations w i th in 15 work- ing days f rom de l ive ry (on the delivery da te itself if the m a t u r i ty of the f o rw a rd con tract is less th an 15 d a y s ); exchange not used w i th in that period must be resold in the off ic ial ma rke t. Profits resulting f rom forward contracts not used to cover au thor ized inwa rd or outward payments th rough the official ma rket must be surrendered to the Treasury. On December 31, 1980 the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in the official market were BF 31.4475 and BF 31.5975, respectively, per US$1. In the free exchange ma rke t, all currencies ( inc lud- ing domestic and fo re ign bankno te s) may be bought and sold at freely fluctuating rates. On December 31, 1980 the free ma rket rates between banks for the U.S. dollar were BF 31.52 buy ing and BF 31.67 selling, per US$1. Any resident or nonres iden t, in c lud ing banks, may deal in the free market. Forward t ransac t ions, whe ther by banks or nonbank s, are uncon t ro l led and do not require a permitted unde r ly ing t ransac t ion. There is norma l ly no in te rven t ion in fo rwa rd exchange in e i ther exchange market. Belgium and Luxembourg f o rm a l ly accepted the ob l iga t ions of A r t i c le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f r om Feb rua ry 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory There is no exchange control between Belgium and Luxembourg; the two countries cons t i tu te a single exchange control territory in relation to other coun t r ies. Administration of Control The u l t ima te respons ib i l i ty for the adm in i s t r a t ion of exchange control in the Be lg ian-Luxembourg Economic Union is exercised by the Belgo-Luxembourg Exchange Ins t i tu te ( IBLC ). Exchange control powers for most paymen ts and t r a n s f e rs are delegated to authorized banks. The Be lgo-Luxembourg Adm in is t ra t ive Commis- sion has au thor i ty to license trade t ransac t ions; it deter- mines import and export policy, but has delegated the issuance of import and export licenses to the licensing 69 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG offices of the BLEU, one of which is located in each country. Prescription of Currency The prescription of currency requirements operate mainly to ensure that settlements with foreign countries are made through the appropriate exchange market or, where payments in Belgian or Luxembourg francs are involved, through the appropriate category of nonresi- dent account. Foreign countries are divided into two groups: the bilateral countries (comprising Burund i, Rwanda, and Zai're, although the BLEU is not a par ty to any bilateral payments agreement) and the con- vertible area (all other countries). All inward and outward transactions are classified in four groups, which may be summarized as follows: List A covers merchandise, transport expenses, indus- trial expenses (e.g., costs of processing), and other com- mercial expenses, including insurance. List B covers settlements of travel firms, salaries, pensions, fees, sub- scriptions, taxes, and public administration payments. List C covers (1) sharing in administrative expenses of central offices, by branches or affiliates; ( 2) income on securities, loans, etc., rents, and operating profits; and ( 3) repatriation of certain foreign long-term invest- ments and transfers by emigrants of foreign nationality. List D covers gifts, life insurance payments, fam i ly maintenance payments, capital investments, liquidation of investments, dealings in gold, transfers by emigrants of Belgian or Luxembourg nationality, transfers by imm igran ts, inheritances, forward covering of merchan- dise, private travel expenses (except when settled through travel agencies), and all transactions not in any of the other three lists. The permissible methods of settlement for foreign payments are as summarized in the table below. In addition to the general methods of settlement described above, individual licenses are granted in order to allow transfers through the official market for some of the transactions mentioned in List D. These cover essentially direct investment by enterprises and some capital transfers by individuals. Conversely, import and export of diamonds, including related costs, may only be paid for in foreign currencies through the free market, or in Belgian or Luxembourg francs by means of non- resident Financial Accounts, or in domestic or foreign banknotes. SUMMARY OF PERMISSIBLE METHODS OF SETTLEMENT FOR FOREIGN PAYMENTS TRANSACTION LIST COUNTRY GROUP FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE MARKET NONRESIDENT ACCOUNT IN FRANCS Convertible Convertible or Financial Financial Bilateral * A,B C D A,B,C,D A,B C D A,B C D Outward Payments Convertible Convertible Official Any Any Official or Free Free Convertible Convertible Bilateral Convertible Convertible Inward Payments Convertible Convertible Other Official Convertible Official or Free Free | Convertible j or Financial Convertible Any Free Bilateral Convertible Official Financial or Convertible Bilateral or Convertible * Bilateral Convertible Other Official or Free Free } Bilateral or j Convertible* Bilateral Any Free Bilateral or Convertible* * Bilateral Account of the coun try concerned. Settlements w i th Za i re may a l te rna t ive ly be made by debit or credit to Convertible Accounts in zaires held with banks in Zaire. 70 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution— — Payments for goods of Egyptian origin (other than rice, raw cotton, and crude petroleum) are subject to special rules. Nonresident Accounts Belgian or Luxembourg franc accounts of nonresi- dents are classified as follows: 1. Convertible Accounts. Balances on these accounts are equivalent to currencies negotiated on the official market, and accounts may be opened freely in the name of any nonresident.2 They are not related to any country or monetary area. They may be used freely for settle- ments with residents which either must or may be made through the official market and for retransfer abroad through the official market, and they may be credited freely with proceeds from the sale by a nonresident of convertible currencies in the official market to authorized banks in Belgium and Luxembourg. Balances on Con- vertible Accounts may be transferred freely to other Convertible Accounts or be converted into any currency in the official market. Advances on Convertible Accounts other than mail-credit advances are subject to authoriza- tion by the IBLC. A minimum debtor interest rate may be prescribed during certain periods for mail-credit advances in Convertible Accounts of banks, with the exception of those for developing countries. Convertible Accounts may be held in the fo rm of sight accounts (demand depos i ts), prior notice accounts, and time deposits. 2. Financial Accounts. These accounts may be opened only for residents in convertible area countries.3 They may be used freely for settlements which either must or may be made through the free market and for retransfer abroad through the free market, and they may be credited with proceeds from the sale by a non- resident of gold or any currency in the free market. Domestic banknotes and proceeds from the sale in the free market of foreign banknotes, when deposited with authorized banks by foreign travelers in Belgium and Luxembourg or by persons residing abroad, may be credited to Financial Accounts. Transfers between Financial Accounts are free. Balances on these accounts may be used to purchase gold or any currency negotiated in the free market. 3. Bilateral Accounts. These accounts may be opened for residents of bilateral countries and are related to the country of residence of the account holder. They are used for settlements with bilateral countries and may be credited with proceeds from the sale of con- 2 International organizations and foreign diplomatic representations established in the BLEU ma in ta in Special Accounts, which are equiva- lent to Convertible Accounts but are not subject to the restrictions applicable to the la t ter. Foreign employees of these o rgan iza t ions and representations may ma in ta in Special Conver t ib le Accoun ts. 3 Foreign diplomats, foreign nationals employed by diplomatic rep- resentations accredited in the BLEU and by specified in te rna t ional organizations situated in the BLEU, individuals residing in B u r u n d i, Rwanda, or Za ire, and BLEU nationals residing abroad tempo ra r i ly for professional reasons are authorized to maintain Assimilated Resi- dent Accounts. BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG vertible currencies by a nonresident in the official mar- ket. Balances on Bilateral Accounts may be transferred to other Bilateral Accounts related to the same country. Transfers may also be made freely between Bilateral Accounts related to Burundi, Rwanda, and Zaire. In practice, the authorities permit the conversion of bal- ances on Bilateral Accounts of the central banks of these three countries into foreign currencies in the official market. Imports and Import Payments Individual licenses are required for ( 1) all imports from Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hong Kong, Hungary, Japan, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam ,4 and (2) a number of imports f rom all other countries outside the BLEU.5 The com- modities for which individual licenses are required include many textile products, certain agricultural prod- ucts and foods tuffs, coal and petroleum products, and diamonds. All other commodities are free of license and quantitative restriction; the sole requirement is a form completed by the importer giving notification of the payment (payment declaration —model A), which must be presented to an authorized bank. No exchange control documentation is required for imports not exceeding BF 100,000 in value. Many commodities subject to individual licensing are also admitted without quantitative restriction. Along with other EC countries, the BLEU applies quotas on a number of textile prod- ucts from non-EC countries and on Greek wine; the BLEU also applies a system of minimum import prices to foreign steel products. Imports from non-EC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EC are subject to impo rt levies, which have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. An authorized bank is required to make certain that payment is made by one of the methods laid down in the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) and that foreign exchange is not acquired un t il the import payment is due. Exchange control approval is required for payments for imports more than three months before or six months af ter the date of customs clearance; prior exam ina t ion of supporting documents by the IBLC is requ ired for paymen ts exceeding BF 25 mil- lion and for paymen ts made more than 30 days before the date of customs clearance. However, in the latter case, prior examination is not required if payment takes place either under a documentary credit or on a documentary 4 Import licenses are issued f ree ly for a large number of commodi- ties when or ig ina t ing in and shipped f rom Bu lga r ia, Czechoslovakia, Ge rman Democratic Repub l ic, Hung a ry, Poland, Roman ia, and U.S.S.R. 5 Most imports in the la t ter group do not r equ i re an impo rt license when imported f rom the Netherlands or f rom other EC countries. 71 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG collection basis, provided that documents are submitted to the authorized bank showing that the goods have already been shipped to the BLEU. Payments for transit transactions must be made not later than three months f rom the date of any advance payment collected from the foreign buyer, and may not be made earlier than three months before the date on which such pay- ment is expected to be received. Payments for Invisibles Payments to convertible area countries for trans- actions included in Lists A and B must be made through the official exchange market or by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Convertible Account. For pay- ments exceeding BF 25 million and in other exceptional cases, prior examination of supporting documents by the IBLC is required. Payments to convertible area countries for items in List C may be made through either the official market (alternatively, by crediting Bel- gian or Luxembourg francs to a Convertible Accoun t) or the free market (alternatively, by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Financial Account, or in foreign or domestic b ankno t e s ); payments for i tems in List D must be made through the free market (alterna- tively, by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Financial Account, or in foreign or domestic bank- no tes); paymen ts to bilateral countries must be made by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Bilateral Account related to the country concerned; pay- ments to Zaire, however, may also be made in zai'res through a convertible account in Zai're. Foreign and domestic banknotes may be exported freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Individual licenses are required for specified exports to all countries outside the BLEU.6 All other exports are free of license; only a form (notice of export— model B) completed by the exporter and giving notifica- tion of the export is required. Exchange control documentation is not required for exports of less than BF 100,000 in value. The authorized bank is required to verify that export proceeds are received in accordance with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Special authoriza- tion is required to collect export proceeds more than six months after the date of exportation. Export pro- ceeds in convertible currencies must be surrendered to an authorized bank (i.e., sold in the official exchange market) within eight days of receipt or, alternatively, they may be deposited in a Controlled Resident Account in Foreign Currency with an authorized bank if they are to be used later for current payments authorized to be made in these currencies. Advance collection of export proceeds more than three months before the expected date of exportation requires prior authorization by the IBLC. Proceeds from transit transactions must be col- 6 Most exports do not requ ire an export license when exported to the Netherlands or to other EC countries. 72 lected within three months from the date of payment to the foreign supplier. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in convertible currencies from invisibles con- nected with commercial transactions (Lists A and B— see section on Prescription of Currency, above) must be surrendered (i.e., sold in the official exchange market) within eight days of receipt or, alternatively, be credited to a Controlled Resident Account in Foreign Currency with an authorized bank if they are to be used later for authorized current payments. Receipts in convertible currencies from transactions included in List C may be retained or sold in the official or the free market. Receipts from other transactions (List D) and receipts in all other currencies may be retained or sold in the free market. Proceeds from transactions included in Lists C and D may also be collected in domestic or foreign banknotes. Foreign and domestic banknotes may be imported freely. Capital All capital transactions with convertible area coun- tries may be carried out through the free market, by settlement in Belgian or Luxembourg francs through the Financial Account of a nonresident, or in domestic or foreign banknotes. Direct investments by enterprises and some capital transfers by individuals, including gifts, family maintenance payments, remittances by emigrants of Belgian or Luxembourg nationality, and inheritances, but not transactions of a financial nature, may also be made through the official market, subject to individual license. The exchange control authorities may guarantee the repatriation of approved foreign investments made in Belgium and Luxembourg. In that case, capital brought in through the official market (under special license and as an exception to the standard prescription of currency set out above) may be repatriated through that market. Also eligible for outward t rans fer through the off ic ial market are the amortization and redemption proceeds of bonds denominated in Belgian or Luxembourg francs, quoted on a stock exchange in the BLEU, and owned by residents of convertible area countries, provided that such securities have been held at least six months prior to the maturity date. All transactions in securities by residents or nonresidents are free, but the financial settlement of such transactions must conform to the general regulations for capital transactions. The prior approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for issues of securities on the Belgian capital market by nonresi- dents; most of the Belgian franc bond issues on the domestic capital market have, in practice, been made by international organizations, while issues of Eurobonds denominated in Belgian francs are not normally per- mitted. The Luxembourg authorities have, from time to time, permitted Eurobond issues denominated in Luxembourg francs. Public bids by foreign companies ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution or individuals for the purchase or exchange of shares issued by Belgian companies require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance. Outward payments for capital transactions with bilateral countries may be made only in Belgian or Luxembourg francs through Bilateral Accounts or, in the case of Zai're, in zai'res; inward payments for capital transactions with bilateral countries may be made in Belgian or Luxembourg francs through Bilateral Accounts, in any currency through the free market or, in the case of Zai're, in zai'res. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in coin or bars, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in these fo rms by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license. Settlements in respect of gold transactions with convertible area countries (other than payments for semiprocessed gold imported BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG by professional users) may be made only through the f ree market, through Financial Accounts in Belgian or Luxembourg francs, or in domestic or foreign bank- notes. No customs duties or other charges are levied on imports or exports of gold, except imports for indus- trial or handicraft purposes. Licenses are required for imports of semiprocessed gold; these are issued to pro- fessional users, who have to make payment through the official market. Transactions in monetary gold are exempt from value-added tax. Changes during 1980 July 15. In a modification of Article 5 of Regula- tion A, it was decided that a m in imum debtor interest rate may be prescribed during certain periods for mail- credit advances (in Belgian francs or Luxembourg f rancs) in Convertible Accounts of banks, with the exception of those for developing countries. 73 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Benin is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buy- ing and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French f ranc and the CFA franc. They include a bank commission. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per mill for transfers f rom countries outside the West African Monetary Union and one of 2.50 per mill for transfers to such coun- tries.2 Banks levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Union, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, Benin's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Cameroon, the Central A f r ican Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Benin itself, are considered foreign countries, but for purposes of certain capital controls, the countries specified in this paragraph are also regarded as foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of External Commerce in the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism. The Ministry of Finance, however, has the main responsibility for drawing up the exchange control regulations. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through banks, financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public, any in fo rma- tion necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be carried out by authorized intermediaries. Import licenses are issued by the Directorate of External Commerce. Exports of diamonds and other precious or semiprecious materials require prior approval in the fo rm of a decree issued by the Council of Ministers. Prescription of Currency Since Benin is an Operations Account coun try, settle- ments with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the 1 The CFA f r a nc is issued by the Banque Cen tra le des E ta ts de 1'Afr ique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common cu r rency in Ben in, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta. 2 T rans fe rs between member countries of the Un ion are subject to a flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on se t t lemen ts between agencies of the BCEAO. 74 Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mau- r i tan ia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West A f r ican Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through cor- respondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French f rancs through Foreign Accoun ts in Francs. Certain settlements with the Peo- ple's Republic of China, however, are made through special accounts.8 All settlements with South A f r ica and Zimbabwe are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French bank- notes, or banknotes issued by any other ins t i tu te of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account with the French Treasury is not perm i t ted, except for BCEAO bankno tes mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Cotonou by an authorized bank's fore ign correspondent for credit to a Foreign Account in Francs opened by the latter w i th an authorized bank. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited, w i thout prior au tho r iza t ion, w i th the value of BCEAO bankno tes mailed by author- ized in termed iar ies direct to the ir foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments All imports or ig ina t ing in or proceeding f rom South A f r ica and Zimbabwe are prohibited. Certain imports, such as narcotics, are proh ib i ted f rom all sources. The Societe de 1'Alimentation Generate du Ben in (AGB) has a monopoly over the impo r ta t ion of sugar, rice, wheat, wheat flour, condensed m i lk, alcoholic beverages, and tobacco. Certain other agencies have an import monopoly for other specified commodities. Imports of all other goods or ig ina t ing in countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely w i thout an import license. Imports of all other goods or ig ina t ing in EC countries other than France may also be made f ree ly; these goods require a license, which is issued auto- matically. Certain imports are l ibera l ized when o r ig ina t- ing in member countries of the Organ iza t ion for Eco- nomic Cooperation and Development (OECD) other than Japan and require only an import certificate made out by the importer h imse l f. Imports of non l ibera l ized commodities originating in OECD countries, all impo r ts or ig ina t ing in Japan, and all imports o r ig ina t ing in non- OECD countries are subject to licensing; they are admitted in accordance with an annual import program. Under this program, a global quota is established for imports f rom all countries outside the French Franc 3 There is an inope ra t ive p aym en ts ag r e em ent w i th Hung a ry. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Area except EC countries. Certain French textiles processed in foreign countries are licensed separately. All imports originating in foreign countries, when valued at more than CFAF 500,000, must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened, or one month before the payment is due if the commodities have already been imported. Payments for Invisibles Payments to South Afr ica and Zimbabwe are pro- hibited. Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are sub- ject to the approval of the Directorate of External Commerce, but for many types of invisibles the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Authorized banks and the Postal Administration have been empowered to make payments abroad freely on behalf of residents, up to CFAF 50,000 a t rans fe r. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the fo rm of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a trip for each person (CFAF 87,500 for children under ten) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 remaining after return to Benin must be surrendered. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a maxi- mum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. The t r an s f er of the entire net salary of a fore igner working in Benin is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the t rans fer takes place within three months of the pay period. Travelers to fore ign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries. Resident travelers to countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes, but if proceeding to a country that is not a member of the West A f r ican Monetary Union, they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may take out any unutilized fore ign banknotes and coin up to the amount declared by them on entry, subject to adjustment for amoun ts exchanged for CFA francs or obtained by exchange of foreign currency. Nonresident travelers may take out freely the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank- notes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by the BENIN Operations Account countries; a maximum amount equivalent to CFAF 25,000 in foreign banknotes; and any amount in other foreign means of payment (travelers checks, etc.) established abroad and in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa and Zimbabwe are pro- hibited. Exports to all foreign countries, including the French Franc Area, must be domiciled with an author- ized bank when valued at more than CFAF 500,000. All exports, except gold and diamonds, are free of license but require an export application visaed by the Direc- torate of External Commerce. The due date for pay- ment for exports to foreign countries may not be later than 180 days after the arrival of the commodities at their destination; irrespective of the currency of pay- ment, the proceeds must be remitted through an authorized domiciliary bank within one month of the due date. Prior authorization is required for the reten- tion, sale, import, or export of raw diamonds and of precious and semiprecious materials. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due f rom residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries f rom foreign assets, must be collected and surrendered. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank- notes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area; residents bringing in foreign banknotes and foreign currency travelers checks in excess of CFAF 5,000 must declare them to the customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized bank within eight days. Capital Transfers of capital between Benin and South Afr ica and Zimbabwe are prohibited. Capital movements between Benin and France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital t rans fe rs to all other countries requ ire exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts f rom such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward foreign direct inves tment and all outward investment in foreign coun- tries, and over the issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of fore ign securities in Benin. Such operations require pr ior authorization by the Minister of Commerce and Tourism. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a 75 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN guarantee from the Beninese Government and (2) shares that are similar to or may be substituted for securities whose issuance or sale in Benin has already been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the West African Monetary Union, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, the soliciting of funds for deposit or investment with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Benin requ ire prior authorization by the Minister of Commerce and Tourism.4 Foreign direct investments in Ben in5 must be declared to the Minister before they are made. The Minister may request the postponement of the opera- tions, within a period of two months. The fu ll or pa r t ial liquidation of either type of investment also requires declaration. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Beninese investments abroad or foreign investments in Benin, must be reported to the Minister and to the BCEAO within 20 days fol- lowing each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enter- prise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Borrowing by residents f rom nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Commerce and Tourism. The following are, however, exempt f rom this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance operations abroad, by international mer- chanting firms (approved by the M in is ter of Commerce and Tour ism) to finance trans it trade, or by any type of firm to finance imports and exports; (3) loans con- tracted by authorized banks; and (4) subject to c e r t a in cond i t ions, loans other than those men t ioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the Minister of Commerce and Tourism if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special au thor iza- 4 Inc lud ing those made t h r o u gh fore ign companies that are directly or ind i rec t ly controlled by persons in Ben in and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Ben in. 5 Inc lud ing those made by companies in Ben in that are d i rec t ly or indirectly und er f o r e i gn control and those m ade by b ranches or subsidiaries in Ben in of fo re ign companies. 76 tion. Lending abroad is subject to prior authorization by the Minister of Commerce and Tourism. The Investment Code (Ordinance No. 72-1 of Janu- ary 8, 1972) provides for preferential status that may be granted to foreign and domestic investments in industry, mining, fisheries, agriculture, and tourism, when such investments are deemed to be of value to national development. Four preferential regimes are established. Plan A is intended for medium-sized invest- ments and provides for exemption, during a period of up to 5 years, from import duties and taxes on materials necessary for the production of the proposed item, and f rom certain other taxation. Plan B, for larger projects, is granted for a maximum exemption period of 8 years and provides, in addition to the benefits of Plan A, certain other tax privileges. Plan C is intended for enterprises undertaking to invest more than CFAF 500 million and is granted for a period of up to 15 years. In addition to the benefits of Plan B, Plan C guarantees stability of tax status, free choice of suppliers, and certain other advantages. For Plans A, B, and C up to two years for installation time can be added to the period of the agreement. Plan D provides certain bene- fits for Beninese entrepreneurs investing at least CFAF 10 million. The method of application of the Investment Code is set out in Decree No. 72-7 of January 17, 1972. Gold Prior authorization in the form of a decree issued by the Council of Ministers, acting on the advice of the Minister in Charge of Mines, is required to hold, sell, import, export, or deal in, raw diamonds and precious or semiprecious materials. In practice, resi- dents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Benin. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Commerce and Tourism, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manu- factured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and ( 3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a max imum weight to be determined by an Order of the Minister. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1980 June 20. Circular No. 551 was issued, under which the requ irement for collection of export proceeds was extended to receipts in all foreign currencies, and the l im it on the collection period was reduced f rom two to one month f rom the due date. June 20. Ministerial Order No. 759 was issued, specifying the authorized banks for the purpose of foreign exchange operations and transactions between residents and nonresidents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bolivia is the Bolivian Peso. On November 30, 1979 the authorities announced the abolition of the fixed exchange rate regime for the peso and the adoption of a fluctuating exchange rate system to be administered by the Central Bank in accordance with market conditions. However, the official buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the in terven t ion currency, have since been m a in t a in ed at $b24 .51 and $b 24.53, respectively, per US$1. Buy ing and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in marke ts abroad. Sales of foreign exchange by the commercial banks and exchange houses are subject to an exchange tax of 1.6 per cent and a stamp tax of 0.2 per cent and, in addition, the selling rate is subject to a b ank ing com- mission of 0.1 per cent. Accordingly, the effective selling rate of the commercial banks and exchange houses is $b 25 per US$1. Bolivia fo rma l ly accepted the ob l iga t ions of A r t i- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Ag reemen t, as f rom June 5, 1967. Administration of Control The exchange control system is adm in is te red by the Central Bank of Bolivia. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requ iremen ts. Settlements are usually made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Payments between Bolivia and Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be made through accounts ma in ta ined w i th each other by the Central Bank of Bolivia and the central bank of the country concerned, w i th in the f ramewo rk of the multi- lateral clearing system of the La t in Ame r ican In teg ra t ion Association. Imports and Import Payments All imports by pub l ic sector agencies requ ire the p r ior authorization of the M in is try of Indus t ry and Com- merce; these agencies are not perm i t ted to impo rt com- modities th at are ava i lab le in Bolivia. Private impo r ts of certain commodities also requ ire p r ior au tho r i z a t ion; these include live cattle, va r ious food s tu f f s, specified motor vehicles, and petroleum and petroleum products. The import of goods that are produced locally is pro- hibited, in pa r t icu la r, articles of c lo th ing, detergents, and cement. Impo r ta t ion of diesel-powered vehicles 1 A rgen t ine pesos, Belgian f r a n c s, B raz i l ian cruze iros, Canad ian dol- lars, Chilean pesos, Danish k rone r, deu tsche m a r k, French f rancs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Mex ican pesos, N e t h e r l a n ds gu i lde r s, Pe ru- vian soles, pounds s te r l ing, Spanish pesetas, Swedish k rono r, and Swiss f rancs. and secondhand equ ipment is also prohibited. All other goods may be imported f ree ly. Foreign exchange to pay for impor ts may be purchased f rom commercial banks. Most fo re ign cred i ts, inc lud ing off ic ia l ly guar- anteed supp l ie rs' credits, are sub ject to au tho r iza t ion by the Na t ional Counc il for P l a n n i ng and Economy and to control by the Cen t ral Bank. Most pr iva te sector impo r ts are sub ject to an advance deposit of either 5 per cent, 10 per cent, or 25 per cent ad valorem, wh ich must be lodged 120 days p r ior to the anticipated release f rom customs. Most p r iva te sector impor ts are subject to a customs surcharge of 1 per cent ad va lorem. Most impo r ts also are subject to an "add i t ional tax," to an impo rt sur- charge of 3 per cent, and to a tax on services rendered of 1 per cent to 8 per cent. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for inv i s ib les may be made f r e e ly. Res iden ts of Bo l iv ian or fo r e ign n a t i o n a l i ty must pay a t ravel tax when leav ing the coun t ry. The tax is $b 200 for air travel to ne ighbo r ing coun t r ie s, $b 100 for overland travel to such coun tr ies, $b 450 for air travel to other Latin Ame r ican coun tr ies, and $b 600 for air travel to coun tr ies ou ts ide La t in Ame r ica. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are not no rm a l ly sub ject to l icen s ing, a l though ce r ta in expor ts may be p roh ib i ted or res tr ic ted f r om t ime to t ime ow i ng to domes t ic d em and and supp ly factors. All proceeds f rom exports of the pub l ic and p r iva te sectors mu st be sold to the Cen t ral Bank w i t h in 15 days of rece ip t, w i th the excep t ion of reasonab le amoun ts deduc ted for fo re ign exchange expend i tu res u n d e r t a k en to effect the expor t. As regards m in e r a l s, COM IBOL and the med ium -s ized m in es export the ir own p roduc t ion, and the M i n i ng Bank that of the sma ll mines of the p r iva te sector. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange der ived f rom inv i s ib les may be re ta ined or sold in the exchange ma rke t. Capital Ou twa rd cap i tal t r a n s f e rs by res iden ts or non res iden ts are free of con trol and may be made f ree ly; inwa rd capital t r a n s f e rs also may be made f ree ly, but govern- ment receipts of t r a n s f e rs and g r an ts and all proceeds of bo r row ings f rom fo r e ign pub l ic sector agencies must be su r rende red to the Cen t ral Bank. A ll fo r e ign c red i ts, inc lud ing supp l iers' cred i ts, to gove rnment agencies and au tonomous en t i t ies, and cred i ts to the pr iva te sector with official gua ran tees, are subject to p r ior au tho r iza- tion by the N a t i o n al Counc il for P l a n n i ng and Economy and to con trol by the Central Bank. Most fo re ign loans 77 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA the National Investment registered with must be Institute. Foreign investments in Bolivia, except those involv- ing petroleum and mining, are governed by the pro- visions of the Investment Law (Decree-Law No. 10045) of December 16, 1971. The law is administered by the National Investment Institute. Investments in petroleum and mining are governed by the General Hydrocarbons Law and the Mining Code. Certain foreign investments are subject to Decisions Nos. 24 and 103 of the Cartagena Agreement. Gold Imports and exports of gold and domestic trading in gold are regulated by the Central Bank. The Central Bank also purchases, for its use or for export in the form of gold bars, the total national production of gold. With- out affecting these powers of the Central Bank, the Mining Bank may purchase at home and sell abroad, in unworked form, the output of gold, silver, and platinum. The Mining Bank also sells gold, silver, and platinum on the domestic market subject to conditions that it establishes jointly with the Central Bank. The Central Bank is empowered to purchase its full require- ments of gold f rom the Mining Bank. Cooperatives and other producers must sell the gold they produce to the Central Bank. The Mining Bank is authorized to sell a specified quantity of gold annually to domestic jewelers and dentists and is obliged to sell the remainder to the Central Bank. Residents may freely purchase, retain, hold, and sell gold in any form other than bars in Bolivia. Changes during 1980 January 18. Supreme Decree No. 17184 authorized the Ministry of Finance to exempt import of goods f rom custom duties in the following cases: ( 1) those author- ized through specific dispositions; (2) those exempted in accordance with international agreements; and (3) imports made by foreign diplomats and consular staff stationed in Bolivia. However, the following mini- mum rates would apply even m those cases: ( 1) 10 per cent of the total amount exempted; (2) 1 per cent to benefit development of the Northeastern area and 2 per cent for the benefit of the development corpora- tions of Cochabamba and Beni; ( 3) 0.5 per cent of the Adm in is trac ion Autonomo de Almacenes Aduaneros (AADAA ); and (4) the tax on services rendered. February 11. Supreme Decree No. 17214 extended the tax exempt status until the end of 1980 on the import of the following products: powdered milk, con- densed milk, yerba mate, lard, unref ined vegetable oil, hydrogenated fa t, margarine and butter substitutes, and canned tuna, salmon, and sardines. March 5. Under Supreme Decree No. 17248 royal- ties and taxes on the export or domestic sale of minerals, mineral concentrates, and other products of the mining industry were replaced by a system of royalties only. 78 March 5. Supreme Decree No. 17253 prohibited the importation of light and heavy diesel-powered vehicles. March 5. Under Supreme Decree No. 17261 import taxes on certain industrial imports and final products were modified. The import of secondhand equipment and machinery was prohibited. March 11. Under Supreme Decree No. 17267 COMIBOL was exempted from the provisions of the Supreme Decree No. 17123 of November 30, 1979 which prohibited holdings of deposits or other assets in foreign currency inside or outside the country. April 21. Under Supreme Decree No. 17348 import taxes for imports of fu rn i tu re and spring mattresses for medical purposes were eliminated, with the exception of ad valorem duties. April 25. Under Supreme Decree No. 17356, by way of an exception, the customs office was authorized to release machines and raw materials imported by indus- trial enterprises that had no outstanding debt with the customs office. May 16. The existing system of prohibition and prior licensing of the import of automobiles was lifted. May 19. Under Law No. 527, Supreme Decree No. 16640 of June 28, 1979, which provided for an addi- tional 2 per cent ad valorem tax on imports on the customs list, became law. May 20. Supreme Decree No. 17413 exempted the impor ta t ion of asphalt f rom customs tar iffs. May 25. Under Supreme Decree No. 17418, Arti- cles 2, 3, and 4, of Supreme Decree No. 17253 of May 1980 were modified, as follows: (1) Article 2—the Ministry of Industry would send each request for the importation of diesel equipment to the Ministry of Energy and Hydrocarbons to analyze the possibility of impor t ing substitutes that run on liquefied petroleum gas or na tu ral gas; (2) Article 3 —diesel engines were exempted f rom the impo rt prohibition if no alternatives existed; and (3) Article 4 —the procedure for the impor ta t ion of diesel engines would be regulated. May 26. During a two-year period, local industry would be exempted from ad valorem, additional, and surcharge taxes on the import of equipment, parts, and accessories that use gas instead of liquid hydrocarbons. The only import duties that remained applicable were the Pro Cordero y Corde Beni, the tax for the develop- ment of the Northeastern area, and the AADAA. June 23. Under Supreme Decree No. 17484, a 10 per cent additional export tax was imposed for a four- mon th period on exports to the EC of national textile hand ic ra f ts. July 7. The import of gray Portland cement was pro- hibited (Supreme Decree No. 17501). September 1. The legal statute embodied in Supreme Decree No. 14901 of September 13, 1977, which exempted fa ts and oils from all import taxes, was extended for another two years starting f rom the date of the present Supreme Decree. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Botswana is the Botswana Pula, which is pegged to a basket of currencies consisting of equal amounts for the SDR and the South African rand. On December 31, 1980 the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were P 0.7413 and P 0.7432, respectively, per US$1; on the same date, the middle rate for the SDR was P 0.9474 per SDR 1. Exchange rates for certain other currenciesl are quoted on the basis of their rates against the U.S. dollar in in terna t ional markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is applicable to transactions with all countries. The Minister of Finance and Develop- ment P lann ing has delegated most of the administration of exchange controls to the Bank of Botswana (the cen- tral b ank ). The latter, in turn, has delegated certain powers to banks appointed as authorized dealers. Prescription of Currency Payments to or from residents of foreign countries must normally be made or received in a foreign currency or through a nonresident-held pula account in Bo- tswana. There are no bilateral payments agreements. Imports and Import Payments Botswana is a member of a customs union with Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland, and there are generally no import restrictions on goods moving between the four countries. Import permits are required, however, for most goods imported directly into Botswana from outside the customs union. Cer- tain imported goods, including firearms, ammunition, fresh meat, and some agricultural and horticultural products, require permits, regardless of the country of supply. There are no restrictions or delays on pay- ments for authorized imports. Goods of domestic origin may move freely between Botswana, Malawi, and Zimbabwe by v ir tue of a customs agreement of 1956, provided they are not intended for re-export. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licensing, mainly for 1 Deutsche ma rk, South Afr ican rand, and pounds sterling. revenue reasons. Proceeds from exports must be received in a foreign currency or from a nonresident pula account. For a few items, such as precious and semiprecious stones, permits are required before export is allowed. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transactions, while subject to control, are not restricted. Authority to approve some types of current payments is dele- gated to commercial banks up to established limits— such as the basic exchange allowance for tourist travel, which is the equivalent of P 3,000 in a calendar year for an adult and P 1,000 for a child. The allowance for business travel is P 130 a day, up to a maximum of P 5,000 a calendar year. The annual limit on remit- tances by temporary residents is P 6,000 or 50 per cent of eligible salary, whichever is greater. Travelers may freely bring in any amount of domestic banknotes and coin, and take out P 75 in such banknotes and coin. The Bank of Botswana may authorize the maintenance of "Retained Accounts" at banks abroad for residents who make frequent foreign payments; these accounts are subject to ceilings. Capital Applications for outward transfers of capital are decided according to their merits, but are generally granted favorable consideration. The rulings on appli- cations for inward and outward capital transfers may depend on whether the applicant is temporarily a resi- dent foreign national, a nonresident, or a resident. There is a terminal allowance of P 6,000 for departing temporary residents. Changes during 1980 January L The prohibition on imports of beer, tobacco, and cigarettes f rom Zimbabwe was removed. March 1. An import surcharge of 7.5 per cent levied on impor ts into the customs un ion was abolished. June 3. The pula was pegged to a basket of curren- cies consisting of equal amounts for the SDR and the South African rand; this basket replaced the peg to the U.S. dollar which had been in effect since August 1976. November 7. The pula was revalued by 5.331 per cent against the currency basket. 79 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Brazil is the Cruzeiro. Since August 1968 Brazil has followed a flexible exchange rate policy under which the exchange rate for the cruzeiro is adjusted at relatively short intervals in terms of its intervention currency, the U.S. dollar. These adjust- ments take into account (1) the movement in prices in Brazil relative to that in its main trad ing partners, (2) the level of foreign exchange reserves, (3) export performance, and (4) the overall balance of payments position. Exchange transactions are carried out by the Central Bank of Brazil, the Banco do Brasil, S.A., and by banks and tourist agencies authorized to deal in foreign exchange; the tourist agencies deal only in banknotes and travelers checks in a "manual market." Un iform i ty between the rates quoted by the monetary authorities and the effective rates of the authorized banks is ensured by the practice of the monetary authorities of standing ready to purchase exchange f rom the banks and to sell it to the banks at the official rate for approved trans- actions. On December 31, 1980 the buying and selling rates quoted by the monetary authorities to the public were Cr$65.17 and Cr$65.50, respectively, per US$1. The same exchange rates are applicable to "agreement dollars" used for settlements with bilateral agreement countries. Rates for other currencies are based on the U.S. dollar rates in Brazil and the rates for the respec- tive currencies in New York and Europe. With specified exceptions, foreign exchange transactions are subject to brokerage fees, calculated on a sliding scale, which result in effective rates within %Q of 1 per cent on either side of the rates set by the monetary authorities. On the buying side, other effective rates result f rom the following arrangements involving the collection of levies in foreign exchange or at the point of exchange settlement at the banks: (1) under Decree-Law No. 1578, the National Monetary Council can impose an export levy in the form of a tax at the rate of 10 per cent; this rate can be lowered or be raised up to 40 per cent; (2) special regulations apply to coffee exports (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below); (3) a 10 per cent levy ("contribution quota") is applied to proceeds f rom exports of cocoa beans and cocoa products, with the exception of exports of sweetened cocoa powder containing up to 50 per cent of cocoa cake as raw material, for which the contri- bution quota is 5 per cent; (4) a contribution quota of 10 per cent is applied to proceeds from exports of raw hides of wild animals, and one of 5 per cent on proceeds from exports of tanned or processed hides of wild animals (Resolution No. 276 of the Central Bank, dated January 21, 1974); (5) export taxes payable within 30 days after shipment of goods in 80 respect of a wide range of primary exports or in the case of coffee within 10 days af ter shipment; and (6) a contribution quota applied on exports of orange juice for which export certificates were issued du r ing the period June 4-December 31, 1980; the quota rate ranged f rom a max imum of US$210 a ton dur ing the period June 4-15, 1980 to a m in imum of US$15 a ton during the period December 16-31, 1980 (Resolu- tion No. 620 of the Central Bank, dated June 3, 1980). On the selling side, a d ifferent effective rate arises from the provision of the Foreign Investment Law which specifies that the sum of net profits and dividends effectively remitted to persons and companies resident abroad is subject to a supplementary income tax when the average of actual remittances in any three-year period is in excess of 12 per cent of registered capital and reinvestment. Another effective rate arises from the application of a financial transac t ions tax (imposto sobre operates de credito, cdmbio e seguro, e sobre operates relativas a titulos e valor es mobiliares, I OF) of 25 per cent to purchases of foreign exchange for imports of goods and services, with specified exemptions. The Banco do Brasil S.A., the Banco da Amazonia S.A., and the Banco do Nordeste do Brasil S.A., acting on their own behalf, carry out a considerable propor- tion of all exchange transactions, including those of all public sector agencies. The Banco do Brasil sells foreign exchange for the requirements of the Government at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the trans- action. Exchange transactions in the currencies of bilateral partner countries are effected by the authorized banks, which settle them with the Central Bank. Global daily limits are fixed for the authorized banks' bought and sold positions in foreign exchange. The limits are fixed in relation to the capital and unen- cumbered reserves of each bank; a bank having capital and unencumbered reserves of up to Cr$500 million may maintain a bought or sold position of up to US$750,000; over and above that financial base, a bank is allowed a bought position of US$1.5 million and a sold position of up to US$7.5 million. Banks that are authorized to operate exclusively in the "manual mar- ket" and tourist agencies are permitted to maintain a bought position of up to US$25,000 for each authorized branch, but may not maintain a sold position. The Central Bank supplies foreign exchange to authorized banks in amounts not exceeding those needed to elimi- nate an oversold position and limited to 90 per cent of the exchange sold by the bank concerned to its cus- tomers dur ing the same day or on the previous day; included in this limit is their "manual market" position (banknotes and travelers checks). The Central Bank supplies foreign exchange to authorized banks for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution amortization of foreign loans under Resolution No. 63 and related interest payments. The banks are permitted to sell foreign exchange to each other; transfers between branches of the same bank are also allowed, subject to certain conditions. Such transactions may be carried out either by cable on a spot basis or on a forward basis and must be executed within 2 working days for spot transactions or not later than after 180 days for forward transactions. Administration of Control The National Monetary Council is responsible for the formulation of pverall foreign exchange policy. In accordance with the guidelines established by the Council, exchange control is operated by the Central Bank's Exchange Department (DECAM ), while the control over foreign capital is operated by the Depart- ment for the Control and Registration of Foreign Capital (FiRCE); the latter processes the registration of foreign capital. Certain borrowing abroad requires the prior approval of the Central Bank. The Department for International Operations (DEP IN) is in charge of the management of international reserves. Control over international borrowing by public enterprises is exercised by the Secretariat for Control of State-Owned Enterprises (SEST) in the Planning Secretariat of the Presidency of the Republic. The National Council of Foreign Trade (CONCEX ), a board headed by the Minister of Finance, formulates foreign trade policy. The Ministry of Foreign A f fa i rs is the Council's executive organ for dealing with foreign countries, while the Foreign Trade Department of the Banco do Brasil S.A. (CACEX) implements the Coun- cil's decisions within Brazil. CACEX issues export and import certificates (guias de exportagao and guias de importa$ao). Coffee exports are regulated by the Brazilian Coffee Institute ( IBC ). The Customs Policy Commission (CPA ), established within the Ministry of Finance, is responsible for formulating guidelines for tar iff policy. The CPA also decides on changes in customs duties under the provisions of existing legislation. The import policy of the public sector is coordinated by SEST. Prescription of Currency In principle, prescription of currency is related to the country of origin of imports or the country of final destination of exports, unless otherwise prescribed or authorized. Settlements with bilateral payments agree- ment countries1 are made in clearing dollars through the relevant agreement account. Payments between Brazil and Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela must be made through accounts main- 1 Bilateral accounts are maintained with Bulgaria, German Demo- cratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, and Romania. Settlements with countries with which Brazil has no payments agreements or special payments arrangemen ts are made in U.S. dollars or other freely usable currencies. BRAZIL tained with each other by the Central Bank of Brazil and the other central banks concerned, within the frame- work of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Imports and import Payments The import of commodities originating in or shipped from Cuba is prohibited. CACEX has suspended the issuance of import licenses for a large number of "superfluous" imports. The importation of a small number of commodities is prohibited. There is also a limitation on the direct import of consumer goods (and on the purchase on the domestic market of any imported consumer goods) by the public and semipublic sector (direct organs of the Government, autonomous agencies, public enterprises, and companies with mixed public and private participation). Moreover, the importation, leasing, or purchasing in the domestic market by the public sector of machinery, equipment, vehicles, and spare parts of foreign origin was limited in 1980 to 80 per cent of the levels established for 1979. All other imports may be grouped into the following two broad categories: (1) imports that are free of any requirement to secure prior administrative documenta- tion, e.g., samples without commercial value and certain educational materials, and (2) imports that require an import certificate, which is issued automatically if it conforms to a previously submitted indicative annual import plan. Import certificates are issued on an f.o.b. basis. CACEX is authorized to make a processing charge of up to 0.9 per cent on the value of import certificates; as a rule, certificates are valid for 90 days or 180 days, depending on the commodity (60 days for goods sub- ject to price controls). For special bonded warehouse importers, CACEX establishes half-yearly foreign cur- rency quotas and issues clearance certificates based on these importers' semiannual import programs. For a number of specified imports, the import certificate may be obtained after the commodity has been landed but before customs clearance. For certain other imports the prior approval of CACEX is required; these include goods imported by public bodies,2 imports for which tariff concessions are being sought, certain imports without exchange cover, goods for use in fa irs and trade exhibitions, certain types of used capital goods, and goods to be brought in with foreign financing on a deferred payment basis. For the last-mentioned category, it is a prior condition for the gran t ing of import certificates for specified commodities that importers must arrange external financing with specified minimum maturities ranging between three years and eight years, depending on the type of com- 2 Under instructions issued by the Economic Development Council, fede ral ministries and subordinate agencies and enterprises are re- qu i red to subm i t, for approval by the President, an annual investment p rog ram inco rpo ra t ing the ir expected import requirements. In 1980 these imports were limited to 80 per cent of the amounts established for 1979. 81 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL modity and the amount of financing involved.3 All importers must be registered with CACEX, and imports can be effected only by registered firms or persons. Importers are required to submit to CACEX a forecast of their expected import operations. The Minister of Finance may, on a temporary basis, and in accordance with the directives of the Economic Development Coun- cil (EDC) and without prejudice to commitments under LAIA, authorize CACEX to reject applications for import certificates where (1) imports are for speculative stock building purposes; (2) imports are causing or are threatening to cause serious damage to the national economy; or (3) imports originate in or are shipped from countries that impede Brazilian exports. Goods imported into the Manaus free zone are subject to an annual quota. The transfer to other parts of Brazil (as a passenger's baggage) of foreign goods originally imported into the Manaus free zone is restricted to the equivalent of US$300 free of import taxes. As a general rule, imports may be cleared through customs before an exchange contract is closed. How- ever, CACEX may approve applications for the payment of imports of any goods at terms of up to 360 days from the date of shipment, provided that no import duty concessions or other tax concessions are involved. External financing at terms in excess of 360 days for imports, regardless of the classification of the importer and the purpose of the merchandise, must be registered with the Central Bank, which will evaluate them in the light of foreign debt policy, before a request can be made for registration of the foreign loan with FIRCE. Registration with FIRCE is also dependent on a ruling by CA^EX that Brazilian firms are unable to supply the imports. Payment of the amount financed, and the interest thereon, may be made only upon presentation of a certificate of authorization issued by the Central Bank. Prior to shipment of the goods, total payments to suppliers for the nonfinanced amount may not exceed 20 per cent of the import value. Spot exchange contracts may be closed if the con- tract is intended to settle drafts, at sight or on maturity, and the appropriate shipping documents are presented. Spot exchange contracts must be settled on maturity of the draf t; settlement may take place 2 working days in advance of the ma tur i ty date. Forward contracts, for up to 180 days, may be closed when a letter of credit is being opened. A deposit requirement equivalent to 100 per cent of the value of the exchange operation is applied, with some exceptions,4 to the contracting of 8 Import transactions below US$100,000 a year for each importer and certain specified imports, including direct imports by public adminis- tra t ive bodies, are exempt from this requirement. 4 Imports exempt from the deposit requirement include beef, print- ing paper for newspapers, magazines and books, fertilizers, certain agr icu l tural chemicals and related raw materials for their production, and goods imported into the Manaus free zone for use in local pro- duction. Also exempt are imports authorized under drawback opera- tions, imports of seeds and fru i ts for planting, and imports of beans, soybean, corn, onion, and copper ore. 82 forward exchange for the opening of letters of credit. Such deposits must be transferred to the Central Bank on the working day following the contracting of the exchange operation and are released on the date of settlement or the date of cancellation of the contract. Letters of credit must be opened within 5 working days f rom the date of the exchange contract. Letters of credit for more than 360 days may be opened without prior closing of an exchange contract. Commercial banks ordinarily require a guarantee deposit for their own protection for forward exchange contracts; the amount of the deposit varies with the credit standing of the customer. When the contracts are liquidated, guarantee deposits may be used in pay- ment for the foreign exchange. Special procedures are applicable to certain imports of petroleum and petroleum products and of wheat. For petroleum and specified petroleum by-products, PETROBRAS concludes for each import transaction an individual foreign exchange contract. At the same time, the Banco do Brasil S.A. concludes a foreign exchange contract with the Central Bank, to cover its position for an amount equivalent to the value of the individual contract at the exchange rate at which the Central Bank sells foreign exchange to commercial banks. For some commodities, eligibility for exemption from import duties may be precluded by the existence of satisfactory domestic equivalents (similares nationals); application of such duties may also be affected by the establishment of a minimum import price (pauta de valor minimo) or of a reference price. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles related to income from foreign capital, royalties, and technical assistance are governed by the provisions of the Foreign Investment Law. In addition to certain restrictions on remittances stipulated in that law, limits are placed on remittances of all royalties arid technical assistance fees (see below). Subject to certain conditions, authorized banks may sell foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$300 a month for personal remittances abroad. Payments for other current invisibles require the approval of DECAM or FIRCE, which authorizes remittances freely, subject to the presentation of supporting documents as evidence that a bona fide current transaction is involved. Sales of foreign exchange to meet personal expenses connected with travel abroad are permitted up to US$1,000 a person a trip, without the prior approval of the Central Bank. Applications for purchases of travel exchange in excess of US$1,000 must be submitted to the Central Bank, which considers each case on its merits; amounts in excess of US$1,000, when authorized, may be taken up in the form of payment orders only. Foreign residents in transit in Brazil are permitted to purchase foreign currency up to the equivalent of the amount they sold during the period of their stay in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Brazil; however, purchases in excess of 30 per cent of the amount previously sold require the approval of the Central Bank. Remittances abroad of income from foreign direct investments and reinvestments and remittances in respect of royalties and technical assistance are governed by Decree No. 55762 of February 17, 1965, which con- tains the regulations implementing the Foreign Invest- ment Law. Remittances are allowed only when the for- eign capital concerned, including reinvestments, and the contracts for patents and trademarks, and for technical, scientific, and administrative assistance, are registered at FIRCE in accordance with the established rules (see section on Capital, below). The registration of contracts or deeds for technical assistance or the use of patents or trademarks is subject to approval by the National Insti- tute of Industrial Property. Remittances are normally authorized in the currency of the country of domicile or of the head office of the beneficiaries. Remittances of interest on loans and credits and of related amortiza- tion payments are permitted freely in accordance with the terms stipulated in the respective contract and recorded in the certificate of registration; the remittances are subject to withholding tax at a rate of 25 per cent, but remitters are eligible for a rebate on the tax paid; in May 1980 the rebate was reduced from 95 per cent to 40 per cent of the tax. A progressive supplementary income tax is levied on remittances to persons and companies resident abroad of earnings on foreign capital (other than capital invested in Brazilian securities) if their average over a three-year period exceeds 12 per cent of the registered capital and reinvestments. For registered portfolio cap- ital, the supplementary income tax is levied if remit- tances of dividends, bonuses, and capital gains in each fiscal year exceed 12 per cent of the registered invest- ment. For foreign capital that produces goods or ser- vices for luxury consumption, remittances of profits are limited to 8 per cent per annum of the registered capital. Remittances of royalties by a branch or subsidiary established in Brazil to its head office abroad are not permitted when 50 per cent or more of the local firm's voting capital is directly or indirectly held by the for- eign principal firm or when the majority of the firm's capital in Brazil belongs to the recipients of the royal- ties abroad. Remittances of technical assistance fees (either with or without the use of trademarks and patents) are not permitted, as a rule, when remunera- tion for such services exceeds specified percentages, ranging from 1 per cent to 5 per cent, of net receipts from the sale or manufacture of the products. The per- centages are the same as those established in Brazil's taxation laws for determining the maximum permissible deductions for such expenses. Travelers may take out domestic and foreign bank- notes freely. BRAZIL Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are free of licensing requirements but require an export certificate issued by CACEX to ensure com- pliance with exchange and trade regulations. Some exports are free of controls, but exports of many com- modities require prior approval of CACEX, while exports of specified commodities, including certain primary products and raw materials required for domestic con- sumption, are prohibited or suspended, and exports of certain other commodities are conditional on prior domestic sales. Exports requiring approval include those effected through bilateral accounts, exports without exchange cover, exports on consignment, re-exports, commodities for which minimum export prices are fixed by CACEX, and exports requiring prior authorization by government agencies. Exports of certain commodities, including beef, are subject to an annual quota. Exports of coffee are subject to authorization by the IBC. The IBC does not grant an authorization to export coffee unless the sale contract is based on a price per pound that is at least equal to the minimum registration price (in U.S. dollars a pound, f.o.b.) fixed from time to time by the IBC for the various types of coffee, although discounts are also authorized. Exporters of coffee are required to surrender, without compensation, a portion of their foreign exchange proceeds in the form of a contribution quota which varies according to the type of coffee. The cruzeiro proceeds from the contribution quota are transferred to the Export Product Protection Fund for Coffee. The contribution quotas are set from time to time by the IBC and are fixed in terms of foreign currency; on December 31, 1980 they were US$137.00 for green or decaffeinated raw-hulled coffee (a bag of 60.5 k i lograms) and for green or ground- roasted coffee (a bag of 48 k i lograms), US$2.93 a pound for spray-dried soluble coffee and US$3.00 a pound for freeze-dried soluble coffee. Exporters of coffee convert foreign exchange proceeds, a f ter deduc- tion of the contribution quotas, at the official market rate prevailing on the date of exchange contract. Thus, the proceeds received by coffee exporters depend on ( 1) the amount of the contribution quota, (2) the actual price received (f.o.b. Brazil, in U.S. dollars), (3) the applicable export levy, and (4) the official market rate of exchange. During 1980, the IBC continued to make periodic announcements of new minimum registration prices, as well as contribution quotas for exports of soluble coffee and green, ground-roasted, and decaf- fe ina ted coffee. The foreign exchange proceeds from all other exports must be surrendered and converted at the prevailing official market rate within ten days after shipment; extension of this limit may be granted in cases of deferred payment. Exporters of cocoa beans and cocoa products are required to surrender without compensa- tion 10 per cent of their exchange proceeds.5 The 5 Only 5 per cent in the case of sugared cocoa powder containing up to 50 per cent of cocoa cake. 83 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL cruzeiro equivalent of these deductions is used to finance a program of price support and plantation improvement for cocoa. Furthermore, a contribution quota of 10 per cent is applied to proceeds f rom exports of unprocessed hides of wild animals, and 5 per cent on export proceeds from tanned or processed hides of wild animals. A number of export incentives are in operation, prin- cipally for manufac tured commodities. Various lines of credit for exporters, some at preferential rates of interest, are provided by the Banco do Brasil S.A. and the com- mercial banks. These financing facilities include both export financing and the financing of production and warehousing for export, particularly for manufac tures. In addition, assistance is provided to exporters in the field of export credit insurance and by way of guar- antees. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from current invisibles must be sold through the Banco do Brasil S.A. or the authorized banks at the prevailing market rate. Travelers checks and foreign banknotes are sold in the "manual market." Brazilian enterprises rendering services to tourists (e.g., hotels, restaurants, travel agencies) may receive income tax rebates in proportion to their earnings f rom tourism, provided that the service is paid for in foreign exchange and that the tourist enterprise converts the exchange into cruzeiros at the official rate.6 Travelers may br ing in domestic and foreign currency notes freely. Capital Capital inflows in the form of financial loans under Central Bank Resolution No. 63, as amended, or under the provision of the Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 4131) are subject to ceilings and require the prior approval of the Central Bank. The prior approval of the Central Bank is required for borrowing by the private or public sector when the foreign funds originate from official financial institutions abroad, for other for- eign borrowing by the private sector, and when the transaction is to be guaranteed by the National Treasury or, on its behalf, by any official credit institution. Other- wise, inward transfers are unrestricted and free of con- trol, although the subsequent utilization of the proceeds for the acquisition of certain domestic assets may be subject to control. There is a separate regime for inward portfolio investment. For the purpose of repatriation and the remittance of income, however, inward t rans fe rs of foreign capital and the reinvestment of profits on for- eign capital must be registered with FIRCE. Foreign capital is defined for this purpose as ( 1) goods, machinery, and equipment to be used to produce goods or to render services which have entered the country without an initial corresponding expenditure of foreign exchange and (2) financial and monetary resources 6 Application of the relevant Decree-Law No. 1587 of December 20, 1977 is still pending implementing regulations. 84 brought into the coun try for investment in economic pursuits, provided that, in either case, the owner is a person or firm resident or domiciled abroad or with headquarters abroad. Foreign capital other than capital invested in Brazilian securities is classified, for purposes of registra- t ion, as direct investments or loans, whether imported in the form of money or of goods, and it includes rein- vested profits from fore ign capital. Direct investment is defined as that foreign capital which constitutes part of the corporate capital and participates directly in the risk inherent in an economic undertaking. Foreign capital that is not part of the corporate capital of any enterprise is considered to be a loan. Any loan obtained to purchase capital goods abroad, whether contracted by the manu fac tu rer himself or by a third party, is con- sidered to be financing (mostly suppliers' cred i t). Persons domiciled or resident abroad may make por tfo l io investments in Brazilian commercial and indus- trial securities, provided that transactions are channeled through a Brazilian "investment company" and are effected on Brazilian stock exchanges. Such capital is subject to registration with the Central Bank and must remain in the coun t ry for at least two years, following which repatriation may be effected free of income taxes at an average rate of up to 20 per cent every six months. The m in imum par t ic ipa t ion in por tfo l io investment companies by foreign firms or individuals is US$1,000. For financial imports and for investments made in the form of goods, the registration is in the currency of the coun try of domicile of the creditor or investor (or of its head office) or, in special circumstances, in the cur- rency of the country of origin of the goods or of the credit. To register loans that are made in fore ign cur- rency it is necessary to ce r t i fy that the interest rate corresponds to that prevailing in the original market of the loan, that the amortization schedule is not dis- proportionately heavy in the early stages of repayment, and, in the case of import financing loans, that the prices of the imported goods correspond to the prices of com- parable goods in the country of origin. If the terms of financing are approved, CACEX examines the applications for some foreign borrowing in the light of the price and essentiality of the proposed import and of the ava i lab i l i ty of satisfactory domestic equivalents. Capital entering Brazil is registered in foreign cur- rency. Reinvestments are defined as profits of companies established in Brazil and accruing to persons or com- panies resident or domiciled abroad. Such profits must have been reinvested in the same companies that pro- duced them or in another sector of the Brazilian economy. The registration of reinvested profits is made simultaneously in Brazilian currency and in the cur- rency of the country to which the profits could have been remitted. The conversion is calculated at the average exchange rate prevailing between the date on ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution which the profits appeared on the balance sheet of a company and the date of their reinvestment. Special regulations govern borrowing abroad. Under Central Bank Resolution No. 63, as amended, private commercial and investment banks and the Na t ional Bank for Economic Development may be authorized to take up foreign currency credits abroad for domestic relending for purposes of financing working capital. Safeguards against excessive use of such credits include limitations on the fore ign obligations that each bank may assume (related to the terms of the credit and the size of the b ank) and the provision that the ultimate borrower must agree to bear the exchange risk. The Cen- tral Bank assures the availability of cover for the repa- triation of the loan at ma tur i ty. All other financial loans in foreign currency are effected under the general provi- sions of the Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 4131 ). Loans under this law also require prior Central Bank authorization, but the Central Bank does not undertake to provide specific exchange cover for them. Loans under Resolution No. 63, as well as those under Law No. 4131, must have a m in imum term of eight years but no max imum term is set. Foreign loans are subject to mandatory deposit at the Central Bank. The deposit is applicable to 75 per cent of the loan proceeds converted into cruzeiros and it is released, as follows: one third a f ter 60 days f rom the deposit date, another one third a f ter 90 days, and the balance a f ter 120 days. In addition to these manda to ry deposit regulations, on June 23, 1977 the Central Bank authorized vo lun ta ry deposits at the Central Bank by financial and non- financial institutions of the outstanding balances of their foreign loans with a provision that the operation could be reversed af ter 30 days. For as long as the deposit remains with the Central Bank, the Central Bank covers all costs on these loans, including the exchange cost. As part of the measures announced on December 7, 1979, these provisions were modified as follows: ( 1) existing voluntary deposits at the Cen- tral Bank in respect of nonf inanc ial loans (under Law No. 4131) were frozen for an indef in i te period, except for funds required for related interest and amortiza- tion payments, for t rans fo rma t ion of such loans into direct investment or, in certain special cases, upon the approval of the Central Bank; and (2) a manda tory waiting period of 180 days was established for the with- drawal of deposits made in the Central Bank under Resolution No. 63; where the funds are for use in the rollover of loans to domestic enterprises, the waiting period is 15 days. Under a program for the management of external debt, the National Monetary Council imposes quan t i ta- tive limits on the amount of financial loans for which authorization may be given by the Central Bank. Loans are authorized only if maturities conform with minimum requirements established from time to time BRAZIL by the Central Bank, which permits the total of loans ou ts tand ing to rise only to the extent that the servicing commitments on Brazil's total external indeb tedness do not depart from the guidelines set by the National Mone ta ry Council. At the end of 1980 the Central Bank's m in imum acceptable ma tu r i ty was at eight years. However, provided that the fu ll amount of the fo re ign exchange remains committed to Brazil for the m in imum specified ma tu r i ty, loans to the final borrower in Brazil, as well as loans to banks under Resolution No. 63, may be made at terms shorter than the final m a t u r i ty of the debt abroad, and these f u n ds may sub- sequen t ly be re-lent to the same or a second borrower. Ou twa rd capital t ran s fe rs not men t ioned above require au thor iza t ion by DECAM and FIRCE, which consider app l ica t ions on the ir merits. Approved exchange trans- actions involving ou tward t rans fe rs of private capital are effected through authorized banks at the p reva i l ing off ic ial ma rket rate. Gold Residents may freely purchase, ho ld, and sell gold coin in Brazil. Gold m in ing is conducted under Law No. 4425 of October 8, 1964. The domestic negotiation of newly mined gold is sub ject to a m in ing tax of 1 per cent which may be offset against other tax liabilities if and when the gold is manu fac tu red. Imports of gold are subject to the issuance of an import certificate by CACEX; imports of native gold and of gold in the form of powder are free of customs duty. Exports of gold require special authorization f rom the Central Bank and export certificates issued by CACEX. Changes during 1980 January 16. The proportion of fore ign loans subject to manda to ry deposit at the Central Bank was reduced f rom 100 per cent to 75 per cent and the max imum retention period for the deposits was reduced f rom 210 days to 120 days. Henceforth, o n e - t h i rd of the deposits would be released a f ter 60 days, a fu r ther one third af ter 90 days f rom the deposit date, and the remaining one th i rd af ter 120 days. January 16. As a basis for the implementation of the m in ideva lua t ion policy, a target of 40 per cent was announced for the deva lua t ion of the cruzeiro vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar dur ing 1980. April 4. The export tax on soybeans, introduced in December 1979, was abolished. April 18. The financial transactions tax (IOF) was extended to purchases of foreign exchange for imports of goods and services, with the exception of those effected w i th in the framework of the agreement on the I ta ipu project. Initially fixed at 15 per cent for most transac t ions, the tax rate was scheduled to be reduced to 10 per cent on September 1, but remained unchanged un t il December 31. May 8. The Central Bank introduced Resolution No. 612 which, inter alia, exempted additional items 85 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL from the IOF, including crude oil imports by PETROBRAS, fertilizers, newsprints, imports by or for the National Treasury, and settlement of rental fees. May 8. The Central Bank introduced Resolution No. 613, which reduced from 95 per cent to 40 per cent the rebate on the 25 per cent income tax applied to payments of interest, commissions, and charges on foreign loans. May 8. The 12 per cent export tax on sisal, introduced in December 1979, was abolished. May 23. The mandatory waiting period for the with- drawal of deposits at the Central Bank under Resolution No. 63 was reduced to 15 days where the funds are used for the rollover of loans to domestic firms. June 3. Exports of orange juice were made subject to a temporary contribution quota effective June 4 through December 31. September 24. The Central Bank introduced Resolu- tion No. 638, requiring that, as a prior condition for granting import certificates for a specified list of com- modities, importers must arrange external financing with specified minimum maturities ranging between three years and eight years, depending on the commodity and the amount involved. Import transactions below US$100,000 a year for each importer and certain specified imports, including direct imports by public administrative bodies, were exempt from the require- ment. October 22. The contribution quota affecting exports of quartz chips was abolished. November 5. It was announced that, f rom January 1981, Brazil would discontinue the practice of advance announcement of the devaluation rate for the cruzeiro. December 17. The limit on the daily bought and sold positions in foreign exchange of authorized banks was raised from US$500,000 to US$750,000 for the bought and sold positions of banks with capital up to Cr$500 million; for banks with capital above that amoun t, the limits were raised to US$1.5 million for the bought position and US$7.5 million for the sold position. December 17. The minimum period for leasing of capital goods was fixed at five years. Remittances arising from such leasing operations were subject to withholding of income tax at a rate of 2.5 per cent or 5 per cent and to the IOF tax at a rate of 90 per cent of the rate applicable to merchandise imports. December 17. An outside limit of 10 days after ship- ment was fixed for the surrender of export proceeds. The Central Bank could waive this limit for exports on a deferred payment basis. December 31. The 15 per cent IOF tax imposed on April 18 on foreign exchange sales for imports of goods and services was raised to 25 per cent. 86 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Burma is the Burmese Kyat, which is pegged to the SDR at K 8.50847 = SDR 1. Burma applies margins of 21A per cent in respect of spot exchange transactions, based on the fixed kyat-SDR rate. The buying and selling rates of the kyat for the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, the Swiss franc, and the U.S. dollar, quoted by the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, are determined on the basis of the daily calculations of the value of these currencies against the SDR. On December 31, 1980 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were K 6.6903 and K 6.8241, respectively, per US$1. Buy- ing and selling rates for the Belgian franc, the Italian lira, and the Netherlands guilder are determined on the basis of appropriate cross rates in the New York market; buying and selling rates for the Hong Kong dollar, the Malaysian ringgit, and the Singapore dollar are deter- mined weekly on the basis of appropriate cross rates in the Hong Kong, Kuala Lumpur, and Singapore markets, respectively; and buying and selling rates for other cur- rencies are based on appropriate cross rates in local markets (e.g., Bombay, for the Indian rupee ). There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Control Board, through the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, in accordance with instructions from the Ministry of Planning and Finance. A Foreign Exchange Control Committee headed by the Minister of Planning and Finance is in charge of the allocation of foreign exchange. Prescription of Currency Burma has no bilateral payments agreements. Certain settlements with Bangladesh are channeled through a nonresident bank account at the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, and certain settlements with India are channeled through special rupee accounts in that country. Pay- ments to other countries may be made in any foreign currency or by crediting kyats to an External Account in Burma. Receipts must be collected in convertible cur- rencies or to the debit of an External Account in Burma. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts may be kept with the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank by in terna t ional organiza- tions, diplomatic personnel, or other foreign residents, subject to approval by the Exchange Control Board. Such accounts are normally held in deutsche mark, Indian rupees, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars. They may be credited and debited freely, but no interest is payable on them. Foreign nationals temporarily resi- dent in Burma are entitled to hold foreign exchange utilization cards for use in diplomatic shops. Nonresi- dents may be authorized to hold external accounts in kyats; all debits and credits to such accounts require prior authorization. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Afr ica are prohibited. Also prohibited are imports of a few commodities from any source —principally opium and other nar- cotics, monkeys, playing cards, and gold and silver bullion. An import program is prepared annually as part of the foreign exchange budget drawn up by the Minis- try of Planning and Finance. All imports are made by, or in the name of, the Myanma Export-Import Corpora- tion (ME IC ). The MEIC imports goods for the use of the private sector, whose requirements are estimated by the Central Trade Council. In general, government agencies and departments import goods for their own use, including imports under loan and aid agreements, in the name of the MEIC. Most imports are purchased on an f.o.b. basis, and shipments are made on vessels owned or chartered by the Burma Five Star Shipping Corporation whenever possible. All payments for imports are made through the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to licensing. In general, payments for items connected with foreign trade are allowed automatically, and payments for most other purposes are considered on a case-by-case basis. Payments for membership fees to educational or tech- nical institutions abroad and payments for subscriptions to certain foreign periodicals are, as a rule, allowed freely. Family remittances are permitted only for for- eign technicians employed under contract by the Gov- ernment, the limit being one half of the net salary if the wife is living abroad, and one third of the net salary if the wife is living in Bu rma. Remittances of insurance payments are considered on a case-by-case basis. The remittance of pension payments to retired government employees who served the Government as Burmese nationals but took up foreign citizenship before depar- ture f rom Burma is not permitted. Most personal money order remittances to neighboring countries through post offices are not permitted. Foreign exchange allocations for tourist travel by residents have been suspended. However, residents who have been granted an official permit to travel abroad for any other purpose may take out freely the equivalent of K 100 in the currency of the country of destination or, if that currency is not available, in U.S. dollar notes. Travel for medical reasons is authorized on a case- by-case basis. Travel for educational purposes is autho- 87 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA rized only in connection with state scholarships. Other- wise, Burmese nationals are not allowed to travel abroad except on official missions or for employment abroad. On leaving, nonresident travelers who have stayed in the country for less than six months may take out any foreign currency they still hold and may also reconvert the remaining balance of the kyats obtained by conver- sion of foreign currency. The export of Burmese cur- rency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South A f r ica are prohibited. There is also a list of prohibited exports comprising iron and steel, brass, copper, and aluminum and scrap thereof, foreign manufactures, and commodities of domestic origin which need to be conserved for domestic require- ments. Exports are generally effected by the MEIC, although timber, rubber, ju te, fish and fish products, coffee, hides and skins, minerals, and petroleum and petroleum products may be exported directly by other government agencies and departments. Rice is exported by the Agriculture and Farm Produce Trade Corpora- tion in the name of the MEIC. Export proceeds must be obtained in a manner satisfactory to the exchange control authorities and surrendered to the Myanma For- eign Trade Bank within six months f rom the date of shipment. Certain exports are subsidized through the Export Price Equalization Fund Account. When exports are made on an f.o.b. basis, buyers are free to choose the carrier, but exports on a c.i.f. basis are usually shipped by the Burma Five Star Shipping Corporation or on vessels chartered or nominated by it. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be sur- rendered. Travelers may bring in, subject to declaration, any amount in foreign currency; foreign nationals who intend to stay for more than six months must surrender all foreign exchange in their possession unless special permission is given to the contrary. The import of Burmese currency is prohibited. Capital In principle, investment proposals are considered by an Investment Committee to ascertain whether the pro- posed enterprise will utilize domestic raw materials, increase domestic employment, conserve foreign exchange, and generally conform to the economic plans of the Government. However, permission has not been granted for any fore ign private investment in Burma since 1963. All outward transfers of capital require prior approval. Residents are not permitted to remit funds abroad for investment. The repatriation of personal assets and the making of fam i ly remittances have been suspended, with minor exceptions, for foreign nationals employed in the private sector; those employed in the public sector may remit their personal savings when leaving the service. When the t rans fer abroad of payments in favor of non- residents is not permitted, the authorities can allow such payments to be credited to external accounts in kyats. All debits and credits to these accounts require prior permission. The impor t, export, and t rans fer of securi- ties involving nonresident interests require individual licenses. Gold Residents may hold and trade in gold jewelry, gold coin, and unworked gold in Burma. Licenses for imports and exports of gold are not granted unless they are effected by or on behalf of the mone tary author- ities. Jewelry for personal wear may be brought into Burma subject to customs declaration at the port of arrival. The export of personal jewelry is permitted under license, subject to the condition that the jewelry will be repatriated. No conditions are attached, however, to the taking out of personal jewelry that was declared to the customs when it was brought into Burma. Changes during 1980 January 15. Exchange and trade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe (formerly Rhodesia) were lifted. 88 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Burundi is the Burundi Franc, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at FBu 90.00 = US$1. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1980 were FBu 89.55 and FBu 90.45, respectively, per US$1. The Bank of the Republic of Burundi (the central bank) quotes buying and selling rates for the Belgian franc based on its fixed rates for the U.S. dollar and the official market rates for the U.S. dollar in Brussels. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also offi- cially quoted, with quotations based on either the quoted rates for the Belgian franc and the official market rates in Brussels for the currencies concerned or, for the Kenya shilling, the Uganda shilling, and the zaire, on their official values in terms of SDRs. For the Tanzania shilling the rate quoted is based on the Bank of Tan- zania's rate for the U.S. dollar. The Rwanda franc is also officially quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi at the rate of FBu 96.94 per RF 100, the offi- cial buying and selling rates being FBu 96.45 and FBu 97.43, respectively, per RF 100. Authorized banks must carry out permitted exchange transactions at the buying and selling rates established by the Bank of the Republic for currencies quoted by that Bank. A charge of 2 per mill is collected on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions and for- eign trade is vested in the Bank of the Republic; author- ity to carry out some transactions is delegated to three authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements with neighboring countries including Kenya, Rwanda, Uganda, and Zaire are effected through special clearing accounts with the Bank of the Republic. With this exception, outgoing payments may be made and receipts may be obtained in any currency quoted by the Bank of the Republic. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Accounts in Burundi Francs may be maintained, subject to the approval of the Bank of the Republic, by ( 1) physical persons of foreign nationality, such as diplomats, who are temporarily established in Burundi and are not considered as residents, and (2) juridical persons of foreign nationality with special status, such as foreign embassies and international 1 Austrian schillings, Canadian dollars, Danish k rone r, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Tanzania shillings, Uganda shillings, and za'ires. organizations. These accounts may be credited freely with the proceeds of foreign currencies quoted by the Bank of the Republic, and they may be debited freely for withdrawals of Burundi francs for any normal cur- rent payments in Bu rundi and for conversion into fo r- eign exchange (except bankno te s ). All other debits and credits require the prior approval of the Bank of the Republic. These accounts do not bear interest and must not be overdrawn. Certain nonresidents may m a in t a in Nonresident Accounts in Foreign Currencies with an authorized bank. The opening of such accounts requires the approval of the Bank of the Republic and is restricted to ( 1) physical persons of fore ign na t iona l i ty who are resident abroad and (2) jur id ical persons hav ing branches or subsidiaries abroad. These accounts may be credited free ly w i th any fore ign currency quoted by the Bank of the Republic that is received f rom abroad. They may be debited freely for ( 1) conversion in to Bu rundi f rancs for any payments in Burundi and (2) payments abroad for travel and representation or for the purchase of foreign goods. These accounts cannot bear interest and must not be overdrawn; the related bank charges and commissions may be settled in Burundi f rancs. Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in or shipped f rom South Afr ica are prohibited. All imports except trade samples and merchandise not intended for sale, whose declared consumer value c. & f. Bu jumbu ra is FBu 50,000 or less, require licenses; these licenses are genera l ly issued freely, but importers have been ins t ruc ted not to order abroad certain goods of which domestic stocks are adequate or that are produced locally. Applications for licenses must be submitted to the Bank of the Repub l ic th rough an authorized bank. The approval of such an application constitutes an au thor iza t ion also to ob ta in fo re ign exchange. With certain exceptions, app l ica t ions for amounts under FBu 500,000 are approved by the author- ized banks. A license is valid for 12 months s ta r t ing on the first day of the month following its validation. An adm in is tra t ive tax amoun t ing to 1 per cent of the f.o.b. value of the goods is collected at the time of valida- tion of the license. All goods imported in to B u r u n di must be insured by the approved Bu rundi insurer (SOCABU) and p rem iums must be paid in Bu rundi francs. All consignments of imports exceeding FBu 500,000 in value are subject to preshipment inspection w i th regard to qua l i ty, quan t i ty, packing, and price comparison by the General Superintendence Company of Geneva acting for the Bu rundi authorities. In principle, fore ign exchange is made available at the time of shipment of the goods. For goods under global licenses, fore ign exchange is not made available 89 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI until after customs clearance. All imports are subject to a statistical tax of 3 per cent ad valorem, in addition to any applicable customs duties and fiscal duties. may receive a refund of duties paid, provided that they incorporate raw materials on which import duty has been paid. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require approval. Shipping insurance on coffee exports normally must be taken out in Burundi francs with SOCABU. Upon payment of taxes, transfers of earnings of foreign nationals are freely per- mitted at the un iform rate of 60 per cent of net annual income. Private joint-stock companies may freely and immediately transfer a portion of the re turn on foreign capital and of the share allocated to foreign directors not exceeding 50 per cent of the profits for the budget year, net of corporation tax. The balance of the profits may be transferred subsequently, depending on the savings made in Burundi by those concerned. However, enterprises that have obtained approved status under the Investment Code may obtain a guarantee of fu ll transferability of net declared profits. Persons leaving Burundi permanently are authorized to transfer abroad their holdings of Burundi francs that consist of unremitted savings or the sale proceeds of their personal effects. Transfer of income f rom rental properties to nonresident owners of foreign nationality is permitted up to 50 per cent of net rental income (a f ter payment of taxes and deduction of 20 per cent for maintenance expenses). Amounts not remitted imme- diately may be transferred subsequently, depending on the length of time the savings were held in Burundi. Resident owners of foreign nationality may remit the same proportion of such income. Residents of Burundi nationality may apply for exchange needed for foreign travel. There is no fixed limit on the amount that may be allocated, which depends on the na ture of the travel. All travelers may take out up to FBu 2,000 in Burundi banknotes. In addition, residents may freely purchase foreign travel tickets, up to reasonable amounts, against payment in Burundi francs. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. All exports valued at over FBu 10,000 are subject to a prior declara- tion. The declaration must be presented for certification by the Bank of the Republic through an authorized bank. Declarations are valid for six months, but exten- sions may be granted by the Bank of the Republic. Payments must be collected within 90 days of the date of export declaration at the customs. All exchange proceeds f rom exports must be surrendered to an author- ized bank within 8 days from their collection. Exports of arabica and robusta coffee and of cattle, sheep, and goatskins are the monopoly of the Bu rundi Coffee Com- pany and of Burundi Tanneries, respectively. Virtually all exports, including coffee, are subject to export taxes and a statistical tax. Exports of manufactured goods 90 Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to authorized banks. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and up to FBu 2,000 in Burundi banknotes. Capital The Investment Code of August 25, 1967 provides fiscal and other benefits for domestic and foreign private investors. A new Investment Law, adopted on April 4, 1979, revised some of the investment procedures. Under the Investment Code new investments that fu l f i ll specified conditions as to amount and economic importance may be granted priority status to which specified privileges are attached, mainly in the form of exemptions from import duties and from taxes on income f rom the invest- ment. Import duties and taxes may be reduced or sus- pended for goods and equipment needed for starting a particular project and, dur ing a period of 5 years, for other merchandise needed for the manu fac tu r ing opera- tion or for the upkeep of the original investment. Taxes on profits and real estate may likewise be reduced or suspended. Enterprises granted priority status may obtain protection against foreign competition, priority in the allocation of government contracts, and a guar- antee f rom the Bank of the Republic for the free transfer of profits and dividends and the repatriation of the invested capital. In addition to these privileges, com- panies under tak ing investments that are considered to be of prime importance to Burundi's economic development may be granted, under a separate convention, a guar- antee that direct taxes on their activities will not be increased for 15 years. An investment commission under the Ministry of Planning is charged with examining requests for priority status and granting the necessary authorization. In addition, under the new law, Burundi guarantees each foreign investor freedom of settlement; foreign investors are also assured an allocation of foreign exchange for the purchase of raw materials and products abroad as well as for the repayment of loans taken out under the investment agreement. Capital transfers by residents require individual authorization, as does foreign capital on which a repa- triation guarantee has been granted. The guarantee is furn ished for fore ign exchange imported by resident enterprises for work ing capital purposes, in any of the currencies quoted by the Bank of the Republic, and is valid for a one-year period, which is renewable. The guarantee provides for the transfer of the original amount surrendered at the official rate ruling on the day of t rans fe r. Under the new law, Burundi also guar- antees the repatriation of invested capital in the event of sale or shutdown of the business. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI Gold Dealings in gold coin must be conducted through the Bank of the Republic, since all private dealing in gold is prohibited. The Bank purchases unrefined gold f rom domestic producers at FBu 500 a gram. Af ter refining abroad, this gold is included in the official monetary reserves. Imports and exports of gold may be made only by the Bank of the Republic, with the exception that private firms may be licensed to import gold for dental use. Changes during 1980 September 1. Export Regulation "D" entered into force, involving, inter alia, a un i fo rm time limit of 90 days ( f rom the date of customs declaration) for the collection of proceeds from exports to all destinations. (Previously, a limit of 45 days prevailed for exports to certain neighboring countries.) September 9. Exchange and trade restrictions apply- ing to Zimbabwe (formerly Rhodesia) were lifted. 91 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cameroon is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French f ranc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange trans- actions in French francs between the BEAC and com- mercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign cur- rencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market. A commission of 0.25 per cent is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treas- ury and for the expenses of students. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, Cam- eroon's exchange control measures generally do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely, but all financial transfers in excess of CFAF 500,000 to countries of the French Franc Area must be declared to the authorities for statistical pur- poses. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of Economic Controls and External Finance in the Ministry of Finance. Exchange transactions relating to all countries must be effected through authorized inter- mediaries, i.e., the Postal Adm in is tra t ion and authorized banks. Import licenses are issued by the M in is try of Economy and Planning, while the arrangements for domiciliation of exports require the visa of the M in is try of Finance. Prescription of Currency Since Cameroon is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. 1 The CFA f r anc circulating in Cameroon is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, the Congo, and Gabon. 92 All settlements between Cameroon and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BEAC banknotes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when mailed to the National Directorate of the BEAC in Yaounde by the fore ign correspondents of authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom South Africa are prohibited. The import f rom all sources of certain "controlled" goods requires a special authorization (autorisation speciale d'importa- tion), in addition to an import license. All other imports, irrespective of origin, are subject to licensing when valued at CFAF 500,000 or more, but licenses are issued freely. All import transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 50,000. Import licenses entitle importers to purchase the neces- sary exchange, provided that the shipping documents have been submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments in excess of CFAF 500,000 for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries require prior declaration but are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the fo rm of profits, dividends, and royal- ties are also permitted freely, subject to declaration, when the basic transaction has been approved. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a person a year; any foreign exchange remaining af ter return to Cameroon must be surrendered. For business travel, the corresponding allocation is the equivalent of CFAF 15,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 450,000 a trip. The transfer of rent f rom real property owned in Cameroon by foreign nationals is limited, in principle, to 50 per cent of the income declared for taxation pur- poses, net of tax. Remittances for current repair and management of real property abroad are normally limited to the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 every two or three years. Depending on fam i ly status, the transfer of 20 per cent or 50 per cent of the salary of a foreigner work ing in Cameroon is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution that the transfer takes place within one month of the pay period concerned. Except in the case of foreigners working in Cameroon temporarily, payments of insur- ance premiums to foreign countries are not permitted if the same type of insurance is available in Cameroon. Resident and nonresident travelers to countries outside the French Franc Area may take out up to CFAF 20,000 in BEAC banknotes. Travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area may, subject to prior declaration, take out any amount in BEAC banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coin up to the amount declared by them on entry, or up to CFAF 50,000 if no declaration was made. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Export transactions valued at CFAF 50,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exports to all coun- tries are subject to domiciliation arrangements requiring the visa of the Ministry of Finance. Proceeds from exports to all countries must be collected within 30 days of the date of arrival at their destination, and proceeds received in currencies, other than those of France or an Operations Account country, must be surrendered within a month after collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries f rom foreign assets, must be collected within a month of the due date and surrendered within a month of collection if received in foreign currency. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Cameroon and France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control. Capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Emigrants to coun- tries outside the French Franc Area may transfer abroad their full savings, provided that they have met their tax obligations. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Cam- eroon; these controls relate to the transactions them- CAMEROON selves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of controls over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Cameroon, the measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All foreign securities, foreign exchange, and titles embodying claims on non- residents must be deposited with an authorized inter- mediary, whether they belong to residents or nonresi- dents. Direct investments abroad2 require the prior approval of the M in is t ry of Finance, unless they take the fo rm of a capital increase resulting f rom reinvestment of undis- tributed p ro f i t s; the fu ll or partial liquidation of such investments requires only a report ex post to the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquish- ing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Cameroon3 require prior declara- tion to the Minister of Finance, unless they take the fo rm of a capital increase resulting f rom reinvestment of undistributed p ro f i ts; the Minister has a period of two months f rom receipt of the declaration during which he may request postponement. The fu ll or partial liquidation of direct investments in Cameroon requires only reporting to the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment in Cameroon. Both the mak ing and the l iqu ida t ion of direct investments, whe ther these are Cameroonian investments abroad or foreign investments in Cameroon, must be reported to the Minister of Finance w i th in 20 days following each operation. Direct inves tmen ts are defined as investments imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of fore ign securities in Cameroon requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, and must subsequently be reported to him. Exempt f rom authorization, however, and subject only to an ex post report, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Cameroonian Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, adver t is ing, or o f fe r ing for sale in Cameroon has already been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or ju r id ical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or sub- sidiaries in Cameroon of juridical persons whose regis- tered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, and must subsequently be 2 In c lud ing those made th rough fo r e ign companies that are directly or ind i rec t ly controlled by persons in Cameroon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Cameroon. 3 I n c l u d i ng those made by companies in Cameroon that are directly or ind i rec t ly under fo re ign control and those made by branches or subs id ia r ies in Cameroon of fo re ign companies. 93 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON reported to him. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization, and require only a repo r t: (1) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (2) loans contracted by registered banks and credit institutions. Lending abroad by physical and juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or sub- sidiaries in Cameroon of juridical persons whose regis- tered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and must subsequently be reported to him. The following are, however, exempt from prior authorization, and require only a report: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (3) loans not exceeding CFAF 500,000, provided the maturity does not exceed two years and the rate of interest does not exceed 6 per cent a year. An Investment Code promulgated in 1960 and revised in April 1964 established four categories of fiscal and other benefits which may be granted to both foreign and domestic firms undertaking approved new industrial or agricultural projects in Cameroon. The scope and duration of the benefits vary depending on the size of the investment, the degree to which it helps implement the economic and social development plan, and its importance to national economic growth. Category A permits mainly duty-free entry of capital goods and raw materials required for manufacturing and processing. Under Category B, firms may be entitled to the benefits of Category A and also to exemption for 5 years from the tax on industrial and commercial profits and from various other taxes and fees. Under Category C, large companies may conclude an "establishment agreement" with the Government, under which special conditions for the operations of the company are agreed and the nature and extent of tax concessions are determined. An "establishment agreement" is normally valid for 25 years and defines the legal, economic, and financial guarantees granted to the company, including the assur- ance of stable conditions for financial transfers and marketing of goods. Category D enables firms making investments of particular significance to the national economy to enjoy the benefits of Category C, as well as a guarantee of stability of taxation for up to 25 years. Ordinance No. 73/27 of August 30, 1973 provided that public entities should hold at least one third of the share capital of each banking institution and that the headquarters of each banking institution should be in Cameroon. This ordinance also required banks with foreign majority participation to submit to the monetary authorities information on all their current transactions abroad and to obtain prior approval for any changes in the structure of their equity holdings. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold jewelry in Cameroon. They require the approval of the Directorate of Mines to hold gold in any other form. Such approval is normally given only to indus- trial users, including jewelers. Newly mined gold must be declared to the Directorate of Mines, which author- izes either its exportation or its sale to domestic indus- trial users; exports are made only to France. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Directorate of Mines and the Minister of Finance, which is seldom granted for imports. Exempt from this require- ment are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1980 April 18. Exchange and trade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe (formely Rhodesia) were lifted. 94 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Canada is the Canadian Dollar. The authorities of Canada do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are deter- mined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market; however, the authorities inter- vene from time to time to maintain orderly conditions in that market. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. The closing interbank market rate for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1980 was Can$1.1938 per US$1. Forward exchange rates are similarly deter- mined in the market and it is not the practice of the authorities to intervene. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On March 25, 1952 Canada notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required only for certain drugs; a few agricultural items; certain textile products, cloth- ing, and footwear; certain endangered species of f auna and flora; na tu ral gas; and material and equipment for the production or use of atomic energy. For some agri- cultural items, such as certain dairy products, licenses are generally not being issued. Commercial imports of certain commodities from any source are tightly con- trolled; these include oleomargarine, used automobiles, secondhand aircraft, and certain periodicals. In April 1980 a ban was imposed on imports of crude petroleum from Iran. Exports and Export Proceeds The surrender of the proceeds from exports is not required, and exchange receipts are freely disposable. For supply reasons, the export of a few commodities to all destinations is under export control. These include crude petroleum, certain petroleum products, and nat- ural gas, most of which are sold to the United States. For security reasons, there is export control on strategic goods to all destinations except the United States. All exports to Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Repub- lic and East Berlin, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam are subject to control, although certain goods of Canadian origin may be exported to these destinations under the authority of a general export permit. In addition, certain goods of a commercial nature are subject to control for supply and distribution purposes (e.g., specialty steel and beef to the United States and blood products to all countries). Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No requirements are imposed on exchange payments for, or exchange receipts 'from, invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents. Apart from specific restrictions in the financial, broadcasting, and uranium sectors, inward direct invest- ment is governed by the Foreign Investment Review Act. This stipulates that the acquisition of control over a Canadian business enterprise by persons other than Canadians, or the establishment of a new business by such persons not previously established in Canada, or whose proposed new business is unrelated to their exist- ing business in Canada, will be allowed if it is assessed that such investments are of significant benefit to Canada. A Foreign Investment Review Agency is charged with the review of proposed takeovers and the screening of the establishment of new businesses. There are no controls over outward direct investment, nor over inward or outward portfolio investment. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. However, exports of gold and all other products containing gold to countries named in the Area Control List require an export permit from the Minister of Industry, Trade, and Commerce under the authority of the Export and Import Permits Act. Gold of U.S. origin requires a permit when re-exported to all countries except the United States. Commercial imports of articles containing minor quanti- ties of gold, such as watches, are unrestricted and free of license. Legal tender gold coins with a face value of Can$100 have been issued annually since 1976, and Can$50 "bullion" coins, containing 1 ounce of gold, have also been issued, beginning in 1979. Changes during 1980 January 1. The first phase of the tariff reductions agreed in the Multilateral Trade Negotiations (MTN) came into effect. Duties were removed on civil air- craf t, engines, simulators, and parts thereof, in accord- ance with the GATT agreement on civil aircraft negoti- ated in the MTN; in addition, the general preferential tariff was extended to the People's Republic of China. February 1. A bilateral export restraint agreement covering imports of textiles and clothing in 1980 and 1981 was signed with Malaysia. April 1. A bilateral export restraint agreement cover- ing imports of textiles and clothing in 1980 and 1981 was signed with India. April 23. It was announced that oil companies operating in Canada would not be allowed to purchase 95 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA oil from Iran. In addition, an embargo on exports of military equipment to that country was imposed. June 2. A motion was introduced to phase out preferential tar iffs for the United Kingdom and Ire- land and to adjust such tariffs to the level applicable to imports f rom most favored nations (M FN ). The adjustment was to be implemented in several stages, based on the difference between the preferential rate for the United Kingdom and the MFN rate, and would be completed by January 1982. The preferential tariff for the United Kingdom was also withdrawn for South Africa, with effect from June 3. June 30. Recommendation was made by the Textile and Clothing Board to the Minister of Industry, Trade, and Commerce for the extension of the special protection measures for the textile industry through December 1990. (The recommendation was based on the grounds that the dismantling could cause serious material injury to the local textile and clothing industry.) July 3. The special exporters' declaration, previously required for exports with a value of US$10,000 or more, was revoked. July 24. It was announced that the global quota on footwear would be extended for up to one year beyond the original expiration date of November 30 to allow the antidumping tribunal to review what adjustment had taken place in the industry and if imports continued to pose a threat of in ju ry to Canadian production. The terms of the quota would remain unchanged, but greater flexibility would be provided to imports of specialty products, such as orthopedic footwear and riding boots. August 29. The Tariff Board commenced the review of the d ra ft legislation on customs valuation and its impact on customs duties. The draft legislation was prepared in response to the agreement to implement the new International Agreement on Customs Valuation, to be completed in 1985. October 29. Import duties were removed on numerous products of interest to hobbyists and collectors; the du ty-free entry provisions for universities, schools, and hospitals were also revised. 96 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAPE VERDE (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cape Verde is the Cape Verde Escudo, which is pegged to a weighted basket of cur- rencies representing nine important trading partners. The exchange rate of the Cape Verde escudo in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is fixed daily on the basis of quotations for the U.S. dollar and the other currencies included in the basket. On Decem- ber 31, 1980 the buying and selling > rates for the U.S. dollar were C.V.Esc42.18 and C.V. Esc 42.79, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions are under the con- trol of the Directorate of Foreign Relations and Exchange Control (DRECC), which is a department of the central bank, the Bank of Cape Verde. All imports, exports, and re-exports are subject to licensing, except for transactions not exceeding C.V. Esc 2,500. Foreign exchange transactions, including the surrender of for- eign exchange proceeds, are effected through the cen- tral bank. Prescription of Currency The central bank determines the currency in which export proceeds should be repatriated. Cape Verde has bilateral payments agreements with Angola, Guinea- Bissau, and Sao Tome and Principe. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open demand deposit accounts in local currency. These accounts may be credited only with the proceeds from the sale or receipts of con- vertible currencies, and may be debited for payment of any obligations in Cape Verde. Outward transfers from such accounts may be freely made. Embassies and foreign officials of embassies are required to open spe- cial accounts in foreign currency and in local currency. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to licensing, except for trans- actions not exceeding C.V. Esc 2,500. Licenses, which are issued by the General Directorate of Commerce in the Ministry of Economic Coordination, require the visa of the central bank and are generally valid for 180 days, but are renewable. The provision of foreign exchange is guaranteed when the license is approved by the cen- tral bank. Licenses are granted liberally for imports of medicines, capital goods, and other development-related equipment. Imports of nonessentials are restricted. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require prior authorization. Transfers for tourism are limited to a maximum of C.V. Esc 6,000 a person a year (C.V. Esc 3,000 for children under 15 yea r s ). When traveling accompanied by his family, a resident of Cape Verde may take out in foreign currency the equivalent of C.V. Esc 6,000 plus C.V. Esc 4,000 for each fam i ly member under 15, but the total transfer for each family may not exceed the equivalent of C.V. Esc 20,000. Cape Verdean nationals going on tourist trips abroad are required to buy round- trip tickets in advance and have to make a deposit equivalent to a one-way ticket to the country of desti- nation. This deposit is refunded upon return to Cape Verde. Cape Verdean nationals studying abroad are allowed up to a maximum of C.V. Esc 6,000 on leaving the country, and students who do not hold scholarships are, in addition, entitled to C.V. Esc 5,000 a month. The equivalent of C.V. Esc 20,000 is authorized for each business trip and C.V. Esc 15,000 a trip for medical treatment; these latter amounts may be increased upon presentation of evidence of need. Transfers by foreign technical assistance personnel working in Cape Verde are authorized within the limits specified in the individual contracts. Requests by other foreigners are examined on a case-by-case basis. The export of domestic currency by travelers is prohibited. Foreign travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency but may re-export only the amount of currency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to licensing, except for trans- actions not exceeding C.V. Esc 2,500. Export proceeds must be repatriated within three months from the date of issuance of the license, but this period may be extended. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the central bank. The import of Cape Verdean banknotes is prohibited. Capital Any private capital transaction must be approved in advance by the DRECC, but legally imported capital may be re-exported w i thout l im i ta t ion. The export of resident-owned capital is not norma l ly permitted. Gold Imports, exports, or re-exports of gold either in coin or bars require prior licensing by the monetary authorities. Changes during 1980 January 1. The number of currencies in the exchange rate basket was reduced from 11 to 9. 97 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Central African Republic is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1, free of commission. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates for the currencies concerned in the Paris exchange market. A commission of 0.25 per cent is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treasury and for the expenses of students. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, the exchange control measures of the Central African Republic do not apply to ( 1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and ( 2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Ben in, Cameroon, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control All d ra ft legislation, directives, correspondence, and contracts having a direct or indirect bearing on the finances of the State require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, who has delegated his approval authority to the Director of the Budget. The Office of Foreign Financial Relations in the Ministry of Finance supervises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or sale of foreign securities in the Central African Republic, and inward and outward direct invest- ment. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance, who has delegated some of his approval authority to the BEAC,2 to the authorized banks, and to the Postal Administration. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of Foreign Trade in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, except those for gold, which are issued by the BEAC. 1 The CFA f ranc circulating in the Central Afr ican Republic is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, Chad, Congo, and Gabon. 2 The authority delegated to the BEAC relates to (1) the con trol over the externai position of the banks, (2) the g ran t ing of exceptional travel allocations in excess of the basic allowances, and (3) the control over the repatriation of net export proceeds. 98 Prescription of Currency Since the Central Afr ican Republic is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other countries are usually made in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The principal nonresident accounts are Foreign Accounts in Francs. BEAC banknotes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Bangui by the Bank of France or the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) may be credited freely to Foreign Accounts in Francs. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are suspended. The import f rom all countries of a few commodities that are also produced domestically is prohibited. The import of certain foods tuffs is not authorized unless local pro- duction of these commodities is inadequate. Imports of certain goods, when not originating in a member country of the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC ), may be made only in given ratios to purchases of the local product. The import of firearms is prohibited irrespective of origin. All other imports f rom countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely and without an import license. All other imports f rom EC countries (the original member states) also are free f rom quantitative restrictions. Imports from all countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to licensing within the framework of an annual import program. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import license entitles importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping docu- ments are submitted to the authorized bank. There has been some accrual of arrears on external payments owing to the imposition of statutory ceilings on central bank credit to the Government and an ensuing shortage of domestic currency with which to purchase foreign exchange. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment the approval ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Pay- ments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, divi- dends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Resident tourists traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 50,000 a year for each person; of this allocation, an amount equivalent to CFAF 25,000 may be taken out in foreign bank- notes. Any exchange in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 that remains after return to the Central African Republic must be surrendered. For business travel to foreign countries, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 10,000 a person a day, sub- ject to a maximum of CFAF 100,000 a trip, for travel to certain listed countries; the allocation for business travel to any other foreign country is CFAF 15,000 a day, up to CFAF 150,000 a trip; of this allocation, an amount equivalent to CFAF 5,000 may be taken out in foreign banknotes. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in the Central African Republic is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 10,000 in BEAC banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by any other institute of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Tra- velers to other countries may take out any amount in BEAC banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency and other foreign means of payment up to the amount declared by them on entry; they may reconvert up to CFAF 50,000 in BEAC banknotes into foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are suspended. All exports of cotton, coffee, corn, tobacco, peanuts, palm oil, meat, and diamonds require a license. All other exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. All exports to countries outside this area require licenses, which are issued freely. Proceeds f rom exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatriated within one month f rom the due date; the latter must not be later than 90 days a f ter the arrival of the goods at their destination, unless special authorization is obtained. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered. All export transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank. CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries f rom foreign assets, must be collected within a month of the due date and, if received in foreign currency, surrendered within a month of the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may br ing in any amount of bank- notes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coin (except gold co in) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between the Central Afr ican Republic and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts f rom such countries are permitted freely. All foreign borrowing by the Government or its public and semipublic enterprises, as well as all foreign bor- rowing with a government guarantee, requires the prior approval of the Director of the Budget. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and ou tward direct investment', and over the issuing, adver- tising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in the Central Afr ican Republic; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those controls over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in the Central Afr ican Republic, the measures do not apply to France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments abroad3 require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting f rom reinvestment of und is tr ibu ted profits; the fu ll or partial liquidation of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in the Central Afr ican Repub l ic4 must be declared to the Minister of Finance unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting f rom reinvestment of und is t r ibu ted profits; the Minister 3 Inc lud ing those made th rough fore ign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Cen t ral A f r ican Republic and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in the Central A f r i c an Republic. 4 Inc lud ing those made by companies in the Cen t ral A f r i c an Re- public that are d irec t ly or ind irec t ly under fo re ign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of fo re ign companies in the Central Afr ican Republic. 99 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC has a period of two months f rom receipt of the declara- tion during which he may request postponement. The fu ll or partial liquidation of direct investments in the Central Afr ican Republic must also be declared to the Minister, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment in the Central A f r ican Republic. Both the mak ing and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Central A f r ican Republic investments abroad or foreign investments in the Central African Republic, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days following each operation. Direct invest- ments are defined as investments imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not con- sidered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in the Central African Republic requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in con- nection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee f rom the Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale in the Central A f r ican Republic has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or ju r id ical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in the Central A f r ican Republic, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Central A f r ican Republic of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt f rom this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct invest- ment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between the Central A f r i c an Republic and countries abroad or between fore ign countries, in which those persons or firms take par t; ( 3) loans con- tracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount out- standing of the loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation, unless the total ou ts tand ing amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is less than CFAF 500,000. Lending abroad by physical or juridical persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in the Central Afr ican Republic, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Central Afr ican Republic of ju r id ical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authori- 100 za t ion by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this au thor iza t ion: (1) loans gran ted by registered banks and (2) other loans when the total amount ou ts tand ing of the loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The mak ing of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations w i th in 20 days of the opera- tion except when the amount of the loan granted abroad by the lender is less than CFAF 500,000. Under Law No. 62 /355 of February 19, 1963 (as amended by Ordinance No. 69 /47 of September 2, 1969) and UDEAC Decision No. 18/65 of Decem- ber 14, 1965, indus t r ia l, tou r is t, ag r icu l tu ra l, and m in ing enterprises (both foreign and domestic) established in the Cen t ral A f r i c an Republic are gran ted, under cer ta in conditions, a reduction in duties and taxes on the impo rt of specified equipment; in add i t ion, certain enter- prises receive exemption f rom direct taxes on specified income. The law also provides for three categories of prefer- ential treatment in accordance w i th which fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms inves t ing in new en terpr ises or in the expansion of ex is t ing ones in most sectors of the economy, except the commercial sector. Requests for approval for p re fe ren t ial t r e a tm ent must be subm i t ted to the Minister of Indu s t ry, who is the Ch a i rm an of the Investment Commission which considers the application. If a positive decision has been given by the Commission, the proposed au thor iza- t ion is subm i t ted to the Council of M in is ters. Preferen- t ial t rea tmen ts A and C are g ran ted by decree issued by the Council of Ministers. P re fe ren t ial trea tment B is gran ted by an Act of the Board of Directors of the fo rmer Equa tor ial Customs Un ion upon the recom- menda t ion of the Council of Ministers. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any fo rm in the Cen tral A f r i c an Republic. Impor ts and exports of gold f rom or to any other coun- try require a license, which is seldom gran ted; in prac- tice, impor ts and exports are made by an au thor ized purchasing office. Exempt f rom prior authorization are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury and (2) imports and exports of m a n u f a c t u r ed articles con ta in ing a m inor qu an t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated a r t ic les ). Both licensed and exempt impo r ts of gold are subject to customs declaration. Cer- t a in companies have been o f f ic ia l ly appo in ted as Offices for the Purchase, Import, and Export of Gold and Raw D iamonds. Changes during 1980 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Chad is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange trans- actions in French francs between the BEAC and com- mercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign cur- rencies are also off ic ia l ly posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the rates for the currencies concerned in the Paris exchange market. A commission of 0.25 per cent is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Trea- sury and for the expenses of students. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, Chad's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Ben in, Cameroon, the Central A f r ican Republic, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l t a ). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered fore ign countries. Administration of Control The Office of the Minister of Finance, Buildings, and Supply supervises borrowing and lend ing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of fore ign securi- ties in Chad, and inward and outward direct investment; it also issues import and export authorizations for gold. Exchange control is also administered by the Minister of Finance, who has delegated his approval au thor i ty in part to the authorized banks. All exchange transac t ions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the M in i s t ry of Economy, Planning, and Transportation. Prescription of Currency Since Chad is an Operations Account country, settle- ments with France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA f rancs, French f rancs, or the currency of any other ins t i tu te of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French f rancs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. 1The CFA f ranc c i rcu la t ing in Chad is issued by the B a n q ue des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, Central Afr ican Republic, Congo, and Gabon. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pe r ta in ing to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BEAC bank- notes may be credited free ly to Foreign Accounts in Francs ma in ta ined by the fo re ign correspondent of an authorized bank, provided that the notes are ma i led to the BEAC agency in Chad by the correspondent bank concerned. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom South A f r i ca are proh ib i ted. Impo r ts of whea t, wheat flour, and sugar f r om all sources require licenses. All other imports f rom coun t r ies in the French Franc Area and f rom EC coun tr ies ( the o r ig inal mem- ber s t a t e s ), other than France, may be made free ly. All imports f rom non-EC countries outside the French Franc Area are sub ject to l icens ing in accordance w i th an annu al import p rog ram. This p rog ram and the amount of fore ign exchange required to imp lement it are de term ined by the M in is ter of State in Charge of the Economy, P lann ing, and Transpor ta t ion on the basis of proposals drawn up by the Committee on Impor ts. The impo rt program con ta ins global quotas for imports f rom non-EC coun tr ies ou ts ide the French Franc Area and a special quota for impo r ts of cotton textiles f rom countries w i th abno rmal competitive advan tages. In add i t ion, the program con ta ins global quo tas for impo r ts of wheat, wheat flour, and sugar f rom EC countries, coun t r ies in the French Franc Area, as well as other coun t r ies. Specified impo r ts f rom ne ighbor- ing coun t r ies not belonging to the French Franc Area ( t he L ibyan A rab J am a h i r i y a, N ige r ia, and Sudan) up to a va lue of CFAF 3 million a year in each d irec t ion for a single impo r ter may be made th rough compensa- t ion transac t ions. Ail import transac t ions valued at CFAF 100,000 or more and re la t ing to fo re ign coun t r ies mu st be domiciled w i th an au thor ized bank. Impo rt licenses entitle impo r te rs to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the sh ipp ing documen ts are subm i t ted to the autho- rized bank. Forward cover for impor ts f rom fore ign countries is permitted on ly for specified commodities and requ i res the pr ior approval of the Office of the M in i s ter of F inance, Bu i ld ings, and Supply. There has been some accumu la t ion of a r rea rs on ex ternal paymen ts owing to the impos i t ion of s ta tu to ry ceilings on cen tral bank credit to the Gove rnment and an ensu ing shortage of domestic cu r rency w i th wh ich to purchase fo re ign exchange. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for inv is ib les to France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- m i t ted free ly; those to other countries are subject to 101 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD approval. For many types of payment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Pay- ments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, divi- dends, and royalties are also permitted freely when bona fide. Some current payments, however, may be subject to delay. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a person a trip, for any number of trips a year. For pilgrimage to Mecca, an additional allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 may be granted. For busi- ness travel to foreign countries, there is a daily alloca- tion of the equivalent of CFAF 60,000, with a maximum allocation of the equivalent of up to CFAF 500,000 a person a trip; the Office of the Minister of Finance, Buildings, and Supply may approve additional amounts. Travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 30,000 in BEAC banknotes. Trav- elers to other countries may take out any amount in BEAC banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coin up to the amount declared by them on entry, in addition to amounts remitted from foreign bank accounts. If no declaration has been made, they may take out up to the equivalent of CFAF 150,000, in addi- tion to a maximum of CFAF 30,000 in BEAC bank- notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. All exports to non-EC countries outside the French Franc Area require licenses. Specified exports to the Libyan A rab Jamahiriya, Nigeria, and Sudan may be made through compensation transactions. Exports of cotton are the monopoly of the Societe Cotonniere du Tchad (COTONTCHAD). Export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 50,000. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered. Export proceeds normally must be received within 180 days af ter the arrival of the commodities at their destination. The proceeds must be collected, and be surrendered if received in a foreign currency, within one month of the due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due f rom resi- dents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries f rom foreign assets, 102 must be collected and, if received in foreign currency, be surrendered within two months of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coin (except gold coin) and other foreign means of payment. Foreign banknotes and coin in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 brought in by residents must be exchanged for CFA francs within eight days of their re turn. Capital Capital movements between Chad and France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such coun- tries are permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign coun- tries or nonresidents that are held in Chad by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in Chad. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requ i remen ts that may be applicable or suspended inso- far as they would be contrary to the exchange control regulations) are ma in ta ined over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in Chad; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those controls over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Chad, the measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments abroad2 require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, Buildings, and Supply, irre- spective of the method of financing; the fu ll or partial liquidation of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Minister. Foreign direct investments in Chad3 require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, Buildings, and Supply unless they take the fo rm of a mixed-economy enterprise. The fu ll or partial liquidation of direct investments in Chad must also be declared to the Minister. Both the making and the l iqu ida t ion of direct investments, whether these are Chadian investments abroad or foreign investments in Chad, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enter- prise. 2 Inc lud ing those made th rough foreign companies that are directly or ind i rec t ly controlled by persons in Chad and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Chad. 3 Including those made by companies in Chad that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries in Chad of foreign companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, Buildings, and Supply. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connec- tion with (1) loans backed by a guarantee f rom the Chadian Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, advertising, or offering for sale in Chad has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, Buildings, and Supply. The follow- ing are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of ser- vices abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of the loan does not exceed CFAF 10 million for any one borrower, with an interest rate no higher than 7 per cent and a ma tur i ty of two years or less. The contracting of loans referred to under (3) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Minister within 30 days of the operation. Lending abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the M in- ister of Finance, Buildings, and Supply. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (2) other loans, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 5 million for any one lender. The making of loans referred to under (2) that are free CHAD of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Minister within 30 days of the operation. Commercial banks must ma in ta in in Chad a specified m in imum proportion of their assets. Under the Investment Code of August 26, 1963, any enterprise established in Chad, whether domestic or for- eign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemption from direct taxes on specified income. The Code also provides for three categories of preferential treatment, in accordance with which certain fiscal and other pri- vileges may be accorded to firms investing in specified new industries or in the expansion of existing ones. Requests for preferential trea tment must be submitted to the Minister of State in Charge of the Economy, P lann ing, and Transportation, who, af ter exam in ing the documents, transmits them to the Investment Commis- sion. A f ter an opinion has been given by that Commis- sion, the project is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Gold Chad has issued five gold coins of CFAF 1,000, 3,000, 5,000, 10,000, and 20,000, which are legal tender. Resi- dents who are not producers of gold may not hold unworked gold unless specifically authorized. Imports and exports of gold, whether unworked or refined, require pr ior au thor iza t ion by the Office of the Minister of F inance, Buildings, and Supply and by the Directorate of Mines and Geology as well as the visa of the Foreign Trade Office. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Exports of unworked gold and of raw diamonds (as well as domestic purchases and sales of bo th) are the monopoly of an approved Office for Purchases, Sales, Imports, and Exports (BAV I E ), which is a private company. Unworked gold may be exported only to France. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declara- tion. Changes during 1980 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 103 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Chile is the Chilean Peso. Since June 30, 1979 the exchange rate of the Chilean peso has been set by the Central Bank of Chile at Ch$39 per US$1. The Central Bank may apply an exchange d i f- fe ren t ial of up to 0.5 per cent of the official rate on purchases and sales of exchange. On December 31, 1980 the Central Bank's buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Ch$38.805 and Ch$39.195, respec- tively, per US$1. The Banco del Estado, commercial banks, exchange houses, and other authorized entities may establish freely their exchange rates and commis- sions; their commissions are subject to a value-added tax of 20 per cent. Exchange rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are not officially quoted. Banks and authorized entities operate in such currencies with quota- tions based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. No taxes or subsidies are applied to purchases or sales of fo re ign exchange. Chile formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, with effect from July 27, 1977. Administration of Control The Executive Committee of the Central Bank is responsible for carry ing out currency exchange policy. The Chilean Copper Commission is responsible for the supervision of copper exports and all imports of the copper industry; this supervision has to be exercised in accordance with the general rules enacted by the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Argentina, Bolivia, Braz i l, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Vene- zuela (except those in respect of specified commodities and any imports valued at less than US$3,000 f.o.b. which are effected under a simplified procedure) may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Chile and the central banks of each of the countries concerned, w i th in the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin Amer ican Inte- gration Association (LA IA ). Settlements with the Dominican Republic may be made through clearing accounts established under a reciprocal credit agree- ment. Settlements with other countries take place in specified convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments There is a List of Prohibited Imports, which contains only five commodities. Prior to shipment, all imports valued at over US$10,000 f.o.b. must be registered with the Central Bank, which is empowered to reject import applications that do not comply with applicable regula- tions. Importers may purchase spot exchange as soon as their 104 import applications have been approved and the shipping documents have been received. Imports on deferred payment terms (cobertura diferida) require prior author- ization of the credit terms by the Central Bank. Vir- tually all imports are subject to a registration tax of up to 3 per cent of value, which is offset against the applica- ble import duty. Import duties for most items are at a un i fo rm rate of 10 per cent of c.i.f. value. A value- added tax of 20 per cent is levied on the sum of the c.i.f. value and the import duty. Payments for Invisibles Central Bank authorization is required only for those payments for invisibles that are in excess of the estab- lished limits, and for transactions for which no basic allocation has been set. The authorization is provided upon presentation of appropriate documentation. Resi- dents may purchase up to US$10,000 every 30 days for "extraordinary remittances"; this amoun t, as a general rule, is not cumu la t ive. The established limit for tourist travel (in addition to fa res) is the equivalent of US$10,000 a t r ip for travel to all countries. Insurance activities w i th in the country are reserved to Chilean companies or to authorized foreign companies. There are allowances of up to US$10,000, a month for study abroad and for medical purchases of a noncommercial character. Exports and Export Proceeds All commodities may be freely exported. All exports valued in excess of US$5,000 must be registered with the Operations Division of the Central Bank (with the Chilean Copper Commission in the case of copper), and the proceeds of exports are subject to surrender require- ments. Commercial banks are authorized to purchase all foreign exchange proceeds spot from exporters. Receipts f rom exports of the large copper mines must be deposited in a special foreign currency account at the Central Bank. Most export proceeds subject to surrender require- ments must be repatriated w i th in 300 days from the date of shipment, and surrendered within 10 days thereafter, depending on the commodity being exported; for specified goods this period may be extended. How- ever, exporters are permitted to repurchase up to 10 per cent of export proceeds for travel expenses and certain other purposes, within a ceiling of US$10,000. Proceeds from Invisibles In general, foreign exchange proceeds f rom invisibles must be surrendered only when required by a legal provision. Such is the case for commissions, proceeds from insurance, and other benefits related to foreign trade. There are no similar rules concerning the pro- ceeds from royalties and copyright fees, family remit- tances, the surplus foreign exchange from travel alloca- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tions, proceeds from insurance unrelated to trade, and other income earned abroad. Capital Capital inflows are free, but most outflows are restricted. All new foreign borrowing or refinancing of existing credits by commercial banks requires prior approval by the Central Bank, with the exception of the taking up of lines of credit with foreign correspondents. Foreign capital may enter Chile under one of three different arrangements, depending on the purpose and type of the investment, as follows: (1) Article 14 of Decree No. 471 of October 17, 1977 stipulates that capital brought into the country in the form of foreign exchange (aporte de capital) may be sold freely through authorized banks when the investor (individual or corporation, national or fore ign) has registered the transaction with the Central Bank. Capital can be repatriated after three years, but if it originated in a foreign borrowing, it may be repatriated if it has remained in Chile for an average duration of at least 24 months.1 The interest rate must not exceed specified limits. Repatriation normally is allowed only in accordance with the amortization schedule established at the time of registration. Accelerated payments or extensions of pay- ment are subject to special authorization. Foreign borrowing with average maturities of less than five and a half years is subject to reserve requirements, as follows: 15 per cent for average maturities of less than four years and 10 per cent for average maturities of more than four years but under five and a half years. (2) Article 15 of the same decree authorizes the Central Bank to make exemptions to the general rules enacted by it concerning the inflow and outflow of cap- ital or credits. (3) Decree-Law No. 600 of July 7, 1974 (amended by Decree-Law No. 1748 of March 18, 1977), the Foreign Investment Law, establishes a regime for long- term capital investment. Authorization to make a for- eign exchange investment in Chile is granted by the Foreign Investment Committee through a fixed-term contract containing undertakings regarding the phasing of the investment program that will normally not exceed eight years for mining and three years for other projects. Investments of less than US$5 million may be approved by the Executive Secretary of the Committee, with a few exceptions. There are no limitations on profit remit- tances. Capital may be repatriated after three years. Foreign investors can opt for a guaranteed 49.5 per cent per annum total corporation income tax over a period of ten years, or may subject themselves to the tax system applicable to domestic corporations (currently 48.5 per cen t ). Any foreign credits involved must be on terms authorized by the Central Bank. Foreign capital that entered Chile prior to the promulgation of Decree-Law 1Use of capital for the purpose of repaying debts to foreign banks is not considered to imply repatriation within a shorter period of time. CHILE No. 600 and which did not opt to be subject to that law continues to be subject to the regulations prevailing on the date of entry. Gold Chile has issued three types of gold coins, which are not legal tender. Residents may freely hold and nego- tiate gold in any form in Chile. Imports and exports of gold are unrestricted, subject to compliance with the normal formalities for import and export transactions, including registration with the Central Bank. Changes during 1980 January 4. It was announced that the exchange rate would remain fixed indefinitely at Ch$39 per US$1. January 14. Central Bank Resolution No. 1.368 required that sales of foreign exchange for payments for imports for the free zone made after the prescribed period be subject to a 0.005 per cent daily surcharge (the same surcharge applying to regular import pay- ments made after the prescribed period). January 23. The Central Bank increased the limit on commercial banks' monthly rate of utilization of credits under Article 14 of the International Exchange Law from US$ 1 million or 5 per cent of capital and surplus, whichever is greater, to US$2 million or 5 per cent of capital and surplus, whichever is greater. Subsequently, on April 1 the limits were eliminated altogether. April 3. Commercial banks operating in foreign exchange were authorized to extend credit denominated in foreign exchange to any other bank in the country. (Previously, these credits could only be granted to for- eign banks .) May 7. Branches of foreign banks were authorized to borrow f rom their home offices or from branches in other countries for the purpose of extending credit denominated in foreign exchange and registered under Article 14. May 28. The Central Bank authorized banks to extend credit in foreign exchange to residents abroad as long as the value of the credits did not exceed the banks' foreign exchange reserves. (The limit was changed in June and applied only to credits extended to nonbank ins t i tu t ions .) June 4. Short-term import financing credit was lib- eralized by means of the Central Bank extending from 120 days to 150 days the time within which exchange cover must be secured for import payments not on a deferred basis. June 6. The Central Bank reduced from 25 per cent to 15 per cent the reserve requirement on banks' loans with average maturity of less than three years. June 18. The Central Bank authorized development banks to effect all types of foreign exchange transactions except the holding of demand deposits denominated in foreign currencies. July 15. Decree-Law No. 3.345 authorized banks and financial institutions to acquire control of foreign banks 105 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE and to hold a majority interest in foreign banks any- where in the world. July 16. The Central Bank raised the permissible limit for tourist travel (in addition to fares) and extraordinary remittances from US$3,000 to US$10,000 a trip, or its equivalent in foreign currency. July 16. The Central Bank raised the max imum value of imports which can enter Chile under a simplified import registration procedure (Planilla de Venta de Cambio) from US$3,000 to US$10,000. In add i t ion, import payments were allowed to exceed the original registration value by up to US$10,000 without the need of approval from the Central Bank. July 30. The Central Bank extended the repayment period for export credits and the time allowed for ship- ping merchandise under export credit arrangements. For export credits obtained internally, the time limit was extended from 150 days for payment and 180 days for shipping to 210 days for both. For credit obtained externally the time limit of 180 days for payment and shipping was extended to 210 days. The period under which exchange cover must be secured for import pay- ments not on a deferred basis was also extended from 150 days to 180 days. July 30. The Central Bank established a minimum level of US$25,000 for the registration of capital inflows under Article 14. August 24. The Central Bank authorized residents to freely purchase or sell among themselves any foreign currency provided that such transactions were made on an occasional basis and without the use of any publicity intended to attract the public. 106 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement1 The currency of the People's Republic of China is the Renminbi and its unit is the yuan. The exchange rate of the renminbi is adjusted in accordance with movements in the value of a basket of internationally traded curren- cies, weighted with reference to their importance in China's external transactions and the trends in their relative values. The yuan-U.S. dollar rate is calculated directly from the value of the basket, while rates for 24 other currencies2 are determined f rom the cross rates. The exchange rate is published daily by the State General Administration for Exchange Control; on December 31, 1980 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Y 1.5265 and Y 1.5341, respec- tively, per US$1. Published rates for currencies other than those that are impor tant in China's international transactions are changed whenever the calculated rate diverges from the previously published rate by 1 per cent; for the important currencies, such as the U.S. dollar and the Japanese yen, a smaller marg in of 0.5 per cent is applied. All spot transactions are performed at this official exchange rate.3 Forward exchange rates are published for 15 curren- cies.4 China does not apply a system of forward pre- miums and discounts, but instead uses the spot rate plus a forward charge. Forward transactions are only permitted in connection with an under ly ing trade trans- action. When banks sell renminbi forward, a charge is levied; when they buy, no charge is levied except for the Japanese yen and the Swiss franc. Rates are given for !Qn August 11, 1980 China fo rma l ly notified the Fund, under Ar t i- cle IV, Section 2 ( a ), of the exchange a r rangemen ts it intends to ma in ta in. 2 Aus t ra l ian dollars, Au s t r i an schillings, Belgian f ranc s, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche m a rk, Finnish m a r k k a a, French francs, Ghana ian cedis, Guinean sylis, Hong Kong dollars, Iranian rials, Italian lire, Japanese y en, Mali f ranc s, Netherlands guilders, Norweg ian k rone r, Pak is tan rupees, pounds sterling, Sierra Leonean leones, Singapore dollars, Swedish k rone r, Swiss f ranc s, and Tanzania shillings. 3 On Janua ry 1, 1981 China in t roduced an in te rnal settlement rate for fore ign t rade transactions. All na t ional en terpr ises engaged in fore ign trade are requ i red to buy fo re ign exchange f rom the Bank of China at an in ternal settlement ra te of Y 2.8 per US$1. This ra te is fo rmed by adding to the official ra te an "equalization price" for balancing export and impo rt prof i ts and losses, and applies to all national enterprises and corporations engaged in trade, as well as to receipts and expend i tu res in fo re ign exchange for trade-related transac- tions in invisibles, such as shipping and insurance. The official rate remains in effect for all other transactions in invisibles and for all settlements w i th nonres iden ts that are denom ina ted in renm inb i. Also on Janua ry 1, 1981 the Bank of China established a new exper imen tal t rad ing system for fo re ign exchange in a few areas, such as Be i j ing, Guangdong, Hefe i, Shanghai, and T ian j in. National en terpr ises hold- ing fo re ign exchange earned th rough the system of re ten t ion quo tas are pe rm i t ted to sell th is fo re ign exchange to other na t ional en te r- prises that have a quo ta for spend ing fo re ign exchange. The Bank of China acts as a broker and levies a commission of 0.1-0.3 per cent on both sides of the t ransac t ion. The Bank of Ch ina does not ope ra te in th is m a rk et on its own account or p rov ide fo re ign exchange or take up positions in fo re ign exchange. Most transac t ions are in U.S. dollars, but Hong Kong dollars and pounds s te r l ing are also t raded. All transac t ions in th is ma rket are spot transac t ions and are con- ducted at the in te rnal se t t lement ra te of Y 2.8 per US$1. 4 Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian f r an c s, C an ad i an do l lars, Dan ish k rone r, deu tsche m a rk, French f ranc s, Hong Kong do l la r s, I t a l i an l i r e, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, No rweg ian k ron e r, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss f ranc s, and U.S. dollars. one to six months; transactions can be renewed for a further six months, but for no longer than one year. Forward charges reflect interest rates and trends in inter- national markets in the currencies concerned. Administration of Control The State General Administration for Exchange Con- trol (SGAEC), a government department under the direct control of the State Council, is responsible for controlling all foreign exchange transactions, in accor- dance with state policy. Where the SGAEC does not have a bureau, the local branch of the Bank of China acts as an agent for the SGAEC. Other banks and finan- cial institutions ( f or example, the Hong Kong and Shang- hai Banking Corporation, the Standard Chartered Bank, the Overseas Chinese Bank ing Corporation, and the Bank of East Asia in Shanghai) may handle designated trans- actions with the approval of the SGAEC. Since Octo- ber 1979 the China International Trust and Investment Corporation (CITIC) is authorized to conduct transac- tions connected with investments of fore ign capital in China. Individuals and institutions may hold foreign exchange but may not deal in it or conduct arbitrage operations. Foreign exchange transactions are generally made in accordance with a fore ign exchange plan. That part of the foreign exchange plan dealing with foreign trade is prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. The Minis- try of Foreign Economic Relations prepares the part dealing with external assistance and loans by China; the foreign exchange budgets of other government depart- ments are prepared by the Ministry of Finance. The Bank of China draws up the section of the plan covering local and provincial non trade transactions, receipts f rom overseas Chinese, and ind iv idual receipts. The overall foreign exchange plan is coordinated and balanced by the SGAEC, and after it has been reviewed and recon- ciled with other plans by the State Planning Commission, it is submitted to the State Council for approval. Fol- lowing approval, the plan is sent back to the various localities and ministries for implementation. The Bank of China is responsible for supervising the implementa- tion of the foreign exchange plan. The fore ign exchange plan, in principle, covers all transactions, including those with countries with which China ma in ta ins bilateral payments agreements. The annual plan is divided into quarterly plans, and at the end of each quar ter, the State P l ann ing Commission reviews the imp lemen ta t ion of the plan and determines whether corrections are necessary. That part of the foreign exchange plan dealing with trade is broken down by commodity. A revision of the plan could be made on the basis of changes in fore ign trade prices. Special exchange control regulations apply to special economic zones and border regions. 107 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA Prescription of Currency Trade transactions with Albania, Bu lgar ia, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hun- gary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mon- golia, Poland, Roman ia, the U.S.S.R. and Viet Nam are expressed in Swiss f rancs at the official exchange rate and are settled through bilateral paymen ts arrangements. In normal circumstances, imbalances emerging toward the end of each year are covered by increased deliveries of goods. Noncommercial transactions are settled on a current basis in convertible currencies, except for such transactions with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and Roman ia, which pass th rough the c lear ing account. Payments to and f rom countries with which China has bilateral payments agreements5 are made in currencies and in accordance with the procedures set fo r th in those agreements. In other cases, where there are no specific regu la t ions prescribing the currencies to be used in transactions, they are determined by bilateral contract. Bilateral trade and payments agreements are of three k inds: Type A agreements are designed to ensure balanced trade and include for each good b ind- ing on both parties, itemized quantitative commodity lists or fore ign exchange quota lists for those commodi- ties which cannot be expressed in quan t i ta t ive terms. Most arrangements are of this type. Type B agreements (those with Gu inea, I ran, Sierra Leone, and the Syrian A rab Republic) provide such b ind ing itemized lists only for the principal goods traded by the parties and also include nonb ind ing lists of secondary goods. Type C agreements (those with Cyprus, Ghana, and Greece) contain lists of goods only for i l lus tra t ive purposes. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents6 in China for a short period may open nonresident accounts with the Bank of China. Jo int ventures may also open fore ign exchange accounts and use them to make payments abroad. With the permis- sion of the Bank of China, fo re ign banks may hold convertible renm inbi accounts in connection with com- mercial or noncommercial transactions. Renm inbi may be purchased for such an account only on presentation of documentary evidence that the money will be used in the designated transaction. The Bank of China may check any use made of renminbi in such accounts. Imports and Exports The primary responsibility for the conduct of trade rests with the M in i s t ry of Foreign Trade and the Import and Export A f fa i rs Adm in is t ra t ion Commission (an 5 Ch ina m a i n t a i ns b i la te ral p aym en ts ag reemen ts w i th the fo l low ing Fund membe r s: A f g h a n i s t a n, Bang ladesh, Cyp rus, Democra t ic Kam- puchea, Egyp t, F in land, France, G h a n a, G u i n e a, I r a n, Nepa l, P ak i- stan, Romania, Sierra Leone, Sri Lanka, Syrian A rab Republic, and Viet N am. It also m a in t a ins ag reemen ts w i th A lban ia, B u l g a r i a, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Ge rman Democratic Republic, Hunga ry, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, and U.S.S.R. 6 Nonres iden ts include overseas Chinese and residents of fo re ign coun tr ies, Hong Kong, and Macao. Foreign embassies are also included. 108 organization under the State Counc i l ), which issues the licenses required for all import and export transactions. Most foreign trade is conducted by state foreign trade corporations under the direct leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Other en t i t ies may conduct fore ign trade only if authorized by license to do so by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and the SGAEC. The fo re ign trade activities of en t i t ies that are not under the jur is- diction of the M in i s t ry of Foreign Trade are supervised and coordinated by the Import and Export A f fa i rs Adm in is tra t ion Commission. Foreign trade corporations have branches in prov- inces, cities, and au tonomous reg ions and are und er the dual leadersh ip of the local au tho r i t ies and the M in i s t ry of Foreign Trade. Localities and m in i s t r i es other than the M in is t ry of Foreign Trade may also, a f t er registra- tion, pa r t ic ipa te d irec t ly in fo re ign trade. Local fo r e ign trade corpora t ions have been established in a number of provinces, mun ic ipa l i t ies, and au tonomous regions. Ministries have also been pe rm i t ted to establish fo re ign trade corporations. All enterprises, except registered state-owned fo re ign trade corporations, need a license f r om the local fo r e ign t rade bu reau before they can t rade or hold fo re ign exchange. Part of the proceeds of some expor ts may be retained in a fore ign exchange deposit or foreign exchange quota account w i th the Bank of Ch ina .7 All other fo re ign exchange ea rn ings f rom exports must be repatriated and surrendered to the Bank of Ch ina, unless a specific exception is gran ted by the SGAEC. Before us ing their ho ld ings of fo re ign exchange, en terpr ises other than the fo re ign t rade corpora t ions must seek the approval of the SGAEC. The B ank of Ch ina provides fo re ign exchange for impo r ts on the basis of import licenses and approval by the SGAEC. En terpr ises must sell their fore ign exchange earnings f rom invisibles to the Bank of Ch ina, except for the po r t ion they may re ta in in accordance w i th specific regu la t ions. Foreign t rade is conduc ted in accordance w i th the annu al fo re ign t rade p lan. Th is p lan is d rawn up by the M in is try of Foreign Trade in c o n j u n c t i on w i th the State P l ann ing Commission. The fo rmer sends direc- tives on the p repa ra t ion of the p lan to all fo re ign t rade corporations and to the fo re ign t rade bu reaus in the provinces, mun ic ipa l i t ies, and au tonomous regions; these, in tu rn, meet with other interested en t i t ies and prepare lists of needed impor ts and goods ava i lab le for export. The p lans prepared at the local level are coord i- nated and balanced by the M in i s t ry of Foreign Trade and the State P lann ing Commission at na t ional fo re ign trade p l ann ing conferences. The State Counc il g ran ts final approval to the fore ign trade p lan. Goods which can be produced domestically, or for which adequa te domestic subs t i tu tes are available, are 7 From J a n u a ry 1, 1981 such f o r e i gn exchange may be sold to o ther au tho r ized en te rp r ises t h r o u gh the Bank of Ch ina (see foo t- note 3, above ). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution not included in the import plan. Priority is given in the import plan to goods* that cannot be produced domes- tically in adequate quantities and those that are urgently needed by the State, especially for key projects. In the case of some goods that are not produced in adequate quantities but for which a good foreign market exists, part of the production may be allocated to export. The import and export of weapons, ammun i t ion, and explosives; radio receivers and transm i t ters; Chinese currency; and manusc r ip ts, p r in ted and recorded mate- rials, and films that are deemed to be h a rm f ul to the Chinese Government, economy, culture, or morality are prohibited. In addition, the import of poisons, narcotic drugs, diseased animals, and plants is pro- hibited, as is the export of valuable documents and books, rare animals and plants, and precious metals and artifacts made from these metals. The customs regulations in force are the Provisional Customs Law of the People's Republic of China and the Customs Import and Export Tar iff of the People's Republic of China. Except for imports into Tibet, China applies a two-column import ta r i ff w i th a general rate and a m in imum rate. The m in imum rate is applied to goods from those countries with which China has con- cluded reciprocal commercial treaties.8 The general ra te applies to all other countries. Import duties are levied on the c.i.f. value of goods. Duties on du t iab le impo r ts under the general ta r i ff fa ll into 25 categories, rang ing from 7.5 per cent to 400 per cent. Duties under the m in imum ta r i ff fall into 21 categories, rang ing f rom 5 per cent to 200 per cent. No special groups of importers are exempted f rom pay ing import du ty, except manu fac tu re rs in special export zones. Imports of nonluxury goods in to Tibet f rom abroad are subject to a separate system of customs duties estab- lished by the Tibetan People's Government. The t a r i f f, however, only applies to goods imported directly in to Tibet for use there. It does not apply to imports of other provinces, mun ic ipa l i t ies, and autonomous reg ions through Tibet or to imports through Tibet by mail or brought in as part of the luggage carr ied by travelers or to luxury items imported in to Tibet; such impo r ts are subject to the regular Chinese t a r i f f. In addition to customs duties, the Indus t r ial and 8 These coun t r ies are as fo l lows (c lass if ied by geograph ical a r e a s ): ( 1) Africa: B en in, B u r u n d i, Came roon, Cen t ral A f r i c an Repub l ic, Chad, Congo, Egyp t, E q u a t o r i al Gu in e a, E th iop i a, Gabon, The Gamb ia, G h a n a, Gu in e a, K e n y a, L ibyan A rab J am a h i r i y a, Madaga s- car, Ma l i, M a u r i t a n i a, Morocco, N i g e r i a, Rw a n d a, Sao Tome and Pr inc ipe, S ierra Leone, Somalia, Sud an, Tanzan ia, T u n i s i a, Z a i r e, and Zamb ia. (2) Americas: A r g e n t i n a, B r a z i l, Canada, Ch i le, Cuba, E c u a d o r, Jama ica, Mexico, P e ru, and Un i t ed States. (3) Asia: Bang ladesh, B u rm a, Cyp ru s, I r a q, J a p a n, J o r d a n, Demo- cratic K am p u c h e a, Democ ra t ic People's R epub l ic of Ko rea, Lebanon, Mongolia, Nepal, P ak i s t an, Ph i l ipp ines, S ingapo re, S ri L a n k a, Sy r i an Arab Repub l ic, Tha i land, Tu rk ey, Viet Nam, Yemen A r ab R e p u b l i c, and People's Democ ra t ic Repub l ic of Yemen. (4) Europe: A lban ia, Au s t r i a, Be lg ium, D enm a rk, F in l and, France, Ge rman Democratic Repub l ic, Federal Repub l ic of G e rm a n y, Greece, I re land, I ta ly, Lux embou rg, Ne the r land s, No rway, Spain, Sweden, Sw i tze r land, Un i ted K ingdom, U.S.S.R., and Yugo s lav ia. (5) Oceania: Au s t ra l ia and New Zealand. PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA Commercial Consolidated Tax (a tu rnov er tax that is applied also to other commod i t ies) is levied on impo r ts in accordance with the list con ta ined in the D r a ft Provi- sions of the Indus t r ial and Consolidated Tax of the People's Republic of Ch ina. There are no export du t ies. In the case of compensa t ion trade, a f ter imported materials and equipment have been paid fo r, net fore ign exchange earnings accrue to the State. Of this total, 15 per cent may be re ta ined and the rest must be sur- rendered. One ha lf of the re ta ined amoun t, or 7.5 per cent, remains w i th the en te rp r ise, wh i le the other half is retained by the locality if the enterprise is controlled at that level, or divided equa l ly between the re levant m in is try and the loca l i ty if the en te rp r ise is u n d er cen tral leadership. In other cases, the percen tage of export earnings that can be re ta ined varies w i th the en terpr ise. Special export zones have been set up in Shenzhen and Zhuha i. Foreigners and, in p a r t i c u l a r, overseas Chinese are pe rm i t ted to open fac to r ies in these zones for m a n u f a c t u r i ng p roduc ts for export ma rke t s. Impor ts into such zones in t end ed for process ing and re-export are exempt f rom impo rt du ty. Profits generated in the zones are taxed at 15 per cent, as opposed to 30 per cent for j o i nt ven tu res w i t h in Ch ina. Invisibles All fore ign exchange e a rn ings of Ch inese c i t izens, fore ign na t iona l s, or stateless persons res id ing in Ch ina, received f rom abroad or f r om the Hong Kong and Macao regions must be su r rende red to the Bank of Ch ina, except any po r t ion pe rm i t ted to be re ta ined by the State. If fo re ign exchange f u n ds of Chinese resi- den ts derived f r om emp loyment ab road, roya l ty pay- ments, f i n a n c i al awa rds, r e t i r em e nt pay or t e rm i n a t i on pay, or f o r e i gn exchange kept abroad or in the Hong Kong and Macao reg ions be fo re October 1, 1949 is sold to the B ank of C h i n a, the owner is p e rm i t t ed to r e t a in a por t ion of it in c o n v e r t i b le cu r r en cy acco rd ing to the per- centage p resc r ibed by the State. In the case of proceeds of unb locked assets in the Un i ted States, 30 per cent may be r e t a in ed; the re ta ined fo r e ign exchange mu st be deposited w i th the Bank of Ch ina. Such fo re ign exchange depos i ts may be sold to the Bank of C h i na or rem i t ted out of Ch ina t h r o u gh the B ank of Ch in a, or taken out of Ch ina aga inst ce r t i f ica t ion by the Bank of China. Foreign s ta ff membe rs and emp loyees, as we ll as those f r om the Hong Kong and Macao reg ions ,0 may r em it salaries and o ther income ea rned in Ch ina a f t er payment of taxes.10 P ro f i ts of j o i nt v e n t u r es may be rem i t ted a f ter t a x a t i o n, in accordance w i th fo re ign exchange regu la t ions; such r em i t t a n c es are sub ject to the approval of the local b ranch of the Bank of Ch ina and should be paid th rough the fo re ign exchange account of the j o i nt ven tu re. Rem i t ted p ro f i ts are sub ject to an add i t ional tax of 10 per cent. 9 Inc ludes e n t e r p r i s es w i th ove rseas and f o r e i gn Ch inese cap i ta l. 10 From M a r ch 1, 1981 such r em i t t an c es were l im i ted to 50 per cent of net ea rn ing s. 109 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA If a Chinese resident wishes to spend money on travel abroad, receive his pension abroad, or remit money abroad, he must apply to the local SGAEC bureau for approval. Such factors as the individual's normal income and expenditure are examined to determine if approval is to be granted for remittances. If permission is granted to travel abroad, a Chinese resident is normally allowed to take a reasonable amount of foreign exchange to cover expenses for transport and subsistence; any sur- plus must be repatriated and surrendered to the Bank of China. However, foreign exchange belonging personally to such residents may be retained in a Bank of China deposit account when the individual returns to China. There is no tax on travel. A Chinese resident who retires and emigrates is normally permitted to receive his pen- sion abroad but he is not normally permitted to remit the proceeds f rom any assets he may sell in China. Foreign exchange remitted or brought in by nonresi- dents may be converted into either Chinese currency or foreign exchange certificates denominated in yuan. Foreign exchange certificates can be used solely by non- residents in hotels, restaurants, and shops serving non- residents, for purchasing airline tickets and through t ra in or ship fares to Hong Kong and Macao, and for international telecommunications charges and parcel post charges. Persons entering China must declare their holdings of foreign currency and may take out of China any unused foreign currency on presentation of the import declaration fo rm issued by the customs. The import and export of Chinese banknotes is prohibited. Foreign exchange certificates may be imported, but export is subject to the provision of documen ta t ion showing that it has been acquired legitimately. Chinese residents must show their authorization to export foreign currency at the border. Joint ventures are required to insure themselves with Chinese insurance companies. Capital A policy of permitting foreign borrowing on a planned basis has been instituted. Loans for vital projects or projects which have a rapid rate of return are given priority approval. All sections and departments wishing to borrow abroad must prepare a plan showing the k inds of imports for which the loan is intended. Such plans must show the amount of foreign exchange needed and how much of this will be earned and how much bor- rowed from abroad. All such plans are submitted to the State Planning Commission, which reviews them in cooperation with the Foreign Investment Control Com- mission. If the imports are for new construction, the plans are also reviewed by the State Construction Com- mission. (All three Commissions are under the supervi- sion of the State Council.) Approval of foreign loans is based on a consideration of the need for foreign capital, the ability of the borrow- ing unit to repay, and the overall debt-service ratio of China. Most loans are made through the Bank of China 110 or, in the case of some loans to provinces or enterprises that are able to repay the loan themselves, with Bank of China guarantees. External borrowing plans by entities other than the Bank of China must be submitted to the SGAEC and the Foreign Investment Control Commis- sion for exam ina t ion and forwarding to the State Coun- cil for approval, before loans from abroad or f rom the Hong Kong and Macao regions can be incurred. Resi- dent organizations may not issue securities for foreign exchange unless approved by the State Council. All fore ign investment projects are subject to the approval of the Foreign Investment Control Commis- sion. The policy with respect to foreign capital is designed both to make up the insufficiency of domestic capital and to facilitate the introduction of modern technology and management. All foreign exchange earned by jo int ventures should be kept in a Bank of China account. Transfers of capital require SGAEC approval. When a jo int ven tu re is wound up, the net claims belonging to the foreign investor may be remitted with SGAEC approval through the fore ign exchange account of the jo int ven tu re. Alternatively, the fore ign investor may apply for repayment of his paid-in capital. Profits of jo int ventures, besides firms in special export zones and those exploiting petroleum, natural gas, and other resources, are subject to tax at 33 per cent (30 per cent basic rate p lus a 10 per cent surcharge on the assessed t a x ). As men t ioned above, rem i t ted profits are subject to an additional tax of 10 per cent. A joint ven ture scheduled to operate for ten years or more may be exempted f rom income tax in the first year of operation and be allowed a 50 per cent reduction for the second and th ird years. Joint ventures in low-profit operations, or located in remote, economically under- developed outlying areas, may be allowed a further 15-30 per cent reduction in income tax for the follow- ing ten years. A par t ic ipant in a jo int venture which reinvests its share of profit in China for a period of not less than five years may obtain a refund of 40 per cent of the tax paid on the reinvested amount. Some jo int ven tures concluded before the passing of tax regulations in August 1980 are subject to taxes at d i f fe rent rates. Foreign investment by Chinese enterprises is subject to approval; profits thereby earned must be sold to the Bank of China, except for a portion which may be retained locally as a work ing balance. Chinese dip- lomatic and commercial organizations abroad and under- takings abroad and in Hong Kong and Macao are required to draw up annual foreign exchange plans. Gold The People's Bank of China buys and sells gold and has central control over dealings in gold and silver. Sales of gold and silver are restricted to pharmaceutical, industrial, and other approved uses. Private persons may hold gold, but may not trade or deal in it. The amount of gold, gold products, silver, and silver products that may be imported is unlimited, but must be declared ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution on entry. When exporting gold or silver, the exporter must present an import document from the customs or a Bank of China export permit. Nonresidents may buy gold and silver and gold and silver products at special stores, but must present the invoice when exporting them. Changes during 1980 January 5. The State Council issued a decree pro- hibiting the use of foreign exchange for mak ing pay- ments within China. (Although formally forbidden, in practice, foreign currency had previously been accepted in some retail outlets in Guangdong.) January 31. Under the provisions of an agreement of May 11, 1979, the United States removed restrictions on Chinese assets in the United States blocked since December 17, 1950, and China removed similar restric- tions on U.S. assets blocked since December 28, 1950. February 1. Following ratification by the U.S. Con- gress, the China-U.S. Trade Agreement of July 7, 1979 went into effect. Under the agreement, the United States reduced duties on a number of imports f rom China, and the two parties agreed to grant each other most-favored- nation treatment and to facilitate business transactions between the two countries. February 1. Import duties were reduced on a wide range of items, including cereals, beans, and edible oils; simultaneously, the only existing export duties (on peanuts, peanut oil, and peppermint oil and extract) were abolished. February 15. The General Administration of Customs of the People's Republic of China was established, with the responsibility of formulating policies, laws, and regulations concerning customs administration in China. March 1. The purchase price of gold by the People's Bank of China was raised from Y 3.04 a gram to Y 13 a gram. (The price of silver was simultaneously raised from Y O .l a gram to Y 0.2 a gram, and that of silver dollars from Y 2.5 a piece to Y 5 a piece.) PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA April 1. Foreign exchange certificates were intro- duced for use by nonresidents in hotels, shops, and foreign trade centers serving nonresidents exclusively, and for the payment of plane fares, through train or ship fares to Hong Kong and Macao, international telecommunications charges, and parcel post charges. April 2. The General Administration of Customs announced that trade between the mainland and Taiwan would be treated as interregional trade. Products pur- chased directly from Taiwan or through affiliates in Hong Kong, Macao, or elsewhere would be free of du ty when entering the People's Republic of China, whether shipped directly or transshipped. Export duties and tonnage dues on such trade were also eliminated. April 17. The Executive Board of the IMF decided that the Government of the People's Republic of China represented China in the the Fund. May 15. The Executive Board of the IBRD decided that the Government of the People's Republic of China represented China in the IBRD, IDA, and IFC. June 20. Border trade between the Tibetan Autono- mous Region and Bhu tan, Burma, Ind ia, Nepal, and Sikkim was reintroduced. June 30. The General Administration for the Inspec- tion of Import and Export Commodities started opera- tions. September 10. An income tax law for jo int ventures was adopted; the law introduced a tax of 10 per cent on remittances of profits of jo int ventures. November 25. With the approval of the State Coun- cil, the Tibetan Autonomous Region People's Govern- ment reduced or abolished import duties on about 90 per cent of commodities imported into Tibet. However, duties on imports of luxury goods into Tibet would remain at the unified rates. December 18. The State Council adopted provisional regulations for the control of foreign exchange to come into effect on March 1, 1981. I ll ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Colombia is the Colombian Peso. The authorities of Colombia follow a policy of adjust- ing the peso in small amounts at relatively short inter- vals, taking into account (1) the movements of prices in Colombia relative to those in its ma jor trad ing partners; (2) the level of Colombia's foreign exchange reserves; (3) export performance; and (4) Colombia's overall balance of payments position. Exchange sur- render and foreign payments are generally effected through the medium of exchange certificates, which are traded in the official market at the official rate and in the stock exchange at varying rates of discount. On December 31, 1980 the buying and selling rates in the official market for the U.S. dollar, the in terven t ion cur- rency, were Col$50.92 and Col$51.12, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other cur- rencies1 are also officially quoted, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. All exchange transactions are effected through the Bank of the Republic (the central bank) or the authorized banks. There are other effective exchange rates which result from (1) a 13 per cent tax on coffee export proceeds; (2) tax credit certificates being granted at four different percentage rates for most export proceeds; (3) a dis- count of about 5 per cent on surrender of exchange certificates issued against proceeds from exports of merchandise other than coffee and invisibles, prior to the 120-day redemption period; and (4) the imposition of remittance tax at two different rates on certain service payments. The peso equivalent of the Government's exchange receipts from the export tax on coffee is credited to the Treasury's Special Exchange Account at an accounting rate applied by the Bank of the Repub- lic; the Government purchases exchange for all public debt payments and other expenditures included in the national budget at the same exchange rate. The Bank of the Republic stands ready to sell exchange warrants (titulos canjeables por certificados de cambio, titulos de divisas, or certificados de futuro) to the public, against payment in pesos at the certificate market selling rate on the date of issue. These warrants, which are expressed in U.S. dollars and have a maturity of six months or one year, are negotiable and may also be exchanged for exchange certificates, provided that the holder presents an exchange license. Within their period of validity, warran ts may also be sold to the Bank of the Republic for pesos, at the certificate mar- ket buying rate on the date of repurchase. Warrants 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and Venezuelan bolivares. 112 bear interest at 14 per cent per annum. Warrants held until after maturity cease to bear interest and can no longer be converted into exchange certificates but may be resold to the Bank at the certificate market rate on the maturity date. Administration of Control All imports and exports require prior registration at the Colombian Institute of Foreign Trade ( INCOMEX ). Exchange for payments must be purchased through the Bank of the Republic or the commercial banks, with an approved exchange license issued by the Exchange Office of the Bank of the Republic; however, payments for specified current transactions, when made through credit institutions, do not require prior exchange licenses but must be submitted to the Bank of the Republic for ex post authentication. The Monetary Board is author- ized periodically to draw up a foreign exchange budget but has not exercised that power in recent years. It can also establish priorities within that budget for the delivery of exchange, after setting aside the amounts necessary to cover the obligations of the Bank of the Republic and to service the external debt of the public agencies and the National Federation of Coffee Growers. Overall import and export policy is determined by the Foreign Trade Council (FTC). INCOMEX, through its Import Board, controls those imports that are subject to prior licensing. The National Council for Economic and Social Policy issues directives concerning direct investment in Colombia to the Exchange Office and the Na t ional P lann ing Department. The Exchange Office keeps an accounting record both of foreign invest- ment in Colombia and of debts abroad, and controls the movement of foreign capital as well as the transfer of profits, dividends, commissions, and royalties for trade- marks, patents, etc. The sale of proceeds f rom certain current invisibles is also subject to prior registration with the Exchange Office. The Superintendency of Exchange Control, which is an autonomous agency reporting to the Presidency of the Republic, enforces the control and supervision over exchange transactions and is responsible for applying penalties for any viola- tion of the exchange regulations. Prescription of Currency The Monetary Board establishes the list of currencies which it accepts for exchange surrender and provides for import payments. Payments and receipts are nor- mally effected in U.S. dollars, but importers and exporters are also free to use quoted currencies.1 Settlements for commercial transactions with countries with which Colombia has bilateral payments agree- men ts2 must be made through clearing accounts in 2 Bulgaria, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and Yugoslavia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution accordance with the provisions of the particular bilateral payments agreement. Settlements between Colombia and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uru- guay, and Venezuela are made through accounts main- tained within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). There are also reciprocal credit agreements with Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Spain, and member countries of the Central American Common Market (CACM). Nonresident Accounts Credit institutions are authorized to receive short-term deposits in foreign currency f rom physical or juridical persons not resident in Colombia; these deposits are freely available to the holders, but any foreign currency deposits that they may wish to convert into Colombian currency must be sold to the Bank of the Republic. Before releasing the accounts of nonresidents, banks must obtain authorization from the Exchange Office. Imports and Import Payments There is no prohibited import list. Imports are classified either as goods whose import is subject to prior licensing by INCOMEX, or as goods that may be imported freely without license although subject to registration. In the latter category, there is a global free list applicable to all countries, a National List applicable only to member countries of the LAIA, and special lists applicable only to less developed member countries of the LAIA and to members of the Andean Pact. A distinction is drawn between reimbursable and nonreimbursable imports. The term reimbursable imports covers imports that must be paid for within certain time limits, i.e., for raw materials and consumer goods, 150 days, and for capital goods, from three to five years; they include imports under bilateral payments agreements and those that are settled through multilateral clearing accounts and those financed by long-term loans. Non- reimbursable imports consist mainly of aid imports under grants and commodities constituting part of a direct investment. All import registrations by public sector agencies are screened by INCOMEX to determine whether local substitutes are available. Some imports are subject to price control applied by the Division of International Prices of INCOMEX. Import licenses for certain items are not normally issued; these include arms and habit-forming drugs, certain foods tu f fs, certain tex- tiles and clothing, and jewelry. Both import licenses and registrations are valid for six months, except for imports of agricultural and livestock products when the validity period is three months. Import licenses can be extended for successive three-month periods, whereas registrations of free imports can be extended only once for up to three months. Prior registration of the import transaction at INCOMEX is required for all imports other than those classified as COLOMBIA "minor imports" or shipments with a f.o.b. value of less than US$500. The charge for import registration is Col$200 plus a consular invoice tax of 1 per cent of the f.o.b. value (with a minimum of US$4). In order to obtain exchange licenses, advance import payments deposits (deposit os an ticipados para pago de import a- ciones) of 35 per cent of the registered amount must be made in Colombian currency with an authorized bank before customs clearance. Importers then receive nonnegotiable, interest-free deposit certificates for for- eign payments (titulos de deposito para pagos al exterior) denominated in foreign currency and valid for 36 months. These may be used to purchase foreign exchange for partial payment of the import transaction (within any maximum payment terms specified by the Monetary Board for the type of transaction concerned). Unused certificates may be sold to the Bank of the Republic at the original exchange rate. The following are exempt from advance import deposits: imports brought into Colombia under special import-export arrangements ( the Vallejo P l an ); food- stuffs for direct consumption; direct imports for the military and the police; imports from Eastern Europe; imports from countries with which reciprocal credit arrangements are in force (LAIA countries, CACM countries, the Dominican Republic, Cuba, and Spa in); imports financed with loans f rom international organi- zations; books, newspapers, and magazines; and gasoline. There is also an advance exchange license deposit (consignation) which has to be lodged, at the official rate for exchange certificates, prior to applying for an exchange license. The rate of deposit is 95 per cent of the va lue of the import. If the transac t ion is also subject to the advance import payment deposit of 35 per cent, this is counted as part of the deposit for the advance exchange license. Imports financed with special credit lines from the Bank of the Republic or with f u n ds f rom the national budget are exempt from advance import payments deposits. The Department of Development Credit in the Bank of the Republic can approve payment terms of up to seven years in special cases. Import duties are calculated at the "Ministry of Finance exchange rate" (the average selling rate for exchange certificates for the previous month, as deter- mined by the Ministry of Finance). In addition to customs duties, there is an ad valorem tax on imports equal to 5 per cent of the c .i .f. va lue, the proceeds of which go to the Export Promotion Fund. Exempt from this tax are imports by public entities; goods of LAIA or ig in; impor ts under the Vallejo Plan; diplomatic, consular, and similar imports; g i f ts; and imports des- tined for the free port of San Andres y Providencia or effected through the port of Leticia. With the above exemptions, imports are also subject to a tax of 1.5 per cent of the c.i.f. value, whose proceeds accrue to the ordinary budget of the Na t ional Government. All 113 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA imports (except newsprint) are subject to a consular invoice tax of 1 per cent of the f.o.b. value. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are made at the exchange certificate rate. Advance deposits must be made prior to applying for exchange licenses at a rate of 80 per cent for freight payments for imports. An advance exchange license deposit for payments for invisibles, amounting to 95 per cent of the transaction, must be effected in local currency prior to the issuance of an exchange license. The deposit requirement on freight payments for imports can be counted as part of the advance exchange license deposit. Most payments for invisibles are subject to exchange licenses; however, the Bank of the Republic may make payments abroad on behalf of credit institutions without prior exchange license. Commercial banks in cities where Exchange Offices are located may sell exchange directly for the purpose of foreign travel. Banks may also transfer without prior approval payments for cer- tain other current invisibles, including fre ight payments, banking commissions, interest on suppliers' credit, medi- cal expenses, support of technical staff abroad, the monthly allowances of students studying abroad with government support, and for the service on registered foreign loans taken up by the private sector. Exchange allocations for travel abroad do not exceed US$6,000 a year (half of these amounts for children under 12 yea rs ), but there is no limit when the travel may be especially beneficial to the country. There are also no limits on outward remittances for bona fide cases of student allowances and fam i ly maintenance. The trans- fer of profits accruing to foreign investors is limited to 20 per cent of the investment per annum. An additional 7 per cent may be reinvested. Profits in excess of 27 per cent may be capitalized as direct investment, when- ever at least 50 per cent of the investment is in the form of bonds issued by the Industrial Promotion Insti- tute. Foreign tourists who have stayed in Colombia for a period not exceeding three months may, on leaving the country, purchase foreign currency not exceeding US$60 on presentation of their boarding pass. A remittance tax of 12 per cent is applicable to a number of current payments; for profits transferred by branches of foreign companies, the tax is 20 per cent. Colombian nationals and resident foreigners are required to pay a travel tax of US$15 whenever they leave the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of crude oil and certain other commodities are prohibited, and exports of certain foods tuffs are subject to quotas. Exports of certain other items, such as beef, are reserved for the Institute de Mercado Agro- pecuario (!DEMA). No export licenses are required. Prior application for registration is required, however, for all exports except crude oil, samples, and Colombian 114 products in noncommercial quantities. When registering an export transaction, exporters must provide INCOMEX with either a personal guarantee in pesos (but without depositing any fund s) or a bank guarantee correspond- ing to 20 per cent of the registered amount, calculated at the Ministry of Finance exchange rate. The periods for surrendering export proceeds normally are as fol- lows: (1) for coffee, within 20 days f rom the date of registration of the export; and (2) for other goods, generally within 270 days of registration. However, longer terms are permitted for goods sold on a com- mission basis, that is, books, magazines, and other printed matter, capital goods, and other goods that normally require more extended payment terms. The Bank of the Republic is empowered in certain cases to retain a portion of the exchange proceeds surrendered by the exporter of any product to repay debts for imports under the Vallejo Plan. All exchange proceeds f rom exports, except those from the export of crude oil not produced by the Empresa Colombiana de Petroleo (ECOPETROL ), must be surrendered to the Bank of the Republic; ECOPETROL and exporters of minerals associated with state enterprises also are permitted to retain part of their export proceeds abroad for the settlement of their import costs. On surrendering their export proceeds to the Bank of the Republic, exporters of commodities other than coffee, raw cattle hides, or petroleum and petroleum products receive tax credit certificates (certificados de abono tributario or CATs) in an amount correspond- ing to a specified percentage of the total earnings sur- rendered, converted at the Ministry of Finance exchange rate. This ratio is 0.1 per cent, 5 per cent, 9 per cent, or 12 per cent, depending on the commodity; the rates are calculated on domestic value added for specified assembly operations. These certificates, which are f ree ly negotiable and are quoted on the stock exchange, are accepted at par by tax offices three or six months af ter issuance for the payment of income tax, customs duties, and sales taxes. The surrender of foreign currency earned by exports is effected by exchanging the foreign currency for exchange certificates that are negotiable on the stock exchange. In the case of exchange certificates issued against proceeds from exports of coffee, gems, and pearls, a discount of 5 per cent is applied if the certifi- cates are presented to the bank ing system for redemp- tion within 120 days of issue. Certificates issued against export proceeds f rom other exports are redeemed by the Fondo de Promotion de Exportaciones (PROEXPO) without that discount. M in imum surrender prices for coffee, bananas, and a few other exports are set from time to time by the Monetary Board. Exports of coffee are subject to the following regulations: ( 1) A m in imum surrender price (reintegro) is fixed after deduction for freight and insurance at US$181.95 per 70-kilogram bag. (2) Ex- porters pay a tax in foreign exchange at the rate of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 16 per cent ad valorem. Of this tax, 3.2 percentage points are paid to the National Coffee Fund, and 0.8 percentage points are paid to the Departmental Committees of Coffee Growers, while the remainder provides revenue for the Treasury's Special Exchange Account. (3) Exporters must either surrender without payment (in the form of untreated coffee) the equiva- lent of 15 per cent of the volume of excelso coffee that they wish to export (retendon cafetera) or pay the National Federation of Coffee Growers the peso equiva- lent. (4) Exports of coffee are subject to an additional tax of 6 per cent ad valorem (pasilla y ripio t a x ); the tax must be paid to the Federation either in kind or in pesos. (5) A committee composed of the Ministers of Finance and Agriculture and the Managing Director of the Federation establishes a domestic buying price for export-type coffee, expressed in pesos per carga of 125 kilograms. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered; they are converted against exchange certifi- cates which can be sold in the stock exchange. If they are sold to the banking system within 120 days of issue, a discount of 5 per cent is applied. For sur- renders in respect of gifts and the rendering of profes- sional services other than medical, hospital, or educa- tional services, prior authorization from the Exchange Office is required. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers are effected at the certificate market rate. There is a 95 per cent advance payment deposit on all outflows, which must be lodged prior to applying for an exchange license. All foreign investment in Colombia, all new foreign loans, direct lines of foreign credit obtained by non- bank residents,3 and the movement of capital previously imported (except loans previously registered under Decree No. 2322 of September 2, 1965) must be registered with the Exchange Office. Capital imports require prior approval by the National Planning Depart- ment, and capital for the petroleum industry or for other mineral exploration in addition requires approval by the Ministry of Mines and Energy. Capital regis- tration entitles the investor to export profits and to repatriate capital at the certificate market rate on cer- tain conditions specified in Decree No. 1900 of Sep- tember 15, 1973. The transfer of profits is limited to 20 per cent of the net capital value in any one year (beginning with profits earned in 1968), except for profits resulting from investments of outstanding importance or involving special risks in view of the circumstances prevailing in the international money 3 Suppliers' credits of a once-for-all nature also require registration; their repayment is authorized by the exchange license covering the relevant import transaction. Such credits are subject to an interest rate ceiling of 2 per cent over the New York prime rate or the London interbank offered rate. COLOMBIA market. If in any year the earnings remitted are less than 20 per cent, the balance may be remitted in sub- sequent years; where the profits were earned (and not rem i t ted) prior to the coming into force of Decree- Law No. 444 of 1967, the additional remittances must not exceed 3 per cent a year. New investments may be granted exemptions from import duty and from advance deposit requirements. Capital invested in the petroleum industry is subject to special rules and to contractual provisions. All foreign banks and their branches must have Colombian majority participation. In this respect, "subregional" participations (i.e., from member coun- tries of the Andean Pact) are treated as Colombian participations. New direct foreign investment in banks, insurance companies, and other financial institutions is restricted to investors from member countries of the Andrean Pact and to "national" or "mixed" companies. Foreign participation is also restricted in new or estab- lished companies engaged in the international resale of imported and domestic products or in activities related to tourism. Foreign loans contracted by private Colombian indi- viduals or firms are generally subject to a minimum ma tur i ty of five years and to an interest rate ceiling of 2 per cent over the New York prime rate or the London interbank offered rate. Such loans normally are per- mitted only when m in ing companies are involved or jur id ical persons who are established in Colombia as representatives of foreign firms and are contributing to the construction of public works of national interest. Special regulations govern the periods for which resi- dent banks may "provide import financing from foreign currency borrowed abroad. Foreign loans for national or governmental entities in excess of Col$10 million or US$500,000 require prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance and the National Planning Department. For loans to the Government, or guaranteed by the Gov- ernment, the following are also required: prior authori- zation by the National Council for Economic and Social Policy and by the Monetary Board, prior consultation with the Interparliamentary Committee on Public Credit, and ex post approval by the President of the Republic. Contracts involving royalties, commissions, trade- marks or patents, and similar arrangements must be registered with the Exchange Office to enable the beneficiary to make transfers abroad. They require approval by the Royalties Committee before they can be registered. Colombian nationals who have invested abroad must surrender to the Bank of the Republic, against exchange certificates, not only the interest, profits, commissions, and royalties but also the proceeds of the sale or liquidation of the investment. Exports of capital by residents are restricted, and such exports by private individuals are not normally permitted. Current deposit accounts in foreign currency may be held by resident credit institutions, insurance companies, 115 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA export firms, transportation companies, and other speci- fied entities, upon prior authorization of the Bank of the Republic. Gold Na tural and juridical persons may trade in Colombia in gold coins for numismatic purposes only. With this exception, only the Bank of the Republic is entitled to purchase, sell, hold, import, or export gold. Imports of nonmonetary gold are not normally undertaken. The Bank of the Republic purchases locally produced gold at the average price prevailing in the London and Zurich markets during the preceding week; mining companies with foreign capital participation are paid 50 per cent in foreign currency on presentation of exchange licenses entitling them to make payments abroad for services, dividends, capital repayments, taxes, etc.; the rema in ing 50 per cent and all payments to domestic producers are paid at the certificate market exchange rate. When selling their gold to the Bank of the Republic, the producers receive tax credit certificates equivalent to 5 per cent of the va lue of the gold sold. The certificates held by small producers are bought by the Bank of the Republic in pesos at their ma rket va lue. In addition, the Bank of the Republic levies an ad valorem tax of 2 per cent on the total payment received by the miner. The Bank of the Republic makes domestic sales of gold for industrial use either direct or through the Colombian Mining Association at a price equivalent to the average quotation in gold markets abroad du r ing the previous month; this price is converted into pesos at the prevailing selling rate of exchange certificates on the date of sale. The assay and ref in ing houses and the mining com- panies producing gold are under the supervision of the Superintendency of Exchange Control. In add i t ion, the mining companies must obtain a license f rom the Superintendency in order to carry on their operations. The Bank of the Republic f rom time to time strikes commemorative gold coins which are legal tender. Residents and nonresidents may freely buy such coins, but export licenses are not norma l ly granted. Changes during 1980 January 16. In a modification of existing procedures, it was decided that payment of CATs under the import- export scheme of the Vallejo Plan was to be based on the value added for each par t icu lar product. (The application of the CAT to va lue added had been declared void in 1979 (M B RN o. 1 / 8 0 ) ). January 22. The export of specified fresh and frozen vegetables was made subject to prior authorization (FTC Resolution No. 003 /80 ). January 30. The Foreign Trade Council was empowered to authorize imports of capital goods and equipment under the global licensing system, on pay- ment terms equal to those offered by foreign lenders 116 and subject to verification that the gestation periods of the projects wa r ran ted the ma tu r i ty of the loans. The normal authorized maturity for these imports was 60 mon ths (M B RN o. 2 / 8 0 ). January 30. The Foreign Exchange Department of the Central Bank was empowered to authorize non- prof it health organizations to obtain external loans for the construction and provision of equ ipment for health services, provided that these loans did not exceed 20 per cent of the va lue of the project (MBR No. 3/80). February 13. Establishment of the Justice Tribunal of the Cartagena Agreement was ratified (Law No. 17 /80 ). February 13. The discounts on the advance redemp- tions of exchange certificates w i th in 120 days of issuance by the Bank of the Republic was reduced f rom 8 per cent to 7 per cent (MBR No. 13/80; see also MBRN o. 17/80, be low). February 13. The max imum term for extensions of fore ign loans to the private sector was reduced from five years to two years, subject to the requirement that 10 per cent of the principal ou t s t and ing should be repaid. Renewals for loans ou t s tand ing that became due prior to the date of the resolution could also be extended for two years, subject to an immed ia te mini- mum repayment of 30 per cent of the principal and all interest obligations due. Extensions were to be granted on ly in those cases where there was no possi- b i l i ty of mak ing payments under the original terms (MBR No. 14/80, regulated by General Circular No. 8 /80 of the Foreign Exchange Department, Feb- ru a ry 22, 1980). February 25. The discount on the advance redemp- tion of exchange certificates w i th in 120 days of issuance by the Bank of the Repub l ic was reduced f rom 7 per cent to 6 per cent (MBR No. 17/80; see also MBR No. 28 /80, be low ). March 14. The validity of the provisional f r ee trade zone for the Th ir teen th In terna t ional Fair of Bogota was extended through May 16, 1982 (Decree No. 559, M in is t ry of Economic Deve lopmen t ). March 18. The export of brown sugar was authorized through April 30 (FTC Resolution No. 0 2 5 / 8 0 ). April 17. With effect f rom May 2, a new single export form s imp l ify ing export procedures was in tro- duced (General Regulations of Customs No. 335 /80 ). April 18. A new import ta r i ff schedule was announced, to become opera t ional on J u ne 27; the new legislation was intended to reflect all new regional decisions in the context of the Car tagena Agreement and other La t in Ame r ican a r rangemen ts. The tar iff inc luded max imum ta r i f fs that were to be applied, with a m in imum of 30 per cent in excess of the regu lar duty, for impor ts o r ig ina t ing in coun tr ies that did not provide mos t-favored-na t ion trea tment to Colombia or for merchandise that affected the basic interests of the country. No ma jor ad jus tmen ts of rates were announced ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution in the new decree, but it was decided that in those instances when domestic assembly plants increased prices without justification, import duties for the final goods could be reduced by up to 20 per cent (Decree No. 8 9 5 / 8 0 ). April 22. A new list of imports not subject to prior licensing was issued. April 23. Legislation was introduced under which, inter alia: (1) Global licenses were authorized for payment of natural gas, petroleum, and imports of intermediate and capital goods to be utilized by Colombian enterprises in free t rade zones; the export of capital resulting f rom sale or termination of the enterprise as well as profit remittances were also author- ized without the requirement of prior ind iv idual license. (2) Remittance of interest payments on nonregistered import-related debt was permitted up to October 31. (3) The limit of US$250 a month on outward remit- tances in respect of fam i ly maintenance abroad was lifted. May 7. The m in imum surrender price for coffee was increased from US$251 to US$287.32 per 70-kilogram bag (M B R N o. 22 /80 ). May 13. The Foreign Trade Council ceased to have the power to extend the terms of paymen ts for imports under the global licensing scheme (FTC Resolution No. 41 /80 ). May 14. Endorsements and guarantees in foreign currency issued by domestic credit ins t i tu t ions for the financing of imports of capital goods under the global licensing systems by private nonprofit organizations in the fields of health and education were exempted f rom the ceilings on total guarantees for those financial insti- tutions (M B RN o. 24 /80 ). June 3. New legislation was introduced involving the following changes: ( 1) Eligibility for the opening of current deposit accounts in fore ign currency —which was previously limited to credit ins t i tu t ions, insurance companies, transportation, and export firms, and other specified entities —was extended, subject to the prior authorization of the Bank of the Republic; (2) the ceilings on travel allowances, which amoun ted to US$6,000 for adults and US$3,000 for children under 12 years, were lifted in the case of travel deemed especially beneficial to the coun t ry; and ( 3) the limits on remittances of s tudent allowances were eliminated. June 11. The discount on the advance redemption of exchange certificates w i th in 120 days of issuance by the Bank of the Republic was reduced f rom 6 per cent to 5 per cent (MBR No. 2 8 / 8 0 ). June 18. The ceiling and the requ irement of prior approval by the Colombian Ins t i tu te of Educational Credit and Technical Studies (!CETEX) in respect of remittances to Colombian s tuden ts abroad were eliminated. June 27. The new ta r i ff schedule approved by Decree No. 895/80 became operational. COLOMBIA June 30. Five chemicals and capital goods items were t rans fe r red f rom the list of imports subject to prior licensing to the list of free ly impo r tab le items (FTC Resolution No. 060 /80). June 30. A new list of cap i tal goods impor ts subject to a max imum repayment period of three years, appli- cable to commodities not covered by global licenses, was issued. A list of food items exempted f rom the advance import payment deposit was also announ c ed (FTC Resolutions Nos. 55 /80 and 5 8 / 8 0 ). July 2. It was announced that contracts und er the special import-export regime of the Va l le jo P lan were to be renegotiated prior to September 1, to reflect the new t a r i ff ( INCOMEX, Vice-Directorate of Imports, C i rcu lar No. NSE 8 / 8 0 ). July 9. The Foreign Exchange Depa r tment was empowered to au tho r ize the renewal or postponement of registered ex te rnal loans ob ta ined by the tex t i le indu s t ry for investment purposes (MBR No. 30 /80 ). July 23. The Foreign Exchange Department was empowered to au tho r ize the pos tponement of presenta- tion of documents for certain exports by either five or s ix mon ths (MBR No. 3 4 / 8 0 ). July 25. Impo r ts of cement f rom the And e an Group coun tr ies were exempted f rom impo rt du ty (M i n i s t ry of F inance and Pub l ic Credit Decree No. 1946 /80 ). July 30. The customs d u ty on specified types of air- c r a ft when pu rchased by commercial a i r l ine companies was reduced f rom 45 per cent to 1 per cent of c . i .f. va lue. August 12. The Foreign Exchange Department could au tho r ize ce r ta in tex t i le enterprises t h at had imported cap i tal goods to obtain external loans for wo rk ing cap i tal purposes. The v a lue of the au thor ized loans could not exceed 8 per cent of the va lue of imported capital goods du r ing the period March 1979-December 1981. The total am o u nt of new indeb tedness for the indu s t ry could not exceed US$18.5 m i l l ion (MBR No. 3 5 / 8 0 ). August 12. The Foreign Exchange Depa r tment was empowered to au thor ize the renewal or postponement of payment of registered external loans obtained by the steel i n d u s t ry for inve s tment purposes (MBR No. 36 /80 ). August 12. The m i n im um wa i t ing period of 120 days for the redemption of exchange certificates w i thout discount, in t roduced in May 1979, was e l im ina ted for ce r ta in lea ther m anu f a c tu r e s, textiles, c lo th ing, shoes, and wooden f u r n i t u r e; on ly exports of coffee, pearls, and gems rema ined subject to the 5 per cent discount ( M B R N o. 3 7 / 8 0 ). September 18. A number of impo rt items, ma in ly oil f rom fish, soybeans, cotton, coconuts, etc., were trans- ferred to the du ty - f ree list (Co lomb ian Ins t i tu te of Ex ternal Trade Reso lu t ion No. 074 ). October 2. Reflecting the price trend in the world ma rke t, m i n im um su r render prices for coffee were lowered f rom US$287.32 to US$201 per 70-kilogram 117 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA bag, and the retention quotas (retention cafetera) for coffee exports were reduced f rom 62 per cent to 25 per cent of the contemplated export volume; the discount on advance redemption of 120-day exchange certificates in respect of proceeds from coffee exports was also lowered to around 5 per cent (MBR Nos. 51/80 and 52/80 and Decree No. 2589 of the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit). October 6. Exchange rates to be used for the appli- cation of import duties were fixed at the preannounced levels for the various major currencies (Resolution No. 05248, Ministry of Finance and Public Cred i t). October 15. Ceilings, to take effect from September 1980 for a period of six months, were placed on the interest rates that could be incurred on external debts; the ceiling was set at 2 percentage points above specified rates for major currencies other than the U.S. dollar; for Eurodo l lar and other loans denominated in U.S. dollars, the ce i l ing was set at 2 percentage points above the six-month London in terbank offered rate and above the prime rate in the United States (Circular No. 41/80, Foreign Exchange Depa r tmen t ). December 4. The tax on proceeds from exports of coffee was reduced f rom 16 per cent to 13 per cent. December 5. The minimum surrender price (reintegro) for coffee was reduced from US$201 to US$181.95 per 70-kilogram bag (Mone ta ry Board Resolution No. 61). December 9. The retention cafetera for excelso coffee was reduced f rom 25 per cent to 15 per cent (Decree No. 3271). December 26. The travel tax of Col$500 was doubled and would be levied in U.S. dollar terms at US$15. 118 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Comoros is the CFA Franc, which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The current buying and selling rates for the French franc are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies1 are also officially quoted and are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, the exchange control measures of the Comoros do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Ter- ritories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose institute of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Institute of Issue. The Ministry of Finance, Economy, and the Plan supervises borrowing and lending abroad, inward direct investment, and all outward investments. Part of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to an authorized bank —the sole com- mercial bank —and to the Postal Administration. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through the authorized bank or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate-General of Economic Affa irs in the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency The Institute of Issue maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements with South Africa are prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports of South African origin are prohibited, and the import of certain other goods is prohibited from all countries. The import from any source of certain other 1 Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Hong Kong dol- lars, Kenya shillings, Mauritian rupees, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, South African rand, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Tunisian dinars, and U.S. dollars. commodities is subject to individual licensing. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with the authorized bank if the value is CFAF 500,000 or more. Payments for Invisibles All payments to South Afr ica are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely. Those to other countries are subject to approval; with the exception of travel, for which there are maximum allocations, such approvals are generally given liberally. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain up to CFAF 250,000 in foreign currency a person a trip. The max imum that may be allocated in banknotes is CFAF 125,000; the remainder may be in the form of a bank transfer, travelers checks, a certified check, or any other means of payment. For business travel, a special allocation may be authorized by the Institute of Issue upon the request of the authorized bank. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Afr ica are prohibited. With a few exceptions, exports to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of license. Most exports to other countries require licenses. Proceeds f rom exports to foreign countries must normally be collected, and the receipts repatriated within 30 days of the expiration of the commercial contract and sold immediately to the authorized bank. All export transac- tions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with the authorized bank if the value is CFAF 500,000 or more. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due f rom residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and, if received in foreign currency, be surrendered within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of domestic and foreign banknotes and coin. Capital All settlements between the Comoros and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between the Como- ros and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are, in principle, free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries 119 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS require exchange control approval, but capital receipts from such countries normally are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment, and all outward investment; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. Gold Imports and exports of gold in any form require prior authorization and are not normally permitted, Changes during 1980 April 18. Exchange and trade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe (formerly Rhodesia) were lifted. 120 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the People's Republic of the Congo is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French f ranc, the in terven t ion currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French f rancs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also off ic ia l ly posted, w i th quotations based on the fixed rate for the French f r a nc and the rates for the curren- cies concerned in the Paris exchange market. Paymen ts to France and its Overseas Departments and Territories, Monaco, and the Operations Account coun tr ies (see section on Adm in i s t ra t ion of Control, be low ), as well as the purchase of those countries' bank- notes and travelers checks, are subject to a commission of 0.75 per cent, with a m in imum charge of CFAF 75; exempt f rom this commission are payments of the State, the Postal Adm in i s t ra t ion, and the BEAC, salaries of Congolese d ip loma ts abroad, expenditures of official mis- sions abroad, scholarships of persons studying or t ra in ing abroad, and debt service payments due f rom companies that have entered in to an agreement with the Congo. Most payments to other fo re ign countries and credits to Foreign Accounts in Francs are subject to a commission of 1 per cent or, for fore ign exchange purchased by the D iamond Purchase Office, 0.50 per cent; these commis- sions are subject to a m i n im um of CFAF 100. A com- mission of 0.25 per cent is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. Administration of Control Paymen ts to the fo l low ing countries, although subject to dec la ra t ion, are un res t r ic ted: ( 1) France (and its Overseas Depar tmen ts and Territories) and Monaco; and ( 2) all other coun tr ies whose bank of issue is l inked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Ben in, Cameroon, the Cen t ral A f r i c an Republic, Chad, the Comoros, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ). Settlements and investment t ran sac t ions w i th all foreign countries, however, are sub- ject to con tro l. Foreign coun tr ies are defined as all coun t r ies other than the Congo. The Office of Ex ternal F inanc ial Relations in the M in i s t ry of Finance supervises borrowing and lend ing abroad. Exchange control is administered by the M in- ister of Finance, who has delegated his approval au tho r i ty to the Office of Ex ternal Financial Relations. All exchange transac t ions must be effected through au thor ized banks or the Postal Adm in i s t ra t ion. Import 1 The CFA f r a nc c i r c u l a t i ng in the Congo is issued by the B a n q ue des E t a ts de 1 'A f r ique Cen t ra le (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, C e n t r al A f r i c an Republic, Chad, and Gabon. and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the M in is try of Commerce, except those for gold, which are granted by the Office of Ex t e rn al Financial Relations. Prescription of Currency Since the Congo is an Operations Account c o u n t r y, settlements with France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any o ther institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements w i th the People's Republic of China are made through special accoun ts established under a bilateral paymen ts agreement .2 Set- tlements w i th all other countries are usua l ly made in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations per ta in ing to nonres ident accounts are based on those applied in France. The cred i t ing of BEAC banknotes to Foreign Accounts in Francs is permitted when they have been mailed to the BEAC agency in Brazzaville by the foreign correspondent of an authorized bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports from all sources require pr ior au thor iza t ion. There is an indicative annual import program which dis- tinguishes between five zones: ( 1) the coun tr ies of the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC ); (2) France; (3) other countries of the French Franc Area; (4) EC countries other than France; and (5) all rema in ing countries. All impor ts under this program require licenses. The import pro- gram does not include petroleum imports, for which a joint quota is set for the countries of the UDEAC. Also outside the program are imports for the Government under foreign aid and bilateral paymen ts agreements, and imports made by the Office Na t ional du Commerce (O FNACOM ). OFNACOM has a monopoly over ce r ta in import items, inc lud ing hardware, rice, canned tomatoes, salt, and salted fish f rom all sources, certain cotton piece goods f rom Japan, and certain other textiles f rom the People's Republic of Ch ina. The quotas for non-EC countries may be used to import goods o r ig ina t ing in any coun try outside the French Franc Area. All import transactions relating to coun tr ies other than France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Licenses for impor ts f rom countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera t ions Account coun t r ies require the visa of the Foreign Trade 2 There are inope ra t ive paymen ts ag reemen ts w i th B u l g a r ia and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. 121 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO Bureau and the Office of External Financial Relations. The approved import license entitles importers to pur- chase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. All imports must be insured with the state insurance company, Societe d'Assurances et de Reassurances du Congo (SARC ). To implement this measure, the Con- golese Customs Service releases imports only af ter an insurance certificate issued by the SARC has been pro- duced. There has been some accumulation of arrears on external payments owing to the imposition of statu- tory ceilings on central bank credit to the Government and an ensuing shortage of domestic currency with which to purchase foreign exchange. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- mitted freely provided they have been declared and are made through an authorized intermediary; those to other foreign countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment the approval authority has been dele- gated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royal- ties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Residents traveling as tourists to foreign countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, the Operations Account countries, or Zai're may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip (CFAF 87,500 for chil- dren under t en ), or CFAF 10,000 if the duration of the trip is less than 24 hours, for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining after return to the Congo must be surren- dered. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a person a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 400,000 a trip; additional amounts may be authorized in appropriate cases. The use of credit cards abroad by residents is prohibited. There are special facilities for travelers to Kinshasa who request no foreign means of payment other than Zairian bank- notes. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in the Congo is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Resi- dents traveling to France (as defined above), Monaco, or an Operations Account country may take out CFAF 25,000 (CFAF 12,500 for children under ten) in BEAC banknotes. Resident and nonresident travelers going to foreign countries other than France (as defined above ), Monaco, the Operations Account countries, or Zaire may freely take out up to a maximum of CFAF 10,000 in BEAC banknotes, French banknotes, 122 and banknotes issued by any other institute of issue main- taining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require prior authorization. Most exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely; among the exceptions are commodities exported by the National Marketing Office for Agricultural Prod- ucts (Office Na t ional de Commercialisation des Produits Agricoles) and by the National Marke t ing Office for Timber (Off ice Congolais du Bois). Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatriated, generally w i th in 180 days of arrival of the commodities at their destination. Export proceeds must be surrendered within a month of the due date. All export transactions relating to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles All amoun ts due from residents of foreign countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected when due and surrendered w i th in a month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coin (except gold coin). Capital Movements of funds between the Congo and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free, though ex post declarations are required. Such movements to countries that are not members of the BEAC are subject to a commission of 0.25 per cent. Most international capital transactions are subject to prior authorization. Capital transfers abroad require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from abroad generally are permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or non- residents that are held in the Congo by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in the Congo. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are ma in ta ined over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, and o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in the Congo; these controls relate to the transactions them- selves, not to payments or receipts. Direct investments abroad 8 require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance; the fu ll or partial liquidation 3 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Congo and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in the Congo. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Minister. Foreign direct investments in the Congo4 require prior approval by the Minister of Finance, unless they involve the creation of a mixed-economy enterprise. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in the Congo must be declared to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Congolese investments abroad or for- eign investments in the Congo, must be reported to the Minister w i th in 20 days. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. The issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in the Congo requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt f rom authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) borrow- ing backed by a guarantee from the Congolese Govern- ment and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, advertising, or offering for sale in the Congo has already been authorized. Borrowing by residents f rom nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. How- ever, loans contracted by registered banks and small loans, where the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 10 million for any one borrower, are exempt f rom this requirement. The contracting of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of External Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation. Lending by residents to nonresidents is subject to exchange control, and all lending in CFA francs to non- residents is prohibited, unless special authorization is 4 Including those involving the transfer between nonresidents of funds in the form of participation in the capital of a Congolese company. PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO obtained f rom the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt f rom this authorization; (1) loans in foreign currencies granted by registered banks; (2) other loans in foreign currencies when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed the equiva- lent of CFAF 5 million for any one lender; and ( 3) for- eign currency loans whose interest rate does not exceed 5 per cent a year and whose maturity is two years or less. The making of loans that are f ree of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of External Financial Relations within 20 days. Under the Investment Code of April 26, 1973, a num- ber of privileges may be granted to approved foreign investments. The Code provides for four categories of preferential treatment. Cold By v i r tue of Decree No. 66/236 of Ju ly 29, 1966, as amended by Decree No. 66/265 of August 29, 1966, residents are free to hold gold in the form of coin, art objects, or jewelry; however, they require the prior authorization of the Minister of Finance to hold gold in any other fo rm or to import or export gold in any fo rm, from or to any other country. Exempt from the latter requirement are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BE AC and (2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated ar t ic les). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. There are no official exports of gold. Changes during 1980 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 123 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement1 The currency of Costa Rica is the Costa Rican Colon. The authorities of Costa Rica do not ma in ta in marg ins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are determined largely on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market. However, the authorities intervene when necessary to counter dis- orderly conditions in the exchange market. The closing selling and buying rates in the foreign exchange ma rket for the U.S. dollar on December 26, 1980 ( the last business day in the yea r) were 0 14.60 and <Z 14.54, respectively, per US$1.1 Buy ing and selling rates for certain other currencies2 are also officially quoted, with da i ly quotations based on the relationship of those cur- rencies against the U.S. dollar expressed in Costa Rican colones. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. Costa Rica formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 1, 1965. Administration of Control Exchange controls are operated by the Central Bank. No licenses are required to buy or sell foreign exchange that is not subject to mandatory sale to the bank ing system. Prescription of Currency In practice, nearly all exchange transactions in Costa Rica are expressed in U.S. dollars. Payments to Poland may be made through special U.S. dollar accounts established under a payments agreement with that coun- try. Following the exchange measures introduced in December 1980, it was decided that payments to other member countries of the Central American Common Market (CACM) 3 in respect of trade and trade-related invisibles would continue to be made in Costa Rican colones through the Central American Clearing House, but must be made by means of checks and draf ts denom- inated in U.S. dollars and drawn on Costa Rican banks. Payments to and f rom Colombia in respect of commer- cial operations, services, and capital may be made in xOn December 26, 1980 the Costa Rican authorities introduced a new exchange arrangement under which the ex ternal va lue of the Costa Rican colon would f luc tua te in accordance w i th demand and supply conditions in the fore ign exchange ma rke t; simultaneously, restrictions on fo re ign exchange sales were l i f ted. As a temporary measure, it was announced that the Central Bank would continue until the end of 1981 to provide fore ign exchange at the previous ra te of <£ 8.60 per US$1 for specified payments of the Central Gov- e rnmen t, including those for imports, debt service, and payments to in te rna t ional organizations; in addition, this ra te would continue to apply to ou twa rd rem i t tances of s tudent and medical expenses ap- proved by the Cen tral Bank prior to September 26, 1980. 2 Gua tema lan quetzales, Hondu ran lempiras, Nicaraguan cordobas, and Salvadoran colones. 3 El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua. 124 U.S. dollars through a reciprocal credit arrangement between the member central banks of the Central Amer ican Clearing House and the Bank of the Republic of Colombia. Payments to Mexico in respect of trade, invisibles, and capital may also be made in U.S. dollars under an agreement between the member cen tral banks of the Cen tral Amer ican C lear ing House and the Bank of Mexico. Imports and Import Payments Imports of vehicles with an eng ine capac i ty exceeding 1,250 cub ic centimeters and parts of such vehicles for local assembly are prohibited, except for buses for pub- lic transpor ta t ion, taxis, and ce r ta in trucks. There is no impo rt licensing, and all import paymen ts may be made free ly, subject to submission of evidence of prior regis- t ra t ion (see be low ), except for goods or ig ina t ing in CACM countries or Panama. However, certain imports f rom CACM coun tr ies requ i re prior au tho r iza t ion, and imports made on a bar ter basis require a bar ter license (licencia de trueque) issued by the M in is try of Economy, Industry, and Commerce. To be eligible for foreign exchange, orders for imports va lued at over US$300 must be registered w i th the Central Bank upon confir- ma t ion by the fore ign supplier, unless the goods orig- ina te in CACM countries or Panama. With specified exemp t ions4 an advance import deposit rang ing f rom 10 per cent to 50 per cent must be made with the Cen- t ral Bank at the time of import reg is tra t ion; the deposit is held for six months. Impor ts f rom South A f r ica are prohibited. In add i t ion to any applicable customs du ty, the fol- lowing taxes are levied on impor ts: ( 1) a s tamp tax of 3 per cent of the customs du ty on commod i t ies not cov- ered by the common external t a r i ff of the CACM; (2) a sales tax of 8 per cent ad valorem, f rom which cer ta in essential items are exempt; (3) a selective consumption tax w i th a range of 6-100 per cent ad valorem on cer- ta in impor ts; and (4) a surcharge of 1 per cent of the c.i.f. value, with the exception of imports o r ig ina t ing in CACM countries or Panama and made under preva i l ing agreements. There is also a sma ll consular tax on cer- tain imports. Under the provisions of the Central Ame r ican Agree- ment on Fiscal Incentives, Costa Rica g ran ts du ty exon- erations on imports of raw ma ter ia ls and capital goods to approved indu s t r ial firms. 4 Impo rt i tems exemp ted f rom the advance deposit r equ i r em ent compr ise ag r i cu l tu r al and indu s t r i al raw ma te r ia ls, wheat and other basic g r a in s, c e r t a in special foods for ch i ld ren, m a c h i n e r y, c rude o il and de r iva t ive s, imports by the Cen t ral Gove rnment or by the Na- tional P roduc t ion Council for price s tab i l iza t ion pu rposes, impor ts f r om CACM countries and Panama, medicines for h um an use, and textbooks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for Invisibles Withholding taxes of 15 per cent and 10 per cent, respectively, are levied on remittances abroad of divi- dends and interest; interest on certain borrowing abroad (e.g., from government banks) is exempt. Costa Rican nationals traveling abroad by air must pay a travel tax of 5 per cent of the value of the ticket (tourism t a x ), an exit visa ( ( 2 7 4 ), a food allowance ( ( 2 2 ), and an air- port tax ( (284 .20 ); Costa Rican nationals who reside abroad must pay, in addition, a consular fee of US$5. For residents covered by Law No. 4812 (pensionados rentistas) and residents not so covered, the payment differs f rom the national one. Costa Rican diplomats and certain Peace Corps officials pay only (2 6, pro- vided their passport states that they are exempt f rom the above charges. Civil servants and students are not exempt f rom these payments unless so determined by the Ministry of Finance or the Migration Council. Costa Rican minors are subject to all the above payments, except for dependents of diplomatic parents, who pay only the (2 6 exit fee. Exports and Export Proceeds The Central Bank supervises exports to ensure that exchange proceeds are surrendered as prescribed. For coffee and banana exports, surrender must take place by sale to the Central Bank or an agent bank. Exporters of nontraditional commodities are entitled to tax credit certificates (CATs) corresponding to 12-15 per cent of the f.o.b. value, which are freely negotiable. In addi- tion, exporters of nontraditional commodities eligible for CATs may also receive certificates for increases in exports (CIEX) for 1-10 per cent of the increase in the f.o.b. value of exports over the preceding calendar year; the certificates are redeemable against cash at the Cen- tral Bank. Licenses f rom the Central Bank are necessary for the exportation of merchandise. In addition to the export license f rom the Central Bank, other export licenses are required as follows: strategic materials, such as arma- ments, munitions, scrap iron, and scrap of nonferrous base metals ( f rom the M in is try of Economy, Industry, and Commerce); sugar ( f rom the Agr icu l tural Indus- trial Board for Sugarcane); beans, rice, potatoes, onions, cotton, meat, and purebred and other cattle ( f rom the National Council of P roduc t ion ); airplanes ( f r om the Civil Aviation Board and the Ministry of Economy, Industry, and Commerce); Ind ian art objects made of gold, stone, or clay ( f rom the National M u s e um ); tobacco (from the Tobacco Defense B o a r d ); lumber, root of ipecacuanha, certain livestock, and animals and plants of forest origin ( f rom the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock); and coffee ( f rom the Coffee O f f i c e ); in addition, when there is a lien on coffee in favor of a bank, that bank's approval is required before the Cen- COSTA RICA tral Bank grants an export license. Exports to South A f r ica are prohibited. The exchange proceeds of all exports must be sur- rendered within 15 days of receipt or, if the goods were sold on credit, upon expiry of the term of the credit. Foreign-owned banana companies that have contracts w i th the Government must surrender their net export proceeds, which are calculated by deduc t ing f rom their gross export proceeds ( 1) p ro f i ts ob ta ined d u r i ng the year f rom the ir t ransac t ions in Costa R ica; (2) the a l lowance for deprec ia t ion on the ir inves tment in Costa R ica that is acceptable to the U.S. In te rnal Revenue Service; ( 3) the export tax on b an an as payab le in for- eign cu r rency; and (4) the cost of impor ts made du r ing the year that were necessary for the ir no rmal business in Costa Rica. There are taxes on most exports. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles are free f rom controls or restrictions. Capital All cap i tal t ran s fe rs between residents and nonresi- den ts may be made freely. The Na t ional Counc il of Ex ternal F inanc ing is in charge of coo rd ina t ing and nego t ia t ing all new fore ign loans on behalf of the Cen- t ral Gov e rnm en t, the cen tra l ized agencies, and enter- prises of the pub l ic sector. Foreign and domestic capital t ran s fe r red f rom abroad may be deposited as t ime deposits in U.S. dollars w i th agent banks in the f o rm of specified fo re ign currenc ies5 or be invested in certificates of deposit denominated in colones; such funds, when they ma tu re, are repaid in the currency in which the deposits were made. Gold The Cen tral Bank may purchase, sell, or hold gold coin or bars as part of the mone tary reserves in accord- ance w i th regulations established by its Board. Private physical and ju r id ical persons may negotiate free ly, at home or abroad, domestically produced gold (except na t ional archaeological t reasu res ), provided there is no i n f r a c t i on of in te rna t ional agreements. They may also hold gold in any fo rm in Costa Rica. The Central Bank does not supply gold to ar t is t ic or professional users. Changes during 1980 September 26. The exchange market was split with a subs tan t ial t ran s fer of transac t ions f rom the official mar- ket to the parallel marke t, operated by the San Jose Stock Exchange. Surrender of ha lf of all export pro- ceeds was requ ired at the official exchange rate, with the other ha lf surrendered at the more depreciated parallel exchange rate; payments for goods and services were also subject to the same ma rket allocation, w i th the 5 Deutsche m a r k, French francs, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 125 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA exception of foreign travel for which foreign exchange must be purchased on the parallel market. Payments for certain imports (e.g., petroleum, medicines, wheat, and imports by the National Production Council for price stabilization purposes) and all payments by the Central Government were allocated to the official mar- ket. Foreign capital entering through the official market was required to be registered with the Central Bank in order to ensure access to that market for the remittance of interest, profits, and amortization; to be eligible for this provision, foreign capital must remain in Costa Rica for at least two years. September 26. The following import restraint meas- ures were introduced: ( 1) Imports of vehicles with engines larger than 1,250 cubic centimeters and parts for such vehicles for local assembly were prohibited, but buses for public transportation, taxis, and trucks with a cargo capacity of more than two tons were exempted. ( 2) Temporary surcharges ranging f rom 15 per cent to 25 per cent ad valorem were added to those already levied on certain items, including selected manufactures, machinery, transport equipment, construction materials, and foodstuffs; exemptions from the surcharges included raw materials for industry and agriculture, wheat and other basic grains, special foods for children, medicines, crude petroleum and derivatives, imports made by the Central Government or by the National Production Council for price stabilization purposes, and imports f rom CACM countries and Panama. (3) With the exception of items exempted from the temporary sur- charges, an advance import deposit requirement rang ing f rom 10 per cent to 50 per cent ad valorem was insti- tu ted; the deposit must be made at the time of import registration with the Central Bank, and would be held for six months. December 26. The separation of the fore ign exchange market announced on September 26 was suspended. A new exchange arrangement was instituted under which the value of the Costa Rican colon would be determined largely on the basis of supply and demand conditions in the exchange market. Until December 31, 1981 the Central Bank would continue to provide foreign exchange to the Central Government at (2 8.6 per US$1 for specified external payments such as those for imports, obligations arising from foreign loans, and pay- ments to international organizations; outward remit- tances of student and medical expenses approved by the Central Bank prior to September 26 would also con- tinue to be effected at this rate. In addition, the import surcharges announced on September 26 were unified at 1 per cent for all imports except those from CACM countries and Panama. 126 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cyprus is the Cyprus Pound. Cyprus follows a flexible exchange rate policy. The exchange rate for the Cyprus pound is adjusted daily with the aim of maintaining its effective relationship with the currencies of the main trading partners. On Decem- ber 31, 1980 the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were £C 0.3646 and £C 0.3650, respectively, per US$1. The Central Bank of Cyprus also quotes daily buying and selling rates for the deutsche mark, the Greek drachma, and the pound sterling. It also quotes indica- tive rates for other foreign currencies.1 There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The Central Bank offers authorized dealers facilities for forward purchases and sales of U.S. dollars and pounds sterling for periods of up to six months, in respect of trade transactions only. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank, and trade controls by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Authority to approve certain applications for the allocation of foreign exchange, within the scope of instructions issued by the Central Bank, has been delegated to authorized dealers. Authority to introduce, adapt, and supervise controls on exports of potatoes has been delegated to the Cyprus Potato Marketing Board, while exports of cereals are licensed by the Cyprus Grain Commission. Prescription of Currency Payments to countries other than the People's Republic of China may be made by crediting Cyprus pounds to an External Account, or in any foreign currency;2 the proceeds of exports to such countries may be received in Cyprus pounds from an External Account, or in any foreign currency. Settlements with the People's Republic of China must be made through the appropriate clearing account denominated in U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts Residents of countries outside Cyprus may ma in ta in with authorized banks nonresident accounts in Cyprus pounds, designated External Accounts, or foreign cur- rency accounts. These may be credited with authorized payments from residents of Cyprus, with transfers f rom other External Accounts or foreign currency accounts, and with the proceeds from sales by nonresidents of any foreign currency. External Accounts and foreign currency accounts may be debited for payments to resi- 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs (commercial), Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 2 Foreign currencies are all currencies other than the Cyprus pound. dents and nonresidents, for transfers to other External Accounts or foreign currency accounts, and for pur- chases of any foreign currency; however, the delivery of foreign currency notes to nonresidents in Cyprus against External Accounts or foreign currency accounts is prohibited, with the exception of sales for travel purposes to nonresident individuals, to members of foreign embassies, and to members of the UN forces in Cyprus (up to the equivalent of <£C 75 a t r i p ). Blocked Accounts are maintained in the name of a nonresident for certain funds of a capital nature which may not be transferred outside Cyprus under the existing exchange control regulations. Blocked funds may either be held as deposits or be invested in government securities or government-guaranteed securities. Income earned on blocked funds so invested may be remitted to the nonresident beneficiary or be credited to an External Account without prior reference to the Central Bank. Funds can be released f rom Blocked Accounts in the following circumstances: on application by the author- ized bank concerned acting on behalf of the non- resident account holder, the Central Bank may authorize the release of blocked f u n ds for ( 1) reasonable educa- tional expenses in Cyprus of the account holder's children; ( 2) reasonable living expenses of the account holder while on a visit to Cyprus; and (3) donations to charitable ins t i tu t ions in Cyprus. In addition to any releases under ( 1 ), ( 2 ), and ( 3 ), amoun ts up to a level determined from time to time may become eligible for release. The Central Bank is prepared to permit the release of blocked funds to each nonresident holder up to <£C 1,000 in any calendar year. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Afr ica are prohibited. Imports of virtually all commodities may be made freely f rom any other coun try except Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Demo- cratic Republic, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Poland, Romania, Tibet, and Viet Nam, for which import licenses are required. For protective reasons, certain goods (such as some agricultural and textile products, footwear, metal manu- factures, and industrial machinery) may not be imported freely; for a few of these items, no licenses are granted, while for most of them licenses are granted liberally. Imports from Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, and Romania are licensed in accord- ance with the terms of bilateral trade and /or payments agreements. With respect to Albania, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Tibet, and Viet Nam, no formal trad ing arrangemen ts exist, but certain barter transactions take place from time to time. 127 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS Individual import licenses are not required for bona fide unsolicited gifts (which may not be sold) up to <£C 10 in value, for returned goods, or for certain special import transactions. Payments for all permitted imports may be made without prior approval from the Exchange Control Section of the Central Bank after arrival of the goods or after receipt of a full set of shipping documents. Advance payments require prior approval from the Exchange Control Section, except for imports whose value does not exceed <£C 100. Payments for imports free from licensing requirements effected a f t er 200 days from the date of shipment require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Payments for imports requiring a license must be made within the time limits specified on the license, except with the approval of the Central Bank. An import surcharge of 3.5 per cent ad valorem is levied on all imports except food, feeds tuff, Pharmaceuticals, and goods imported by the Government. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to nonresidents require the approval of the exchange control authorities. Profits, dividends, and interest from approved foreign invest- ments may be transferred abroad, after payment of any charges and taxes due. Insurance premiums due to foreign insurance companies are remittable after deduction of all expenses and contingencies in respect of any claims. Family maintenance remittances are allowed on application accompanied by documentary evidence. For certain categories of payments, limits are imposed, generally only for the purpose of preventing illicit capital outflow. For study abroad, allowances normally are granted only for study at colleges, univer- sities, and other educational institutions recommended by the Ministry of Education. Exchange allowances depend on the cost of living and tu i t ion in the respective locations. For studies in the Eastern Mediterranean countries, member countries of the Council for Mu tual Economic Assistance, the Middle East, and Yugoslavia, the max imum allowance for living expenses is <£C 1,300 a year; for all other countries, it is <£ C2 ,100. Add i- t ional allowances are granted for payment of tuition. For tourist travel, the limit is <£C 300 a person annually; for business travel and for purposes of medical treat- ment <£C 50 to <£C 80 a day is granted in addition to the tourist allowance. Resident travelers may take out Cyprus currency notes up to <£C 10 and foreign cur- rency notes up to the equivalent of <£C 75, the latter as part of their annual basic travel allowance. Non- resident travelers may take out £C 10 in Cyprus currency notes and any amount of foreign currency notes that they brought into Cyprus. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of potatoes are subject to control by the Cyprus Potato Marketing Board, and those of wheat 128 and barley, to control by the Cyprus Grain Commission. Exports of cement are subject to a license for the pur- pose of ensuring adequate domestic supply. All exports are subject to licensing when the f.o.b. value exceeds <£C 100 to ensure repatriation of the sales proceeds in an appropriate manner (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Export proceeds must be surrendered without delay. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles must be sold to an authorized bank without delay. Persons entering Cyprus may br ing in any amount in foreign currency notes and up to <£C 10 in Cyprus currency notes. Capital Exchange control is exercised over all capital receipts or payments. Capital receipts must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer; payments of a capital nature to any destination require prior approval. Outward portfolio investment is not normally permitted, and only specified types of outward direct investment (e.g., for export promotion) are approved. Foreign investments in Cyprus by nonresidents require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. In considering applications due regard is given to the purpose of the investment, the extent of possible foreign exchange savings, the number of persons to be employed, the extent of the foreign exchange liability which might arise from the investment, and possible competition with existing industries. Proceeds from the liquidation of approved foreign investments may be repatriated in fu ll at any time, af ter payment of any charges and taxes due. Residents of Cyprus (Cypriots or foreign na t iona ls) who take up residence outside Cyprus may t rans fer abroad up to <£C 5,000. Any excess amount is deposited in a Blocked Account. The t rans fer abroad of funds resulting f rom estates and intestacies and of the sales proceeds of real estate is limited to <£C 1,000, with any excess amount to be credited to a Blocked Account. Transactions in foreign securities owned by residents requ i re prior permission f rom the authorities. In principle, all securities held abroad by residents are subject to registration. Foreign life insurance policies not covered by the Insurance Law must be deposited with an authorized dealer. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Cyprus for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers in gold, and industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Authorized dealers in gold are permitted to import gold only for the purpose of disposing of it to industrial users. The export of gold requires the permis- sion of the exchange control authorities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Changes during 1980 May 9. Import duties on a wide range of goods con- sidered as luxury or nonessential were increased. May 10. The surcharge levied ad valorem on all imports with the exception of food, feeds tuff, pharma- ceuticals, and all goods imported by the central and local governments was increased from 2 per cent to 3.5 per cent. November 1. Exchange and trade restrictions apply- ing to Zimbabwe (formerly Rhodesia) were lifted. December 8. The "first stage'* of the Agreement Establishing an Association between the EC and Cyprus, which originally was to be terminated in June 1977, was extended until the end of 1981. The com- mercial regime with respect to the importation of certain agricultural products into the EC would con- tinue to be applied in 1981. CYPRUS 129 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Denmark is the Danish Krone. Den- mark participates with Belgium, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS ). In accordance with this agreement, Denmark maintains the spot exchange rates between the Danish krone and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 2.25 per cent (in the case of the Italian lira, 6 per cen t) above or below the cross rates based on the cen- tral rates expressed in European Currency Un i ts (ECUs). The agreement implies that the National Bank of Denmark (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1980 these rates were as follows: ._ , T . Specified Intervention Rates Per: Danish Kroner Upper limit Lower l im it 100 Belgian or Luxembourg f rancs 19.8520 1 00 deutsche mark 318.260 100 French francs 135.095 100 Ne ther lands guilders 287.900 100 Irish pounds 1,182.14 100 Italian lire 0.70830 18.9785 304.230 129.150 275.245 1,130.13 0.62825 The par t ic ipan ts in the EMS are not ma in ta in ing the exchange rates for other currencies w i th in fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper functioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctua- tions in exchange rates, the intervention currencies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. Selling rates for 18 for- eign currencies are quoted daily on the basis of market rates.1 On December 31, 1980 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were DKr 601.15 and DKr 601.85, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. Authorized exchange dealers may engage in arbitrage both spot and forward. Spot transactions are defined as transactions where actual delivery takes place within two banking days; transactions which ma tu re in three bank ing days or more are defined as forward transac- tions. Spot transactions in all currencies, including Danish kroner, and forward transactions involving pur- chases of foreign currencies against sales of foreign cur- rencies, may be concluded freely with domestic and foreign banks. Forward transactions which involve 1 Au s t r i an sch i l l ings, Belgian f r an c s, Canad ian dollars, deu tsche m a r k, Finnish ma rkkaa, French francs, Icelandic k ronu r, Irish pounds, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, No rweg ian k ron e r, Por tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish k rone r, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 130 Danish kroner may also be concluded, but for not more than two years; fur thermore, special rules apply for the fo rwa rd sale of foreign currencies against Danish kroner to foreign correspondents and for forward dealings against Danish kroner with nonresident customers. For- ward premiums and discounts are generally left to the interplay of market forces. Forward transactions with residents which involve Danish kroner must cover contractual payments for goods and services or pay- ments on authorized loans and credits, the payments covered being due not more than two years f rom the date of the fo rwa rd contract. Forward transactions with resident customers, which do not involve Danish kroner, must also cover either claims or liabilities in one of the two currencies concerned, but the requirements with respect to contractual payments are less strict in this case. Denmark fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from May 1, 1967. Exchange Control Territory The Danish Monetary Area comprises Denmark, Greenland, and the Faroe Islands. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the National Bank and the authorized exchange dealers, i.e., most banks, some savings banks, and some stock exchange brokers who are members of the Copenhagen Stock Exchange. The exchange regulations generally do not apply to ind iv idual transactions and transfers of DKr 5,000 or less. Transfers of up to DKr 5,000 may, in any case, be made without delivery of forms. Permis- sion, when requ ired, for foreign direct investments in Denmark has to be obtained f rom the M in is try of Indus- try. Licenses for imports and exports, when required, are issued by the M in is try of Indus try, the M in is try of Ag r icu l tu re, or the Ministry of Fisheries. Prescription of Currency Payments to or from foreign countries may be made in any fo re ign currency or in Danish kroner. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Krone Accounts are conver t ib le. The only exceptions are Emigrant Accounts. Krone Accounts may be opened by authorized banks for fore ign banks, insurance companies, and shipping companies, and for specified official institutions of the EC. They may also be opened for other nonresidents, provided that the total credit balance of the accounts of an ind iv idual nonres ident does not exceed DKr 200,000; any amount in excess of DKr 200,000 must be transferred abroad w i th in three days. Special accounts not subject to a maximum balance may be opened for nonresidents, provided they are credited only ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution with the liquidation proceeds or capital earnings from certain investments in Denmark and some other funds. Emigrant Accounts are kept by authorized exchange dealers for holding liquid assets owned by or accruing to Danish emigrants, to the extent that the amounts exceed the exchange allowance of DKr 40,000 available to each person at the time of departure. Certain payments to residents may be made freely f rom these accounts, and the balances are in any case made convertible one year after departure. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities, except for textiles, are free of licensing from all sources. For textiles, a common EC system of export/import licenses has now been estab- lished for almost all countries exporting low-priced textiles. The only commodities that require a license when originating in or purchased f rom member coun- tries of the EC are agricultural products, alcoholic beverages, and unwrought and semimanufactured gold. A few items require a license when originating in Japan, the Republic of Korea, or any other non-state-trading, non-EC country. A larger number of items require a license when originating in or purchased from Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslo- vakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., or Viet Nam. Payments for imports and the related shipping expenses may be made freely within five years (seven years for ships and eight years for a i rc ra f t, heavy machinery, and major installations purchased for an amount of DKr 1 million or more) f rom the end of the month in which the goods were cleared through customs, provided that the terms of payment conform to normal commercial practice in the trade concerned. Repay- ments of debts must not be made more than 30 days before the day stipulated as the latest in the contract (or before the latest customary date in the t r a d e ). How- ever, commercial credits can be repaid at any time if a discount is obtained as a result, provided the payment is made to the supplier and conforms to normal com- mercial practice in the trade concerned. Prepayments linked to trade in goods and services that are in con- form i ty with normal commercial practice may be granted to nonresidents up to one year prior to the expected date of import or the expected date of performance of the service; the permitted period is up to five years for capital goods (ships, aircraft, heavy machinery, and major installations) when purchased for an amount of DKr 1 million or more. All other advance payments for imports require prior approval by the National Bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments by residents for most invisibles may be made freely; only a few cases require approval f rom the National Bank. Authorized banks are empowered to allow the t rans fer up to DKr 40,000 a person a year DENMARK of foreign nationals' wages and salaries earned in Den- mark, provided that the person concerned has not resided in Denmark for more than three years and the transfer is made to the remitter's own account abroad. Foreign exchange for travel is allocated freely and may be obtained for travel to any country, but not earlier than 30 days before the trip if the amount applied for exceeds the equivalent of DKr 5,000. Travelers may take out freely DKr 5,000 in Danish banknotes and coin, and any amount in foreign bank- notes or other means of payment. Nonresidents may, in addition, export any amount of Danish banknotes and coin derived f rom sales of foreign currency in Denmark or brought in by them when they entered Denmark. Exports and Export Proceeds Gold is the only commodity that requires a license when exported to member countries of the EC. With respect to other destinations, except for certain items subject to strategic controls, export licenses are required only for waste and scrap of certain metals and mone- tary gold. Exports to Iran are prohibited, except for food and medicines and for deliveries contracted prior to November 4, 1919.2 Export proceeds must be transferred to Denmark without undue delay unless the National Bank permits otherwise. However, this obligation does not apply to amounts which are to be used within 30 days to settle or to offset certain commercial and capital payments; otherwise, foreign exchange receipts must either be offered for sale to the National Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer w i thout undue delay, or kept in an account with an authorized exchange dealer for a max imum period of 30 days. Proceeds from Invisibles Exports of services to Iran are banned except for ser- vices contracted prior to November 4, 1979.2 Foreign exchange derived f rom invisibles must be transferred to Denmark, unless the National Bank permits other- wise, and offered for sale to the Bank or to an author- ized exchange dealer without undue delay, with excep- tions similar to those that apply to export proceeds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Trav- elers may br ing in any amount of Danish banknotes and coin, foreign banknotes, and other Danish or foreign means of payment. Capital Both inward and outward transfers of capital and all borrowing and lending between residents and non- residents are subject to exchange control and may be restricted. Licensing practice vis-a-vis residents of mem- ber countries of the EC is based on EC directives on capital movements, subject to certain exceptions, and licensing practice in respect of residents of the rest of the world as a rule is similar. Residents have an obliga- 2 This prohibition was l if ted on Janua ry 21, 1981. 131 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK tion to repatriate proceeds realized f rom the sale or liquidation of assets abroad. Transfers abroad may be made by residents to pay interest on, or to redeem upon maturity, or to repurchase any Danish securities denominated exclusively in Danish kroner as well as the transferor's own bonds irrespective of denomination (provided these bonds are quoted on an authorized stock exchange ab road ). Resi- dents may lend amounts not exceeding DKr 200,000 in a calendar year to subsidiary companies (d irect invest- ments of loan capital) or to a member of the resident's fam i ly. Contributions f rom a parent enterprise to a branch may not be made as loans or gran ts but are treated as direct investment of equity capital. Portfolio investment abroad is generally not allowed. However, residents may buy foreign securities that do not represent direct investments in foreign commercial or indus tr ial enterprises, provided that these are acquired on the basis of a subscription right to shares or the like owned by the resident concerned, or that the resident fu rn ishes proof that he has sold foreign securities to a nonresident for a corresponding amount within the last 12 months. Residents may subscribe to or purchase fore ign bonds with an original ma tu r i ty above two years, listed on a stock exchange and issued by specified international organizations of which Denma rk is a member. The purchases have to be made through an authorized exchange dealer against cash, and sale or redemption does not entitle the seller to reinvest the proceeds in other foreign securities. No special permission is required for residents to make transfers abroad, with certain limits, in connec- tion with most direct investments or w i th private acqui- sitions of real estate abroad. The limits are DKr 200,000 a year for each fore ign en terpr ise for direct investments of equ i ty cap i ta l3 and DKr 60,000 a person for private acquisition of real estate for noncommercial purposes (DKr 150,000 for health rea son s ). Direct investments abroad by residents are normally approved in accord- ance with Denmark's obligations as a member of the EC and the OECD. The private acquisition of real estate in excess of DKr 60,000 is approved in accordance with Denmark's obligations as a member of the EC. Au thor- ized exchange dealers do not need special permission to grant loans to nonresidents for the f inanc ing of payments to residents for purchases of Danish goods and services, provided normally that the loan is granted directly to the foreign purchaser; in those cases where the Na t ional Bank's approval is required, this is generally given when the loans are customary in the trade concerned. Per- mission f rom the Na t ional Bank is required for most other t ran s fe rs abroad of a capital na tu re by residents. Danish emigrants are granted an exchange allowance of up to DKr 40,000 for each person at the time of departure. The rema in ing liquid assets must be credited 3 A license is required, however, for investments in firms which exclusively or large ly are engaged in capital inv e s tm en ts or financing. 132 to an Emigrant Account in the name of the owner and may be transferred abroad one year af ter departure, or earlier if the emigrant can show that he has taken up permanent residence abroad with the approval of the relevant foreign authorities. Inward direct investment in the fo rm of equity capital may be made without any special license if the invest- ment does not increase total direct foreign investment in the enterprise concerned by more than DKr 1 million in each calendar year. However, investments in firms that are engaged exclusively or largely in capital invest- ments abroad or the financing of nonresidents con t inue to be subject to license. In add i t ion, a license is required if the investment is unde r taken by a fore ign firm in which a res ident d i rec t ly or ind i rec t ly owns an interest representing a direct investment. Direct investments must be notified to the Na t ional Bank if they are made without a special license. Inwa rd direct inves tmen ts in the form of loans with a ma tur i ty of at least five years also are exempt f rom special licenses w i t h in cer ta in limits. Con t r ibu t ions f rom a pa rent en te rp r ise to a branch may not be made as a loan or a g rant but are treated as direct inve s tment of equ i ty cap i ta l. Other d i rect inves tmen ts by nonres iden ts requ i re per- mission f rom the exchange control authorities, which is granted liberally in accordance with Denmark's obliga- tions as a member of the EC and the OECD. The pur- chase by a non res ident of real proper ty in Denma rk normally requires a special license f rom the M in i s t ry of Justice; perm iss ion is usua l ly granted readily where real estate is to be used for i n d u s t r i al or s im i l ar enterprises. The sale to non re s iden ts of Danish bonds listed on a stock exchange does not requ i re a special license, except that nonres iden ts are not pe rm i t ted to purchase Dan ish Government k rone bonds issued since 1975 w i thout permission f rom the N a t ion al Bank. Such permission is not no rma l ly g ran ted. Bonds d enom in a t ed on ly in Danish kroner may be resold to residents. Nonres iden ts may freely purchase or subscr ibe to shares that are quoted on the Copenhagen Stock Exchange, prov ided the purchase does not represent a direct investment; th is l ib e r a l i z a t ion does not app ly to ce r t i f ica tes of inves t- ment compan ies, etc., whose latest ba lance sheet shows that more than 10 per cent of the ir assets are secur i t ies other t h an stock exchange secu r i t ies. Res iden ts may take up loans for up to f ive years (seven yea rs for ships and eight yea rs for a i r c r a f t, heavy mach ine ry, and m a jor i n s t a l l a t i o ns va lued at DKr 1 m i l- lion or mo re) f r om non re s iden ts to finance impo r ts of commod i t ies and services and the g r a n t i ng of cred i ts for exports of commodities and services, p rov ided the credit is in c o n f o rm i ty w i th no rm al comme rc ial prac- tice. En terpr ises in most indu s t r i es may take up loans of up to DKr 20 m i l l ion a borrower in a calendar year, provided that the m a tu r i ty is at least five years and that the entire proceeds are used only to finance fixed invest- ment, e i ther in the borrower's own bus iness in Denma rk ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution or in a business unde r tak ing in Denmark which is con- trolled by the borrower. Most business investments may form the basis of such loans, i.e., investments in bus iness or indus tr ial premises, and the acquisition of p lan t, machinery, and most transport equ ipmen t ,4 and pro- vided that the assets are delivered w i th in 6 mon ths pr ior to the date the loan is repatriated, or contracted to be delivered within 12 months following that date. F ina l ly, a resident may take up loans of up to DKr 200,000 a borrower in a ca lendar year f rom members of his own fam i ly. Foreign borrowing by mun ic ipa l i t ies and pub l ic u t i l i ty companies is subject to control by the app rop r ia te department of the Government. Transfers of proceeds f rom the sale or l iqu ida t ion of all types of investments and transfers of all other l iqu id funds in Denmark owned by nonresidents other than new em igran ts are permitted freely, irrespective of when and how the original investment was acquired. In terest and repayment of principal on authorized loans, credits, and deposits received f rom persons and firms who are nonresidents at the time of receipt may be paid freely, with the proviso that loans and credits obtained f rom a nonresident generally must not be amortized or repaid in f u ll more than 30 days before the amo r t iza t ion p aym ent or repayment is due. Inheritances and g i f ts to relatives may no rma l ly be t rans fe r red to any coun try w i thout l im i ta t ion. Indi- vidual payments above DKr 5,000 as g i f ts to persons other than relatives are subject to approval f r om the National Bank. Imports and exports of securities are subject to regula- tion, the details of which are established by the Na t ional Bank. Bona fide imports of Danish securities payable only in Danish kroner are perm i t ted. Exports of Dan ish and foreign securities owned by nonres iden ts are nor- mally also permitted. Danish securities held in Denmark and belonging to nonresidents may, w i th the pr inc ipal exception of bonds denominated wholly or pa r t ly in 4 Investment in ships exceeding 100 gross reg is tered tons and air- c ra ft may be financed by such loans f r om non re s iden ts only w i th special approval f rom the National Bank. DENMARK fore ign currencies, be sold f ree ly to res iden ts. Foreign securities held in D e nm a rk and be long ing to non re s iden ts may, with c e r t a in exceptions, be sold to res iden ts on ly w i th the pe rm i s s ion of the N a t ion al B an k. Foreign secur i t ies held in Denma rk may be nego t ia ted f ree ly between residents, prov ided that the exchange con trol regu la t ions are not c ircumven ted. Au tho r ized fo re ign exchange dea lers' comme rc ial net balances in accounts with fore ign coun t r ies may be nega t ive to the ex tent of an am o u nt equal to the loans which the au tho r ized dealer has g ran ted to res iden ts in fo re ign cu r rency in con fo rm i ty w i th the exchange con- t rol regu la t ions and, for the pu rpose of f inanc ing Den- mark's fo r e ign trade, w i t h in a l im it of DKr 3 m i l l ion, but for b a n ks and sav ings b ank s, the l i m it is up to 5 per cent of net wor th. A pos i t ive net commerc ial fore ign pos i t ion is, in p r in c ip l e, allowed on ly so long as it does not exceed DKr 2 m i l l i on or, for b a n ks and sav ings banks, 15 per cent of the cap i tal and reserves, wh ichever is higher. Gold Res iden ts may f ree ly buy, ho ld, and sell gold coin in Denma rk; they may also impo rt gold co in. Otherwise, res iden ts other t h an the mon e t a ry au tho r i t ies and au tho r ized i n d u s t r i al users are not allowed to acquire gold abroad. Impo r ts and expo r ts of gold no rm a l ly requ ire l icenses issued by the M in i s t ry of I n d u s t r y; such licenses a re not no rm a l ly gran ted except for im p o r ts and exports by or on behalf of the mone ta ry au tho r i t i es and indu s t r ial users. Impo r ts of gold in bars or coin, un l e ss made by or on behalf of the mone ta ry au tho r i t i e s, are sub ject to va lue -added tax at a rate of 22 per cent; the cus toms d u ty is 7 .5 per cent, un less the impo rt is made f rom EFTA or EC coun tr ies, when it is d u ty f ree. Domestic t ransac t ions also are taxed at a ra te of 22 per cent. Changes during 1980 May 21. A ban on exports of goods and services to I ran was in troduced, except for food and medicines and for deliveries contracted p r ior to November 4, 1979. (The ban was l i f ted on J anu a ry 21, 1981.) 133 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DJIBOUTI (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Djibouti is the Djibouti Franc, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at DF 177.721 = US$1. The buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are DF 176.84 and DF 179.48, respec- tively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are set by local banks on the basis of cross rates for the U.S. dollar in international markets. The posted rates are subject to commission charges of 1.5-6.0 per cent set by the commercial banks, depending on the currency concerned. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On September 19, 1980 Djibouti forma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control and no prescription of currency. The Djibouti f r anc is issued by the Djibouti Treasury, which operates in this respect as a currency board, issuing and redeeming the currency against receipts and payments of U.S. dollars. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South A f r ica are pro- hibited. Otherwise, no prescription of currency require- ments are in force. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Afr ica are prohibited. Djibouti has a f ree trade zone in the port of Djibouti but the territory as a whole does not constitute a free zone. No customs duty is charged on imports bu t, in 1 Deutsche mark, French francs, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. practice, fiscal duties are levied by means of indirect taxes ( the general consumption t a x ). The ra te of the general con sump t ion tax is 26 per cent for luxu ry goods and 23 per cent for all other goods. Certain commodi- ties, inc lud ing alcoholic beverages, petroleum products, kha t, and tobacco, are subject to surtaxes at various rates. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South A f r ica are pro- hibited. Otherwise, there are v i r tua l ly no restrictions on exports, w i th the exception of the proh ib i t ion on exports of live an ima ls. Exports proceeds may be retained. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No restrictions are imposed on payments for or proceeds f rom invisibles, except that payments must not be made to or received f rom Israel and South Africa. Capital No restrictions are imposed on inward or outward capital transfers, but payments may not be made to or received from Israel and South Africa. Under the Investment Code of June 5, 1975, enterprises estab- lished or expanded to unde r take certain specific eco- nomic activities are eligible for var ious tax exemptions. Changes during 1980 January 1. Under the terms of the Financial Act, the rates of indirect taxes were raised from a un i fo rm rate of 22 per cent to 26 per cent for luxury goods and 23 per cent for all other goods. September 19. Djibouti fo rma l ly accepted the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Articles of Agreement. 134 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Dominica is the East Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the East Caribbean Currency Authority. The East Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 = US$1. The Currency Authority also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fo r- eign exchange. Dominica informed the Fund on December 13, 1979 that it formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and applies to all countries outside the East Caribbean Currency Au thor i ty area. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market ( CARICOM )2 must be made either through External Accounts (in East Caribbean dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country con- cerned. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency3 or through an External Account in East Caribbean dollars. Nonresident Accounts External Accounts may be opened with the permission of the Ministry of Finance. They are ma in ta ined in East Caribbean dollars and may be credited with pro- ceeds from the sale of foreign currencies, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with payments by residents for which general or specific permission has been given by the Ministry of Finance. They may be debited for payments to residents and for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel purposes. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Afr ica are prohibited. Most goods may be freely imported under open general license. Certain other commodities require individual licenses, unless imported from CARICOM countries. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence. Advance payments for imports require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. Most imports are subject to a stamp tax of 5 per cent of the c.i.f. value. 1The East Caribbean dollar is also the currency of An t igua, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, and St. Vin- cent and Grenadines. 2 The CARICOM countries are An t igua, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Mon tserra t, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3 Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the East Caribbean dollar. Payments for Invisibles Under the Exchange Control Ordinance of 1973, pay- ments for travel, medical treatment, education, subscrip- tion and membership fees, gifts, and the transfer of profits abroad are subject to quan t i ta t ive limitations. All other payments exceeding EC$50 requ ire approval by the M in is try of Finance. Residents of Dominica may purchase fore ign exchange f rom authorized banks up to the equivalent of EC$5,000 a tr ip for travel out- side the East Caribbean Currency Authority area, sub- ject to presentation of evidence of intention to travel. The amount of local currency that may be taken out by travelers is limited to EC$50 a trip. For business travel, additional allowances of fo re ign exchange may be made available at a rate not exceeding EC$250 a day up to a max imum of EC$7,500 a trip. Residents trave l ing abroad for medical trea tment are eligible for an allowance of EC$350 a day up to a maximum of EC$20,000, as a supplement to the basic travel allow- ance, provided that a medical certificate is presented. Education allowances up to a max imum of EC$ 15,000 an academic year are permitted to cover the cost of enrollment, tu i t ion, accommodation, and books. Resi- dents may also make cash gifts to nonresidents not exceeding a total value of EC$ 1,000 a donor a year. Applications for additional amounts, or for purposes for which there is no basic allocation, are normally approved by the Ministry of Finance, provided that no unau thor ized t rans fer of capital is involved. Profits may be remitted in fu l l, subject to confirmation of registra- tion by the Commissioner of In land Revenue for income tax purposes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Afr ica are prohibited, and specific licenses are required for the export of certain goods to any destination. The collection of export proceeds is mandatory. Export duties are levied on bananas, citrus f ru i ts, and other selected agricultural products. Proceeds from Invisibles The collection of the foreign currency proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles is mandatory. Travelers to Dominica may bring in freely notes and coin denomi- na ted in East Caribbean dollars or in any foreign cur- rency. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange con- trol approval. The purchase by residents of foreign cur- rency securities and of real estate situated abroad for private purposes is not normally permitted. Personal capital t rans fe rs, such as inheritances, to nonresidents require approval which normally is granted subject to the payment of any taxes due. Emigrants leaving Domi- 135 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICA nica to take up residence outside the East Caribbean Currency Authority area may t rans fer up to EC$20,000 ( for a husband, wife, and children under 18 years) from their assets, subject to income tax clearance. The Ministry of Finance will consider applications for remit- tance of amounts in excess of EC$20,000. Direct investment in Dominica by nonresidents may be made with exchange control approval. The remit- tance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds f rom, such investment is permitted, subject to the discharge of any liabilities related to the investment. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for nonresidents to borrow in Dominica. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the Ministry. Gold Residents are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for num isma t ic purposes only. Imports of gold, under license by the Ministry of Finance, are permitted for industrial purposes only. Changes during 1980 April 18. Exchange and trade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe (former ly Rhodesia) were lifted. 136 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Dominican Republic is the Dominican Peso, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at RD$1 = US$1. Exchange transactions in U.S. dollars between the Central Bank of the Dominican Republic and other banks take place at RD$1 = US$1, plus a commission of 0.03125 per cent. Exchange transactions by commercial banks with the public also take place at the rate of RD$1 = US$1, subject to banking commissions of 0.25 per cent buying and 0.5 per cent selling; minor exchange transactions with tourists and other travelers from abroad are free of any banking commissions or other service charges. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies are also quoted, based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. All payments abroad at the official exchange rate must be made through banks; all exchange received must be sold to banks and banks are required to transfer to the Central Bank all exchange purchased. Payments for which foreign exchange is not sold at the official exchange rate are made through a tolerated free market, in which the exchange rate fluctuates freely; this market is supplied by foreign exchange receipts that are not surrendered at the official exchange rate. On Decem- ber 31, 1980 the buying and selling rates in this parallel market were RD$ 1.2206 and RD$1.2331, respectively, per US$1. D ifferent effective exchange rates also arise from the requirement of a fully prepaid letter of credit for certain imports. On August 1, 1953 the Dominican Republic notified the Fund that it formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment. Administration of Control Exchange and trade control policy is determined by the Monetary Board. Foreign exchange control is administered by the Central Bank. The Monetary Board establishes import quotas,1 which are administered and controlled by the Foreign Exchange Department of the Central Bank. Certain releases of foreign exchange require the express authorization of the President of the Republic. Export controls are administered by the Dominican Center for Export Promotion (CEDOPEX ). Prescription of Currency Imports f rom the United States that are financed by the U.S. Agency for International Development must be made under special letters of credit. Certain import commissions must be paid in local currency only. Set- tlements with Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, El Salvador, Mexico, and Venezuela may be made through special accounts established under recip- rocal credit agreements within the framework of the Latin American Integration Association (LAI A ) .2 Import payments in currencies other than the U.S. dollar must be made through a letter of credit. Otherwise, no obligations are imposed on importers, exporters, or other residents regarding the currency to be used for payments to or f rom nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Imports may be classified broadly into the following categories: (1) imports for which the bank ing system sells foreign exchange in unrestricted amounts at the official exchange rate; ( 2) imports for which the bank ing system sells foreign exchange only up to annual quotas;1 and (3) all other imports for which foreign exchange is purchased in the tolerated free market. All payments for imports at the official exchange rate require the approval of the Central Bank. Licensing controls are ma in ta ined over a few commodities for reasons of health or security. Insurance on imports must be contracted with companies authorized to operate in the Dominican Republic. Letters of credit for certain import payments are subject to fu ll prepayment by the importer, and commer- cial banks are required to lodge with the Central Bank the peso equivalent of the value of the letters of credit. At the ma tu r i ty of import letters of credit not subject to prepayment and opened on or a f ter September 1, 1980, the commercial banks' liabilities in respect of such trans- actions are subject to a 100 per cent reserve requirement collected by the Central Bank. At times, the Central Bank may delay payment of foreign exchange to com- mercial banks for previously approved requests for exchange. If the request was made for an import for which a commercial bank had opened a letter of credit, the commercial bank provides the fore ign exchange and extends a credit to the Central Bank for the amount involved. If the request was for a direct payment, a bank d r a f t, or a transfer of foreign exchange, the delay in payment represents a commercial arrear. At the end of 1980 such arrears represented about 12 weeks of applications. Imports are classified according to the Brussels tar iff nomenclature. Ad valorem and specific import duties are levied on imports according to three general and numerous specific laws. Ad valorem import duties range f rom 20 per cent to 200 per cent, but the max imum import duty is considerably higher (about 700 per cent) if specific duties are taken into account. An internal consumption tax of 20 per cent ad valorem and a 4 per cent surcharge on the total amount of all customs i rThe import quotas were term ina ted with e f fect f r om Janua ry 1, 1981. 2 These agreements prov ide swing l im i ts of v a r y i ng amoun ts but settlements must be made in f u ll at the end of every f o ur mon ths. 137 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC charges also are applied to all imports except those sub- ject to the minimum duty of 20 per cent. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the prior approval of the Central Bank which ensures that the application is for a bona fide transaction. However, foreign exchange at the official rate is sold only for a limited number of payments for current invisibles. For some of these invisibles, official foreign exchange is sold up to specified limits. Nonresident foreign nationals working in the Dominican Republic in industries and firms that contribute to the country's economic development may remit abroad at the official exchange rate up to 40 per cent of their incomes. For students pursuing approved courses, exchange requests for monthly maintenance allowances are approved up to US$240 for Puerto Rico, up to US$300 for European countries, and up to US$270 for all other countries; an additional allocation of US$50 a month, irrespective of country, is available for postgraduate students. Exchange is also sold for remittances to authorized students to meet expenses for tuition, books, and other fees. Applications for exchange for contractual payments, such as interest and amortization payments on loans registered with the Central Bank, are approved in con- formity with the terms of the contract. Transfers of profits and dividends are permitted only for foreign investments that have been registered in the Central Bank and may not exceed 18 per cent a year of the net value of the original and any additional investment, including reinvested profits. Dividends remitted or credited to nonresidents are subject to a tax of 18 per cent and a surtax of 3 per cent of the amount of the tax. Some delays have occurred in the provision of for- eign exchange to commercial banks by the Central Bank for approved requests for payments for invisibles. At the end of 1980 there was an accumulation of about 12 weeks of such applications. Payments for invisibles for which foreign exchange is not sold at the official rate, or in excess of the limits specified, are made through the free exchange market. Such transactions include, in particular, expenses for tourist and business travel abroad, insurance premiums, and remittances for fam i ly living expenses. All commissions due to domestic agents or representa- tives of foreign firms arising f rom imports must be paid in Dominican pesos. Airline tickets also must be paid in local currency and are subject to a tax of 15 per cent when the price of the ticket is over RD$200, or from RD$5 to RD$25 when the price is RD$200 or less. In principle, exchange for payments for invisibles is made available within five days f rom receipt of the application. Travelers are not permitted to take with them any domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of 34 products or subproducts, mainly food- 138 s tu f f s, are prohibited, and 33 others, mainly intermediate goods, requ ire export licenses. All exports of sugar and sugar by-products are subject to prior authorization by a special committee. Within two working days of receiv- ing payment, exporters of Dominican products must surrender to the Central Bank, through the commercial banks, fore ign exchange equal to 100 per cent of the f.o.b. or c.i.f. value of their exports. For the purpose of exchange surrender, declared export prices must equal or exceed the m in imum export prices established by CEDOPEX. Exempt from the exchange surrender require- ments are firms operating in indus tr ial free zones, which are required to convert only the foreign exchange that is needed to cover local costs and taxes; in addition, under the Export Incentives Law of November 8, 1979 receipts f rom specified nontraditional exports may be exempted f u l ly or partially f rom the surrender require- ment at the official exchange rate. Exporters may not extend credit for more than 90 days from the date of sh ipment w i thout authorization by the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles The foreign exchange proceeds f rom invisibles must be surrendered to the Central Bank through the com- mercial banks. Tax credit certificates may also be issued for up to 15 per cent of the value of eligible nontradi- tional exports. By the end of 1980, more than 40 prod- ucts were f u l ly or partially exempt from the surrender requ i remen t; the overall exemption for the year was not deemed s ign if icant in relation to total export receipts. The import of Dominican banknotes and coin is pro- h ib i ted. Capital Inward capital remittances are subject to authoriza- tion by the Directorate of Foreign Investment and must be converted in to pesos through commercial banks. Law No. 861 of Ju ly 22, 1978 consolidated and ampli- fied the regulations governing direct foreign investments issued under Law No. 251 (and accompanying Regu- lation No. 1679) of May 11, 1964, and created the Directorate of Foreign Investment. Such investments must be registered with the Central Bank for the investor to be able to remit dividends through the official exchange market; remittances are limited to an annual max imum of 18 per cent of the registered value and are converted in to fore ign exchange at the prevailing rate of exchange. Dividends in excess of the annual limit may be reinvested but are not registered with the Cen- tral Bank as increased foreign capital; a l terna t ive ly, in accordance w i th Law No. 861, they may be loaned in local currency to enterprises under tak ing approved eco- nomic activities, provided that the loan ma tur i ty is not less than eight years, that the interest rate is not more than 6 per cent, and that the yearly amortization does not exceed more than 20 per cent of the amount of the loan. Furthermore, dividends from reinvestments of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution amortization and interest paymen ts on the loans men- tioned above may not exceed 30 per cent of the foreign exchange earnings of the recipient enterprises. Law No. 861 assigns priority to inves tmen ts in the export sector or in any other sector which would con- tribute to an improvement in the balance of payments; it also reserves cer ta in sectors (defense and national security, all means of mass commun ica t ion, in te rnal land and air t ranspo r ta t ion, and fores try) for domestic enter- prises; certain other sectors (agriculture, poultry and livestock raising, fishery, financial in termed ia t ion, and insurance) are reserved for domestic enterprises or "mixed enterprises" (i.e., where national ownership is between 51 per cent and 70 per cent). Registration may cover, besides the foreign exchange involved, the value of machinery and equipment, tools, ins trumen ts, acces- sories, and spare parts. Upon the l iqu ida t ion of a direct foreign inves tmen t, capital ga ins may be rem i t ted up to a limit of 2 per cent per a n n um for a cumu la t ive total of 20 per cent of the registered amoun t. App l ica t ions for approval of ou twa rd capital rem i t tances m u st be submitted to the Directorate of Foreign Inves tmen t. Applications by residents to t r an s f er capital abroad to make po r t fo l io investments, purchase real estate, etc., are not norma l ly approved. Foreign debt can be contracted directly by the Cen- tral Government with the prior au thor iza t ion of the Congress. According to Law No. 251 of 1964, new loans by other public and p r iva te en t i t ies are authorized by the Monetary Board in order to guaran tee the pro- vision of official foreign exchange for service of the loans. Foreign contracts by the private bank and non- bank sectors are approved by the Central Bank accord- ing to the following scale of priorities: export promo t ion, import subs t i tu t ion, expansion of local p roduc t ion, and import financing. For the second and th i rd categories, fore ign loans are not authorized if the repayment schedule is less than four years. For impo rt financing, the repayment term of foreign loans must be less than 180 days, except for capital goods. DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in the Dominican Republic for num isma t ic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the mone tary author- ities and authorized indus tr ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewelry, in the Dominican Repub l ic or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry consti- tuting the personal effec ts of a traveler requ ire licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not norm- ally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone ta ry au tho r i t ies and indus t r ial users. Changes during 1980 June 1. As part of the effor ts to narrow the budget deficit, the au thor i t ies added machinery, equ ipmen t, and spare parts, together amoun t ing to between 8 per cent and 10 per cent of annual imports, to the list of imports which no longer receive exchange cover through the Central Bank. In addition, the Central Bank announced that import quotas would be terminated with effect from January 1, 1981. September 1. It was decided by the Central Bank that at the ma tu r i ty of import letters of credit not subject to prepayment and opened on or after September 1, 1980, the commercial banks' liabilities in respect of such transactions would be subject to a 100 per cent reserve requirement. At the same time, the prepayment requirement was extended to import letters of credit for certain previously exempt items totaling US$76 million in 1980. September 18. Imports of machinery and equipment financed with loans f rom international institutions were exempted from the regulation issued on lune 1; such imports would thus be eligible for exchange cover through the Central Bank. November 1. The Central Bank exempted from the prepayment requirement letters of credit w i th a maturity of more than a year. 139 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ecuador is the Ecuadoran Sucre. There are two exchange markets, the official market and the free market. In the official marke t, the Central Bank of Ecuador ma in ta ins rates of S/. 24.80 buy ing and S/. 24.95 selling, per US$1. The buy ing and selling rates for other cu r renc ies1 are officially quo ted on the basis of daily buying and selling rates against the U.S. dollar in foreign marke ts. Export proceeds, import pay- ments, certain settlements of invisibles, government and pub l ic sector transactions, and some capital transactions of the private sector are negotiated in the official market. With some exceptions (see below), all other transactions are conducted in the free ma rke t, in which the exchange rate fluctuates but where the Central Bank intervenes ma in ly for the purpose of avoiding sharp exchange rate fluctuations. The f ree ma rket buy ing and selling rates on December 31, 1980 were S/. 27.88 and S / .28 .17, respectively, per US$1. A few transac t ions (such as pay- ments for printed ma ter ia l) may be made in e i ther of the two markets. Imports, excluding impor ts of oil companies, are sub- ject to an exchange tax of S /. 0.25 = US$1. Exchange transactions of oil companies are effected at the rate of S/. 25 per US$1; oil companies are sub ject to an exchange tax of 1 per cent applied to both purchases and sales. Loan cap i tal f rom in te rna t ional agencies and foreign governments to the Government and public in s t i tu t ions is converted at the rate of S/. 25 per US$1. External loans are sub ject to a tax that var ies between 0.5 per cent and 2 per cent for ma tur i t ies of 6 months to 24 months. Exempted f rom this tax are (1) loans of more than 24 months; (2) loans f rom fo re ign govern- ments and international agencies; (3) loans to the public sector; and (4) suppliers' credits invo lv ing no in f low of fore ign exchange. Ecuador fo rm a l ly accepted the ob l iga t ions of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreemen t, with effect f rom August 31, 1970. Administration of Control The Mone tary Board has au tho r i ty to sh i ft transac- tions between the two exchange ma rke ts and has exten- sive powers w i th respect to impo rt policy. The official exchange market is under the control and supervision of the Central Bank. The Central Bank also issues import and export licenses and registers fo re ign cap i ta l. Imports en te r ing the coun try as pa rt of a direct invest- 1 Argentine pesos, Aus tra l ian dollars, Au s t r ian schillings, Belgian f r a n c s, B raz i l ian c ruze i ros, C a n a d i an do l la r s, Ch i lean pesos, Co lomb ian pesos, Danish k rone r, deutsche m a rk, French f r a n c s, I ta l ian l i re, Japanese yen, Mexican pesos, Ne the r lands gu i lde rs, No rweg ian k rone r, P a r a g u a y an guaran ies, Pe ruv ian soles, pounds s te r l ing, Span ish pese tas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U r u g u a y an new pesos, and Venezue lan bolivares. 140 ment and imports by foreign enterprises which have con trac ts with the Gove rnment requ ire prior authoriza- t ion by the M in i s t ry of Indus t ry, Commerce, and Inte- gration and, when exemp t ions f rom fiscal charges are sought, by the M in i s t ry of Finance. However, all appli- cations for impo rt licenses by indu s t r ial firms must be subm i t t ed to the Cen t ral Bank. Foreign inve s tment in Ecuador is supervised by the Foreign Investment Counc i l. Prescription of Currency Most se t t lemen ts w i th the Ge rman Democratic Repub l ic, Hung a ry, Po land, and Roman ia take place th rough b i la te ral accoun ts. There is a reciprocal credit agreement w i th Argen t ina. Payments between Ecuador and Bo l iv ia, B r a z i l, Ch i le, Colombia, Cuba, the Domini- can Repub l ic, Mex ico, Paraguay, Pe ru, U r u g u a y, and Venezuela must be made through accounts ma in ta ined w i th each other by the Cen tral Bank of Ecuador and the other cen tral banks concerned, w i th in the f ramewo rk of the mu l t i la te ral clearing system of the La t in Amer ican In teg ra t ion Association (LA IA ). Exchange proceeds f rom other coun t r ies must be received in conver t ib le currencies. Whenever possible, import paymen ts must be made in the c u r r e n cy s t ipu la ted in the impo rt license. Imports and Import Payments Pe rm i t ted impo r ts are divided i n to two categories: List I, cons is t ing of essential goods (G roup A) and semi- essential goods (G roup B), and List II, cons is t ing of less essential and l u x u ry goods. All goods not inc luded in these two lists are p roh ib i ted. Ma in ly for reasons of indu s t r ial p ro tec t ion, ce r ta in impor ts requ i re prior au tho r iza t ion f r om gove rnment m in i s t r i es or agencies. Prior impo rt licenses are requ i red for all pe rm i t ted impor ts, w i th the f o l l ow i ng excep t ions: books, news- papers, per iod ica ls, and p r in ted or recorded music may be impo r ted freely w i thout a license aga inst payment th rough the f ree m a r k e t; if the impo r ter app l ies for a license, exchange w i ll be made ava i lab le at the official ra te but only when the i tems are for educational or sc ien t i f ic purposes. These impo r ts are sub ject to pay- ment of the app l icab le taxes and charges regardless of the ir pu rpose. Med ic ines and spare pa r ts for m a c h i n e ry and au tomo t ive veh ic les are f ree of l icense when va lued at US$500 f .o .b. or less, but all app l icab le cha rges and taxes m u st be pa id on them. In a d d i t i o n, the State Petroleum Co rpo ra t ion may im p o rt supp l ies, ma ter ia ls, and e q u i pm e nt necessary for the conduct of i ts business d u r i ng emergency s i t u a t i o ns w i thout o b t a i n i ng a pr ior im p o rt l icense. A few goods may be impo r ted on ly f r om member c o u n t r i es of the LAIA, and some on ly f r om Pa raguay. W i th these excep t ions, impo rt licenses are issued f ree ly irrespective of the o r ig in of the goods, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution provided that the appropriate import taxes (including import surcharges) have been paid, that the required prepayment of 80 per cent of import duties has been made, that an advance deposit has been paid, that prior ministerial authorization (where applicable) has been obtained, and that a certificate is submitted showing that insurance has been arranged in Ecuador. The license automatically entitles the holder to obtain exchange at the official rate to cover the c. & f. value of the import upon presentation of the shipping documents. The Central Bank may authorize advance impo rt pay- ments with official exchange up to 100 per cent of the c. & f. value, provided the importer has paid the corre- sponding amount in local currency and has deposited, as a guarantee, an additional 15 per cent of the value in sucres. The guarantee deposit is re turned at the time of customs clearance. Import licenses which do not entitle the importer to fore ign exchange at the official ra te (permisos de importation no reembolsables) may be issued for goods f inanced f rom the proceeds of certain international loans, provided that these have been registered at the Central Bank, but such licenses are not required to import the goods concerned. Many imports are sub ject to advance deposit require- ments. The deposit, which must be maintained for 180 days, is 50 per cent for barley and automobiles and certain other vehicles, 30 per cent of the c.i.f. value for goods on List II, and 10 per cent for goods on List I-B; up to 25 per cent of the deposit for imports on List I-B may be made in the fo rm of mortgage bonds, or bonds issued by the Government or f inance companies. There are various exemptions.2 All imports are sub ject to a tax of 5 per cent levied on commercial transac t ions. Furthermore, all goods are subject to a tax of 1 per cent of the c.i.f. value, unless they represent g i f ts or foreign loans. With certain exemptions, goods on List II are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles Exchange for payments in respect of cer ta in cu r rent invisibles may be obtained f rom the Central Bank at the official rate. These transactions in invisibles are, in principle, limited to interest on fo re ign loans that have been registered at the Central Bank, dividends and p ro f- its on fore ign inves tmen ts registered at the Central Bank (provided the fore ign exchange was sold at the Central Bank), paymen ts by the Government and pub l ic en t i t ies, and the necessary expenses of Ecuadorans s tudy ing at universities abroad, medical expenses, and adver t is ing costs. Exchange for p r iva te sector interest payments can be obtained at the official ra te for interest rates not exceeding 10 per cent; exchange for pr iva te sector pay- 2 Among these exemptions are goods on List I when impo r ted on a barter basis against exports of bananas, creme de cacao, and sug a r, and goods on List I-B when imported by the pub l ic sector. ECUADOR men ts of interest in excess of th is l im it must be pur- chased in the free ma rke t. There is no ceiling for inter- est paymen ts by the pub l ic sector. W i th respect to loans to petroleum companies, in te re s t, commission, and other financial charges on fo re ign loans may not exceed the equ iva lent of 2 per cent above the ra tes of in terest of the cred i tor coun t ry; moreover, annu al amo r t iza t ion may not exceed the sum of u n d i s t r i b u t ed prof i ts, depre- ciation of fixed assets and l iqu ida ted assets, and any va r ia t ion in wo rk ing cap i ta l. There are also l im i ts on s tudent allowances, travel expend i tu re s, and "other" inv is ib les eligible for the o f f ic ial ra te, but amoun ts in excess of these l im i ts may be purchased in the free market. Most o ther paymen ts for cu r r ent inv is ib les mu st be settled in the free m a r k et and are un re s t r ic ted. There are no l im i t a t ions on the amoun ts of domestic and fore ign bankno tes th at trave lers may take ou t. Res iden ts t rave l ing abroad by air mu st pay a tax of S /. 700 for each exit visa. A i r l ine tickets for fo re ign travel are taxed at 10 per cen t, wh i le t icke ts for t ravel by ship are s u b j e ct to tax at the ra te of 8 per cent for depa r tu re f rom Ecuador and 4 per cent for the r e t u rn tr ip. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll expor ts r equ i re l icenses to en su re the f u ll sur- render of the exchange proceeds to the Cen tral Bank; licenses are issued f r e e l y, sub j e ct to gu a r an t e e. No sur- render is r e q u i r ed for expor ts e f fec ted under licensed bar ter transac t ions. However, ba r ter t r a n s a c t i o ns r equ i re a prior con t rac t. M i n im um re fe rence prices are estab- lished for exports of banana s, co f fee, cacao, and semi- f in ished p rodu c ts of cacao to he lp en su re the f u ll sur- render of the exchange proceeds. Re fe rence prices are also es tab l ished for expo r ts of crude pe t ro leum; these serve as the bas is for the ca lcu la t ion of taxes, royalties, etc. Cer ta in commod i t ies are sub ject to expo rt taxes, payab le at the t ime the export license is received, w i th the exception of the export tax on co f fee wh ich is pay- able w i t h in one m o n th of the receipt of the export license. An export tax of 20 per cent ad valorem is levied on cocoa beans; expor ts of coffee beans are sub j e ct to a s l id ing -sca le tax, wh i ch ranges f r om 26.5 per cent to 35 per cen t. There are o ther export taxes in add i t ion to those men t ioned above. A numb er of export p roduc ts receive a subs idy based on the f .o .b. va lue. The sub s idy is received in the fo rm of a tax credit c e r t i f i c a te (certificado de abono tributario) on the basis of cus toms documen ta t ion. For ag r icu l tu ral produc ts the sub s idy ra te is 5 per cent of the f .o .b. export va lue; for m a n u f a c t u r ed p roduc ts, the rate of subs idy varies accord ing to domestic va lue added. Proceeds from Invisibles Rece ip ts f r om specified inv is ib les must be sold to the Cen tral Bank at the official rate. All other receipts, inc lud ing those f rom travelers, may be sold in the free 141 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR market. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital Capital may freely enter or leave the country through the free market. Most borrowing abroad is subject to an exchange tax ranging f rom 0.5 per cent to 2 per cent (see section on Exchange Arrangement, above). All foreign investments in Ecuador must be registered with the Central Bank. New investments require the prior authorization of the Ministry of Industry, Com- merce, and Integration and /or the Foreign Investment Council. In the case of investments for which exchange was sold to cover local costs, the investor must show that the exchange was sold to the Central Bank in order to be entitled to foreign exchange at the official rate for remittances of interest, profits, dividends, and amortiza- tion. For foreign capital entering in the form of machinery and equipment, the investor must show that the merchandise has been cleared through customs and that it took the fo rm of a "nonreimbursable" import. Additionally, the investor must present to the Central Bank the certification f rom the appropriate ministry that the declared value conforms to the actual value of the machinery and equ ipmen t. The Exchange Department of the Central Bank must submit a recommendation to the General Management of the Central Bank within 30 days from receipt of the request for registration in the official market and all pertinent documentation. Thereafter, taking into account the interests of the Ecuadoran economy and priorities established in the country's development plans, the General Management of the Central Bank must approve or deny the registra- tion for foreign exchange purposes within an additional 30 days. In certain cases, where all documentation has been submitted, the Central Bank can provisionally register the investment for a period of up to 90 days. Similarly, loans in foreign exchange granted to the Government or to official entities may be registered for foreign exchange purposes with the Exchange Depart- ment of the Central Bank; for all fore ign loans, registra- tion is mandatory for statistical purposes. In the case of suppliers' credits, no special registration procedure is required. Foreign nationals are prohibited from owning rural properties and from owning or operating mining industries within 30 miles of Ecuador's coastline or borders. The participation of foreign capital as a direct investment in domestic wholesaling and retailing, in construction, and in real estate development is restricted. The Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Integration does not authorize direct fore ign investment for estab- lishing publicity firms, commercial broadcasting stations, television stations, newspapers, and magazines. Foreign exchange may be obtained at the official rate for the withdrawal of foreign investment from Ecuador five years after the date of registration, on the basis of 142 a schedule agreed by the Central Bank. Profits accumu- lated in previous years may be repatriated also on the basis of a schedule agreed by the Central Bank for investments for which the registration procedure for foreign exchange purposes has been completed. For investments registered on a provisional basis, profits may not be repatriated through the official market. Profit remittances may not exceed the l im it (20 per cent a yea r) specified in the Foreign Investment Code of the Andean Pact. Residents who are private ind iv idua ls are not granted official foreign exchange to purchase securities or real estate abroad. Commercial banks are authorized to maintain accounts with correspondent banks abroad in convertible currencies. Gold Residents other than the Central Bank may export gold only in the fo rm of filigree work, the gold content of which does not represent more than 25 per cent of its market value. Imports of monetary gold are reserved for the Central Bank; such imports are treated as List I imports, payable through the official market. Imports of nonmone tary gold in bars may be made by the Cen- tral Bank or by any other resident and are also treated as List I imports eligible for the official rate. Gold bars are exempt f rom import duty, while the duty on semi- worked gold is 40 per cent ad valorem; semi worked gold is treated as a List II import. Changes during 1980 January 10. Imports of boar and pig bristles were sh i f ted from List II to List I-B (Monetary Board Regu- lation No. 1064). January 10. Regulations governing foreign petroleum companies were amended to permit revenues in sucres (net of local costs) obtained by such companies from specified domestic transactions to be converted into for- eign exchange in the official market to cover specified transactions (Mone tary Board Regulation No. 1065). January 24. Imports of pharmaceuticals for human use were liberalized and exempted f rom all duties as well as from the advance import deposit requirement and the 5 per cent tax on commercial transactions. January 29. A 5 per cent tax credit on the f.o.b. value was granted for exports of several agricultural commodi- ties (Ministerial Agreement No. 117). February 13. Imports of nonprofit institutions were exempted f rom advance deposit requirements if such imports were for noncommercial purposes and were not prohibited (Mone ta ry Board Regulation No. 1067). February 13. Imports of silos, dryers, and goods for the construction of these items were exempted from advance deposit requirements (Mone tary Board Regu- lation No. 1068). February 20. Imports of raw materials, parts, and components for the manufac ture of vehicle bodies, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution trailers, and buckets were exempted from payment of customs duties (Resolution No. 88 of the Directorate General of Industrial Development and the Directorate General of Customs Duties). March 11. Imports of edible oils and fats under List I-B became subject to prior certification by the Ecuadoran Institute of Standards as being suitable for human consumption (Mone tary Board Resolution No. 1070). March 11. Imports of lubricant greases under List I-A were made subject to prior authorization from the Min- istry of Industry, Commerce, and Integration, in addi- tion to the existing requirement of prior authorization from the Ministry of Na tural Resources (Mone tary Board Regulation No. 1071). March 26. Imports of copper accessories for piping on List I-B would no longer require prior authorization from the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Integra- tion (Monetary Board Regulation No. 1073). March 26. Imports of maize were shifted from List II to List I-B, and maize and sorghum imports were made subject to prior authorization from the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (Monetary Board Regulation No. 1074). March 26. Imports of certain electric apparatus for purposes of measurement and control under List II were made subject to prior authorization from the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Integration (Monetary Board Regulation No. 1076). April 16. Imports of specified radiological instru- ments, generators, and related items under List I-B were made subject to prior authorization from the Ecuadoran Atomic Energy Commission (Monetary Board Regulation No. 1077). April 24. Imports of specified manufac tured sieves under List I-B were made subject to prior authorization from the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Integra- tion (Monetary Board Regulation No. 1078). May 7. Monetary Board Regulation No. 1080 granted authorization for payment of prior import deposits under ECUADOR List I-B by means of mortgage bonds, bonds issued by finance companies, or government bonds, for up to 25 per cent of the required deposit. May 14. Authorization was granted for official exter- nal borrowing from private sources abroad to be under- taken to finance only projects included under the Na t ional Development Plan or approved by the Ministry of Planning; such external credits could finance up to 80 per cent of the cost of the project, and up to 20 per cent of such credits could be used to finance local costs; exempted from these limitations were 41 priority projects under the National Development Plan, as well as the National Finance Corporation and the National Development Bank (Monetary Board Regulation No. 1081). May 28. Imports of refined or purified peanut oil were shifted from List II to List I-B, and the source of these imports was no longer restricted to Paraguay (Monetary Board Regulation No. 1086). July 1. To ensure supply for the domestic market, exports of hides of cattle were temporarily suspended (M in is t ry of Industry Agreement No. 762). September 3. Ecuadoran nationals who have lived abroad for at least two years could import one auto- mobile at least two years old without an advance import deposit (Mone tary Board Regulation No. 1092). September 3. Imports of hazelnuts were included under List II (Mone tary Board Regulation No. 1093). October 30. As a conservation measure, tax credits on exports of turtles and related products were elimi- nated (Interministerial Agreement No. 1307). December 10. Imports of specified electric appara- tus, such as electrical switches, circuit breakers, and switchboards under List II, were made subject to prior authorization from the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Integration (Monetary Board Regulation No. 1101). December 10. Imports of vehicles with eight-cylinder motor engines and imports of motor engines of eight cylinders or more were prohibited, except for jeeps, ambulances, and vehicles for military or police use (Monetary Board Regulation No. 1102). 143 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT (Position on December 31, 2980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Egypt is the Egyptian Pound, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at LE 1 = US$1.42857. The established buying and selling rates of the Central Bank of Egypt for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1980 were LE 0.700 and LE 0.707, respectively, per US$1. Established rates for 14 other convertible currencies are based on cross rates quoted in New York.1 A special exchange rate, equivalent to LE 1 = US$2.55555, applies to transactions under bilateral payments agreements w i th countries that are not members of the International Monetary Fund and to liquidation accounts related to past bilateral payments agreements. In addition, certain transactions take place at freely negotiated exchange rates. Forward cover is available for foreign trade transactions. Banks do not require prior exchange control approval for dealings or transactions in foreign currencies. Administration of Control Exchange control is supervised by a Committee for Foreign Exchange, under the Ministry of Economy, Foreign Trade, and Economic Cooperation, and is imple- mented under the supervision of the Under Secretary for Foreign Exchange A f fa i rs. A fore ign exchange budget is established annually. Banks are authorized to execute foreign exchange transactions, within the f ramewo rk of a general authorization, without the need to obtain specific exchange control approval. The Min- istry of Economy, Foreign Trade, and Economic Coop- eration supervises imports and exports, but controlled imports are governed by exchange allocations rather than by import licenses. Certain imports and exports are reserved for public sector companies. Port Said City is a free zone. Prescription of Currency Payments to and f rom countries with which Egypt does not have bilateral payments agreements may be made in any convertible currency, in Egyptian pounds, or in a convertible currency to the debit or credit of the appropriate Free Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low), or in any other manner prescribed or permitted by the foreign exchange regulations manual. However, by a decision of the Central Bank, the pro- ceeds f rom exports of raw cotton to convertible cur- rency countries must be received in deutsche ma rk, Swiss francs, or U.S. dollars (in addition, for exports to France, Japan, and the United Kingdom, in the cur- rencies of those countries). 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, Danish k rone r, deutsche ma rk, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Ne the r lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 144 Settlements with countries with which Egypt has bilateral payments agreements are made according to the terms of those agreements.2 However, payments to such countries for "own exchange" imports and various other purposes may be made in convertible currency.' Certain settlements with countries with which indemnity agreements concerning compensation for nationalized proper ty are in force are made through special accounts in Egyptian pounds with the Central Bank of Egypt. Suez Canal dues are expressed in SDRs and may be paid by debiting Canal Dues Accounts, Advance Payment Canal Dues Accounts, Free Accounts in Foreign Cur- rency, or Free Accounts in Egyptian Pounds. Canal Dues Accounts must be opened in fore ign currency and balances are retransferable abroad. Nonresident Accounts In addition to the special accounts related to Egypt's bilateral payments agreements or to the indemnity agreements concluded with certain countries, there are four ma in types of accounts: Free Accounts, Special Accounts, D Accounts, and Canal Dues Accounts. Free Accounts may be opened in the name of any person other than the Egyptian Government, public au thor i t ies, and public sector entities. They may be opened either in a foreign currency or Egyptian pounds; the latter are freely convertible. Free Accounts may be credited with transfers of convertible currency or w i th the proceeds from the sale of such currency; with t rans fe rs f rom other Free Accounts; with proceeds from the sale of foreign banknotes which the holder has declared upon entry into Egypt; with interest on the accounts; and with the equivalent of any payment authorized in convertible currency. They may be debited for payments abroad in a convertible currency; for transfers to other Free Accounts and to Special Accounts; for purchases of foreign banknotes or other means of payment; for any payments in Egypt, including those for exports; and for bank charges and com- missions. Special Accounts in foreign currency may be opened in the name of any person other than the Egyptian Governmen t, pub l ic au thor i t ies, and pub l ic sector entities. They may be credited with proceeds f rom the sale of acceptable foreign banknotes; with transfers f rom Free Accounts or other Special Accounts; and with interest on the accounts. They may be debited for pay- ments for imports; for either t rans fe rs abroad or pur- chases of foreign banknotes or other means of payment 2 On December 31, 1980 Egypt ma in ta ined bilateral payments agree- men ts w i th People's Repub l ic of Ch ina, Democra t ic People's Republic of Korea, Sud an, and U.S.S.R. The cred it fac i l i t ies established between the Central Bank of Egypt and the Central Bank of Jordan have been suspended. There are also inoperative a r rangemen ts with Mongolia and the Yemen Arab Republic. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution to cover the expenses abroad of the account holder or his family (within a limit of LE 3,500 a y e a r ); for other authorized payments abroad; for local foreign currency payments; and for purchases of foreign banknotes or other means of payment for use in Egypt. D Accounts may be opened in the name of any resi- dent of a country with which Egypt has a bilateral payments agreement. The accounts must be designated by the name of the partner country concerned. These accounts may be credited with receipts under the respec- tive payments agreement and with the equivalent of transfers authorized from the country of the account holder. They may be debited for transfers to the country of the account holder and for local payments (including those for Egyptian exports) authorized by the imple- menting regulations and within the scope of the relevant payments agreement. There are also Nonconvertible Capital Accounts, to which must be credited any payment of a capital na ture to a foreigner living outside of Egypt that is not remit- table under the exchange control regulations. Banks may debit these accounts for charges legally due f rom the account holder. Accounts held by individuals may be debited up to a limit of LE 2,000 a year for use by the account holder. Accounts held by juridical persons may be debited for settlement of obligations due to the Egyptian authorities and for payments to residents for services rendered, and up to a limit of LE 2,000 a year for expenses incurred in connection with the activities or residence of the holder's employees in Egypt. Foreign Exchange Retention Accounts may be opened in the name of authorized recipients up to specified percentages of the proceeds from certain exports and nonfactor services, and may be credited with the pro- ceeds of such transactions. They may be debited for payments in respect of trade and invisibles related to the account holder's economic activities or for surrender of the foreign currency. Balances in such accounts held by the private sector must be used within six months or surrendered; in the case of public sector entities, the limit is one month. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Afr ica are prohibited. No exchange is allocated in practice for many goods that are considered nonessential or that are produced locally, although most types of commodities may be imported, provided the necessary foreign exchange is acquired outside the official market. All imports are financed at the established rates with the exception of imports under bilateral payments agreements with countries that are not members of the IMF, which are financed at a special rate equivalent to the former official rate, and imports that take place under the "own exchange" arrangement. Most imports from payments agreement countries (except those made under the "own exchange" arrange- EGYPT m e n t ), as well as imports of specified goods f rom any source, are reserved for the public sector. Private sector importers of "own exchange" imports must be Egyptians, born of Egyptian fathers. For imports on "own exchange" basis, importers must make advance payment in convertible currency to local banks, amounting to 25 per cent of value in the case of certain food items, 40 per cent for production inputs other than transporta- tion equipment, and 100 per cent for other items. A Supreme Council for the Planning of Foreign Trade is entrusted with establishing long-term policy for exports and imports, controlling the annual export and import plan, and supervising the execution of the foreign exchange budget. The ministries concerned are respon- sible for setting priorities regarding imports and their timing. For purposes of administration, the economy is divided into several sectors (agriculture, industry, transportation, etc.). The annual foreign exchange budget provides for a specific quota for each sector, and the authorities in charge of the sector decide upon the goods to be imported within that quota. Approval by a foreign trade committee constitutes the necessary authorization for the implementation of import trans- actions. Private sector imports through the official ma rket require approval by the Commercial Agency. Imports are regulated by exchange allocations rather than by import licenses. All commodities except those appearing on a special list may be imported, provided that no purchase of foreign exchange in the official market is involved. In the case of certain specified items, a special Deter- m ina t ion Committee must first approve the transaction. Certain imported goods may be sold for foreign currency to Egyptians and foreigners at special shops. An economic development tax of 10 per cent of the c.i.f. value is payable on imports; the tax is 5 per cent for certain essential foods tuffs imported by the Min- istry of Supply. A statistical tax of 1 per cent of the c.i.f. value is payable on all imports except wheat. Payments for Invisibles Banks are authorized to provide foreign exchange for payments for certain invisibles in accordance with general authorizations and instructions and up to specific quotas. Residents may purchase, through local banks and up to specified amounts, the foreign exchange required for travel expenses and certain other purposes, at established rates. Egyptian nationals are entitled to retain their earnings in foreign exchange (except those accruing f rom exports and tourism) in Free or Special Accounts and may use this fore ign exchange freely for payments abroad. They may also acquire additional foreign exchange through the medium of Free or Special Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Travelers may carry with them foreign banknotes acquired through other channels that have not previously been declared up to LE 200 a trip or LE 2,000 a year. 145 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT Travelers may not export more than LE 20 in Egyptian banknotes. Egyptian travelers may take with them any foreign exchange which they have acquired legitimately; foreign travelers leaving Egypt may recon- vert their remaining Egyptian pounds after deduction of LE 20 for each night spent in Egypt. Exports and Export Proceeds Apart from exports to South Afr ica, which are pro- hibited, and commodities required for the national economy that may be restricted, exports may be made free of license. Exports of many products are organized and supervised by foreign trade committees. Cotton, rice, and petroleum are exported by the public sector only. Export proceeds other than those from books, news- papers, and other publications must be repatriated within three months from the date of shipment of the goods. Within specified limits, export proceeds may be retained in Foreign Exchange Retention Accounts. Proceeds from exports to bilateral payments agreement countries must be obtained in accordance with the provisions of the relevant agreement. Some exports to specified countries may be settled through indemnity accounts. Proceeds from Invisibles Earnings abroad by persons other than the Egyptian Government, public authorities, and public sector entities may be held abroad or retained indefinitely in Free Accounts. Within specified limits, receipts from the provision of local hotel, transport, or travel agency services to tourists may be retained in Foreign Exchange Retention Accounts. Many public sector and other entities are permitted to retain all or part of their receipts from invisibles in Foreign Exchange Retention Accounts, and in many instances are exempt f rom the periodic sur- render requirements applied to these accounts. Certain travel in Egypt by foreigners may be financed f rom various special accounts, such as those under indemn i ty agreements with certain countries. Persons arriving in Egypt from abroad may import up to LE 20 in Egyptian banknotes and are permitted to bring in, and to use locally, unlimited amounts in foreign exchange; a customs declaration is required if the traveler wishes to re-export foreign currency or use it to open a Free Account. Foreign travelers must convert into Egyptian currency the equivalent of LE 100 to obtain an entry visa. Capital Egyptian nationals who have deposited foreign earn- ings in Free Accounts in Egyptian banks may use this foreign exchange for any purpose, including transfer abroad. With this exception, outward capital transfers are restricted. Egyptian emigrants are authorized to transfer abroad funds up to LE 900 a person or LE 3,500 a family, to take out jewelry and other valuables up to LE 200 a person or LE 500 a family, and to export 146 other personal effects and fu rn i tu re up to LE 200 a person or LE 500 a family. Authorized banks are empowered to import, export, and negotiate securities and to effect transfers related to the sale or purchase of either Egyptian or foreign securities. Brokers registered on the stock exchanges of Cairo and Alexandria are authorized to intermediate in the t rans fer of ownership of securities, whether at home or abroad, and to undertake the local collection or pay- ment in foreign currency of the value of the securities. Foreign and joint-venture banks are required to ensure that 15 per cent of the ir foreign currency deposits can be made available on call, if necessary, by the Central Bank. Transfers of accrued alimony are permitted in accordance with court orders. An amount not exceeding LE 5,000 a family —irrespective of whether the sum is made up of capital or income —may be released from a fam i ly's assets in Egypt to persons of foreign nationality who leave the country permanently af ter a period of residence of at least five years. Any amount above this limit is credited to a Nonconvertible Capital Account. Any payment of a capital na ture not remittable under the exchange control regulations must be credited to a Nonconvertible Capital Account. Law No. 43 of June 19, 1974 (amended by Law No. 32 of June 9, 1977) Concerning the Investment of A rab and Foreign Funds and the Free Zones defines the treatment of new foreign investments. Requests for transfers of profits not covered by this law are con- sidered on an individual basis. Gold Authorized banks are empowered to buy, sell, and keep abroad gold ( inc lud ing gold coin) and other precious metals for the account of customers entitled to hold Free Accounts. Authorized banks may import such gold and other precious metals for local deposit and may subsequently re-export them. Certain persons other than the monetary authorities, including authorized indus tr ial users, are allowed to import precious metals and stones for industrial and local market requirements. Exports of gold and silver fabrics are permitted, pro- vided that the sales proceeds are repatriated in con- vertible currency. Travelers are permitted to take out and br ing in gold jewelry within specified limits. There is a free market for gold coin in Cairo. Changes during 1980 January 1. The bilateral payments agreement with the German Democratic Republic was terminated. February 29. Law No. 66 abolishing the laws boy- cotting Israel was enacted. April 10. The bilateral payments agreement with the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen was terminated. April 18. Exchange and trade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe (formerly Rhodesia) were lifted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT May 10. Customs duties were abolished or reduced on several import items, in particular, agricultural machinery, construction materials, and foodstuffs. June 4. Ministerial Decree No. 15 of 1980 was issued, requiring that advance payment in convertible currency be made to local banks up to specified percentages in respect of imports financed with "own exchange"; the percentage was fixed at 25 per cent for certain food items, 40 per cent for production inputs other than transportation equipment, and 100 per cent for other items. Simultaneously, the Open General License sys- tem was abolished, and "own exchange" imports were exempted from payment in foreign currency of customs duties and fees. July 1. With effect from this date, foreign and joint- ven ture banks were required to ensure that 15 per cent of their foreign currency deposits could be made avail- able on call, if necessary, by the Central Bank. August 31. In a modification of regulations governing Foreign Exchange Retention Accounts, Ministerial Decree No. 165 of 1980 was issued, limiting the amounts to be retained to 10 per cent for public sector entities and 25 per cent for the private sector; the maximum retention period before obligatory surrender was rede- fined as one month and six months, respectively. (Several public sector entities, however, were still exempted from these surrender requirements.) 147 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of El Salvador is the Salvadoran Colon, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the in terven t ion cur- rency, at (22.50 = US$1. The rates of the Central Reserve Bank for transactions with the public are (2 2.49 buying and (22 .51 selling, per US$1. Exchange trans- actions by commercial banks with the pub l ic take place within these limits. Buy ing and selling rates for other currencies are based on the daily quotations for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. A stamp tax of 0.1 per cent is applicable to all sales of exchange; on amoun ts below (2 100,000, the tax is levied at fixed amoun ts that may be slightly in excess of 0.1 per cent. On November 6, 1946, El Salvador notified the Fund that it was prepared to fo rma l ly accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Subject to any directives issued by the Mone tary Board, exchange control authority is exercised by the Central Reserve Bank through its Exchange Control Department. Authority to approve certain payments, including most impo rt payments not exceeding US$20,000 (US$2,000 for imports f rom other Central American Common Market (CACM) l coun t r ies ), is delegated to the commercial banks. For certain com- modities, such approval is subject to prior authorization by the Exchange Control Department of the Central Reserve Bank. Approval for imports f rom other CACM countries va lued at less than US$500 is delegated to the commercial banks, without prior authorization by the Central Reserve Bank. Exports of a number of com- modities require licenses issued by the Ministry of Econ- omy, subject to agreement by the M in is try of Agricul- ture. Since Janua ry 30, 1980 exports of major commodities have been under government supervision. Exports of sugar are governed by the Institute Nacional de Azucar ( INA ZUCAR ), and those of coffee are gov- erned by the Institute Nacional de Cafe ( IN CA F E ). Prescription of Currency Payments to other member countries of CACM in respect of trade and specified invisibles must be settled in the currencies of those countries or in Salvadoran colones through the Central American Clearing House. Payments to Mexico are also settled through the Clear- ing House. Otherwise, residents are free to make authorized payments in any currency they choose. Nonresident Accounts Accredited diplomatic missions and other foreign institutions or persons established in El Salvador may 1 Costa Rica, Gua tema la, Honduras, and Nicaragua. 148 hold nonresident accounts in foreign currency with authorized banks provided that such accounts are credited w i th foreign exchange received f rom abroad. Banks may also f ree ly open foreign currency accounts, for any period of time and in any amoun t, in the names of physical persons (whe ther of fo re ign or Salvadoran n a t ion a l i ty) who reside abroad and, for a max imum period of six months, in the names of fo re ign persons s tay ing in El Salvador for a period not exceeding six months. All non re s ident accounts may be u t i l ized free ly, but the commerc ial banks must make periodic reports to the Cen t ral Reserve Bank of the movemen ts on such accounts. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are issued by the M in i s t ry of Economy and are required for only a few items, inc lud ing air- planes, f i rea rms, ammun i t ion, m i l i ta ry equ ipmen t, dyna- m i te, cotton for indu s t r ial use, ju te sacks, sk ins, leather, some chemical and pha rmaceu t ical products, coffee for seeding, sugar, and saccharin. Imports va lued at US$500 or more f rom all coun tr ies must be registered w i th the Cen tral Reserve Bank before orders are placed; orders for impo r ts f rom countries outside Cen t ral Amer ica must be approved by the Exchange Control Depar tmen t. For certain goods that are considered l u x u ry com- modities ( in c lud ing a irp lanes, boats, alcoholic beverages, tobacco, perfumes, cosmetics, watches, jewe lry, auto- mobiles, fu rn i tu r e, domestic appliances, rugs, photo- graph ic equ ipmen t, and f u r s ), and rep resen t ing about 4 per cent of the total va lue of impor ts, the Exchange Control Depa r tment cannot au tho r ize impo r ta t ion, unless an advance deposit requirement, equ iva lent to 200 per cent of the c.i.f. va lue, is met in local currency. In add i t ion, the c.i.f. va lue of the goods being impo r ted must be paid at the t ime of import reg is tra t ion. Impor ts f rom coun tr ies outside the CACM that apply d isc r im ina to ry restrictions against exports f rom El Sal- vador must be paid for before customs clearance, with the exception of indus t r ial raw materials, wh ich may be paid for w i th in three years (medicines f rom Mexico may be paid for w i th in 90 days; this applies also to impor ts of spare parts from Mexico by importers who are regarded as small en te rp r ises ). For commercial imports, the commercial banks are au thor ized to prov ide exchange for all import paymen ts up to US$20,000 (US$2,000 for imports o r ig ina t ing in CACM coun t r ies) for each order. When suppliers abroad request payment in advance, a prior deposit of 10 per cent, calculated on the value of the advance paymen t, is required f rom the importer as a guaran tee, but those goods subject to the 200 per cent prior import ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution deposit, goods valued at US$500 or less, and imports by industrial and agricultural firms may be exempted. Guarantee deposits are refunded when the goods arrive in the country, provided that payment has been made in full to the exporter. In addition, all imports exceed- ing US$2,000 that are paid for by letters of credit or drafts (cobranzas) are subject to a 10 per cent prior deposit. The deposit may be made in cash at the Cen- tral Bank or any authorized bank. If the importer so desires, a bond issued or guaranteed by the Govern- ment or a guarantee by a bank in an amount equal to 10 per cent of his average mon th ly imports may be deposited instead of cash. Imports from other Central American countries, when covered by the Free Trade Agreement, are exempt from the exchange control regulations described above. Imports from Panama that are covered by the Free Trade Agreement of June 2, 1970 also are exempt. Under the provisions of the Central American Agree- ment on Fiscal Incentives, El Salvador gran ts du ty exonerations on imports of raw materials and capital goods to approved industrial firms. Imports originating outside the CACM are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import du ty; the surcharge is not applied to certain indus tr ial equipment and raw materials that are free of duty under the Indus t r ial Incentive Law. Many nones- sential goods are subject to a selective consumption tax, at rates of 5, 10, 20, 25, or 30 per cent. Goods of Central American origin are exempt. Payments for Invisibles With prior authorization from the Central Reserve Bank, the commercial banks may sell foreign exchange for subscriptions to foreign literary societies, corre- spondence courses, and memberships in professional clubs and organizations; on the same basis, they are also authorized to sell foreign exchange for travel for tourism, or business, as indicated below. The basic exchange allocation for adults which banks may make available for travel outside the Central Amer- ican area (interpreted to mean CACM coun tr ies) is US$100 a person a day up to a max imum of US$500 for travel by air. The maximum is US$100, if the air- plane ticket is for one-way passage only. For travel by land, the daily allocation is US$50, up to a max imum of US$250. The allocation for travel by air within the Central American area is US$60 a day, up to a maxi- mum of US$240, and the flat entitlement for one-way airplane passage is US$60. For travel by land, the daily allocation is US$30 a person a tr ip up to a max imum of US$120. Only one vacation t r ip w i th in a total entitle- ment of US$1,000 a person a year is permitted. For children (16 years or less), the en t i t lement is one half of the ceilings specified above. Add i t ional amoun ts up to a max imum of US$1,000 may be authorized by the EL SALVADOR Exchange Control Depa r tmen t, provided that a gua ran- tee deposit in local currency correspond ing to 40 per cent of the excess over the basic a l loca t ion is lodged with the Central Reserve B ank; the deposit is released upon the traveler's re tu rn provided he has spent at least 20 days abroad. In addition to the basic exchange allo- cation, fo re ign exchange is made ava i lab le to cover medical and hospital expenses abroad up to US$3,000, subject to a 100 per cent pr ior deposit and sub s tan t ia t ion th rough medical ce r t i f ica t ion, b i l ls, receipts, and other pe r t inent documents. This l im it also may be exceeded w i th the approval of the Cen tral Reserve B a n k, provided that proof of add i t ional medical expenses is subm i t ted. With the prior au tho r iza t ion of the Cen tral Reserve Bank, local banks are au thor ized to sell fo re ign exchange up to US$300 a person a mon th for educa t ion expenses of un ive r s i ty s tuden ts and up to US$200 or the equ iva- lent in other currencies for n o n u n i v e r s i ty s tuden ts. Local banks are also au tho r ized to sell exchange for s tudy purposes in add i t ion to the above quo ta, subject to the approval of the Cen tral Reserve Bank, which requires p resen ta t ion of evidence of i n s t a l l a t i on expenses, tu i t ion costs, and other expenses. The sale of fo re ign exchange for f am i ly assistance to persons r e s id ing abroad is not p e rm i t t ed. For Sa lvado ran n a t ion a ls t rave l ing to Central Am e r i c an coun t r ies, the comme rc ial banks have auhor i ty to p rov ide exchange up to the amoun ts men- t ioned above in Costa R ican colones, H o n d u r an lempi- ras, N ica raguan cordobas, or Gu a t em a l an quetzales, or a cashier's check in Salvadoran colones ( f or se t t lement through the Cen tral Ame r ican Clearing House ). Requests for larger amoun ts must be subm i t ted for approval to the Cen t ral Reserve Bank. In t e rn a t ion al sea and air passages are subject to a t ravel tax of 10 per cent of the pr ice of the t icke t; off ic ial or d ip loma t ic travel is exempt. Insu rance and re insurance p rem iums may be paid in fo re ign exchange, provided that the in su rance contract was registered w i th the Exchange Control Depar tment at the time it took effec t. A l terna t ive ly, insurance com- panies may receive p rem iums in colones and pe r iod ica l ly ob ta in f rom the Exchange Con trol Depa r tment au thor i- zation to purchase the fo re ign currenc ies they are obliged to t r an s f er abroad. Foreign currenc ies derived f rom insurance or re insu rance con t rac ts must be sur- rendered to the Central Reserve Bank or to an author- ized commercial bank. Travelers may take out (2 200 in domestic notes and coin. This l im it is subject to mod i f i- cation, however, to fac i l i ta te border t rade w i th o ther Central Ame r ican countries. Non res ident trave lers may upon d ep a r tu re reconvert (2 200 in to fo r e ign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not requ ired except for some food s tu f fs and other items for wh ich the au tho r i t ies wish to ensure an adequate local supply, but the proceeds of 149 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR all exports must be received through a bank in El Salva- dor and the foreign exchange must be surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank or an authorized commercial bank. Export transactions must be declared to the Exchange Control Department before shipment. The collection term normally must not exceed 90 days, but longer credit terms may be authorized by the Exchange Control Department. With the exception of sales to "new markets," exports of coffee and sugar are subject to export tax. An export registration certificate from the Central Reserve Bank is required, prior to clearance through customs, for exports in excess of US$500 to CACM countries and for exports in excess of US$2,000 to countries outside the CACM area. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered to the Central Reserve Bank or an authorized commercial bank. Travelers may bring in @ 200 in domestic notes and coin. This limit is subject to modifi- cation, however, to facilitate border trade with other Central American countries. Capital All exchange receipts resulting from capital transac- tions must be surrendered to the monetary authorities. Payments abroad representing capital movements require exchange licenses; such licenses are not granted for resi- dent-owned capital except for investments by private individuals in Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua. The entry of capital with a ma tu r i ty in excess of one year in the form of foreign investment must be registered with the Ministry of Economy. Regis- tration ensures (1) free remittance of net profits on for- eign capital invested in industrial enterprises, enterprises engaged in the extraction of nonrenewable na tural resources, and enterprises in the field of tourism; ( 2) the remittance of net profits of enterprises engaged in other activities up to a limit of 10 per cent a year of the registered capital (larger amounts may be authorized in special cases by the Ministry of Economy); (3) repatriation of the proceeds from the total or partial liquidation of the enterprise (af ter payment of taxes) in proportion to the participation of foreign capital in the total capital; (4) remittance of the sales proceeds of shares and other instruments representing investments or participations, including capital gains; and (5) pay- ment of interest and amortization as determined at the time of registration. In the cases under (3) and (4 ), in addition to the approval of the Exchange Control Department, the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy is required. Foreign investments made in El Salvador prior to June 1, 1961 must also be registered by the Ministry of Economy or the Exchange Control Department. The Exchange Control Department authorizes, with- out restriction, the remittance abroad of foreign cur- rency for the payment of interest and amortization on 150 short-term loans f rom abroad; foreign loans with a ma tu r i ty of up to one year must be authorized by the Central Reserve Bank, while fo re ign loans with a matu- rity of more than one year must be authorized by the Ministry of Economy. Decree No. 279 of March 27, 1969 sets certain mini- mum capital requirements for businesses that are owned by foreign nationals and for those in which foreign nationals have a shareholding interest. For purposes of this decree, fore ign nationals are defined as persons who are not citizens of one of the five CACM countries. Gold Gold coins in denominations of 0 25, 0 50, <Z 100, and (£ 200 have been issued as legal tender, but do not circulate. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in El Salvador for num isma t ic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the mone ta ry authorities are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Reserve Bank; such licenses are granted for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. In practice, imports of nonmone tary unworked gold are made only by jewelers' cooperatives acting on behalf of the ir mem- bers and other users. Changes during 1980 February 8. It was decreed that the amoun ts of local currency brought in or taken out of El Salvador must be declared at customs. February 18. The collection of fore ign exchange proceeds f rom exports of coffee, cotton, sugar, shrimp, and meat was centralized in the Central Reserve Bank. February 18. Amortization and interest payments in respect of fore ign credits contracted directly or guar- anteed by banks and credit institutions became subject to pr ior authorization of the Central Reserve Bank. February 18. The prior import deposit requirement was raised from 100 per cent to 200 per cent for the following goods: alcoholic beverages, tobacco, perfumes and toilet articles, fu rs, rugs, jewelry, firearms, airplanes, certain boats, certain domestic appliances, photographic equipment, watches, and sound equipment. On the same date, a prior import deposit requirement of 100 per cent was introduced on the following i tems: statues and similar ornamental products, silver, platinum, jewelry settings, certain radios and television sets, cer- tain boats, wooden or metal fu rn i tu re, travel articles, slippers, and optical instruments. February 18. The basic monthly allocation for stu- dents abroad was reduced to US$300. Additional amounts for a total allocation of up to the previous limit of US$600 may be authorized by the Central Reserve Bank. The monthly allocation for fam i ly remit- tances remained at US$600 for adults, but was reduced to US$150 for children. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution February 21. Several amendments to the Law on Control of International Transfers were made by Decree No. 128. The most impor tant change prov ided that the fines levied by the Central Reserve Bank (with the approval of the M in is try of Economy) for infractions of the law shall have "executive force," thereby admit- ting no recourse to jud ic ial review. November 10. Significant changes were made in the exchange and trade system, involving the following main areas: (1) For travel expenses within the CACM area, the daily foreign exchange allocation for travel by land was lowered f rom US$50 to US$30, up to a maximum of US$120. A max imum exchange entitlement of US$60 was introduced for one-way travel by air. (2) For travel expenses outside the CACM area, the maximum exchange entitlement for each trip by air was lowered from US$800 to US$500, and the daily alloca- tion for travel by land was reduced from US$100 to US$50. A max imum exchange entitlement of US$100 was also introduced for one-way travel by air and US$250 for travel by land. EL SALVADOR (3) The annual foreign exchange entitlement for travel was reduced f rom US$2,000 a person to US$1,000 a person, and only one exchange authorization a year was permitted for vacation travel. (4) In exceptional cases only, the Exchange Control Department may authorize for vacation travel additional amoun ts in excess of US$500, in which case the prior deposit requirement would be 40 per cent. (5) Foreign exchange purchases over and above the basic travel allocations for expenses of medical and hos- pital treatment abroad were l im i ted to a max imum of US$3,000 and became subject to a 100 per cent prior deposit w i th the Central Bank. (6) The sale of foreign exchange for fam i ly assistance abroad was temporarily suspended. ( 7) For nonuniversity students abroad, a monthly for- eign exchange allotment of US$200 a mon th for educa- tional expenses was established. ( 8) The list of nonessential imports (list 2) and those luxury commodities (list 1) that were subject to the 200 per cent deposit requirement was expanded. Fur- thermore, nonessential imports appearing in list 2 were temporarily banned for 90 days. 151 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Equatorial Gu inea is the Equatorial Guinean Ekuele,1 which is issued by the Bank of Equa- torial Guinea (the central b ank ). The ekuele replaced the Equatorial Guinean peseta and was at par with the Spanish peseta, which was Equatorial Guinea's inter- vention currency until July 12, 1977, when the Spanish peseta was devalued. Following the exchange rate action by Spain, Equatorial Guinea suspended exchange operations with the exception of some small transactions that took place on the basis of a fixed relationship between the ekuele and a currency basket. From April 9, 1979 to August 5, 1979 the ekuele was pegged to the SDR at the rate of EK 90 = SDR 1. From August 6, 1979 to June 20, 1980 the ekuele was pegged at par to the Spanish peseta, i.e., EK 1 = Pta 1. On June 21, 1980 the ekuele was depreciated to a rate of EK 1 = Pta 0.5. There are no forward exchange facilities. There are no bank charges or commissions, but exchange taxes of 10, 17.5, 20, 25, and 35 per cent are levied on certain transfers abroad. Administration of Control Exchange control au thor i ty is exercised by the Bank of Equatorial Gu inea, and exchange transactions must be carried out through that Bank. Import and export licenses are issued by the Technical Directorate of Foreign Trade in the M in is try of Finance and Com- merce. The Executive Committee for Economic Policy (CEPE), composed of the Technical Secretary of the M in is try of Finance and Commerce, the Governor of the Bank of Equatorial Guinea, and a representative of the Presidency, is in charge of approving a monthly import license budget and overseeing its implementation. Import licenses approved by the Ministry of Finance and Commerce are forwarded to the Bank of Equatorial Guinea, and the Bank, in turn, passes them on to the importer and to the local bank at which the importer is to open the necessary letters of credit. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries are made in convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments All commercial imports require an import license. Licenses normally are issued within the framework of an annual import program and a mon th ly license budget approved by the Executive Committee for Economic Policy. The importer is allowed 30 days to open the necessary letters of credit at a local bank, after which the license may be canceled by the Bank of Equatorial Guinea. Imports must be made within three months 1 In March 1981 Equatorial Guinea replaced the ekuele by a new currency, the epkwele, at the ra te of one to one. 152 f rom the date of the opening of the letters of credit. The Bank of Equa tor ial Gu inea de term ines whe ther an import should be charged against the Spanish credit lines, and fo rwa rd s, if necessary, the licenses d irec t ly to FOCOEX (a Spanish institute for the promotion of foreign trade) for fu r th er processing. In principle, foreign exchange is automatically made available upon the arrival of the goods in Equatorial Guinea; most import payments are effected under irrevocable letters of credit. All imports are subject to a prior payment covering the fu ll amount of the applicable import duty. Final assess- ment of the import tax is made at the time of registration of the import payment upon declaration of the arr ival of the goods. Existing import regulations apply to all imports by pr iva te firms as well as by state enterprises and the Government. Payments for Invisibles All payments for cu r rent invisibles require the prior approval of the Bank of Equatorial Guinea. Residents2 are, in principle, granted fo re ign exchange up to the equivalent of EK 25,000 a person a calendar year for tourist travel abroad; only one t r ip a year is allowed for this purpose. The s tanda rd allocation for business travel is the equivalent of EK 50,000 a tr ip, and only two trips a year are allowed. For s tudy abroad and travel abroad for health reasons, foreign exchange is, in principle, granted to cover reasonable costs. Resi- dents may, in principle, send fam i ly remittances up to 30 per cent of the ir taxable earnings and wages. In principle, enterprises classified as "of national interest" (see section on Capital, below) may transfer abroad freely up to 25 per cent per annum of the net investment income generated by their exporting activi- ties. Any additional transfer is subject to a tax of 20 per cent. The transfer abroad of net investment income by enterprises classified as "of preferential interest" is subject to a 20 per cent tax. Any other enterprise with foreign capital participation may t rans fer net investment income, but such t rans fe rs are subject to a tax of 35 per cent on the amount transferred. In the event of at least 30 per cent of such net investment income being rein- vested in Equatorial Guinea, the incidence of tax is reduced to one third its normal level. Interests on foreign loans utilized for direct investment may be remitted semiannually, subject to a tax of 8 per cent. Branches and subsidiaries of foreign companies estab- lished in Equatorial Gu inea may t ran s fer to their parent companies abroad, on account of general expenses, an amount not exceeding 10 per cent of the net annual prof- its of the branch or subsidiary. Transfers abroad in respect of patents, trademarks, and royalties are, in 2 Residents are denned as persons rema in ing in Equatorial Gu inea for more than six months in a calendar year or for more than six months in two consecutive calendar years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution principle, permitted freely, subject to prior review by the Bank of Equatorial Guinea and to a tax of 25 per cent of the amount remitted. Travelers may not take out more than EK 1,000 a person in domestic banknotes. Residents may only take out foreign banknotes and coin acquired f rom the Bank of Equatorial Guinea. Nonresidents may take out foreign banknotes and coin up to the amount that they declared at the time of entry. Any excess, however, may be authorized if appropriate documentation is pre- sented that the excess was ob t a in ed , f rom a resident in a lawful manner. Exports and Export Proceeds All commercial exports require an export license. Licenses are normally valid for three months. All export proceeds must be surrendered to the Bank of Equatorial Gu inea within 45 days of the ir receipt. Although exports can be freely effected by any licensed exporter, the Chambers of Commerce, Agriculture, and Forestry of Bioko and Rio Mun i, which operate as private, non- profit, cooperative associations, have ju r isd ic t ion over the marke t ing of most agricultural exports. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be sur- rendered to the Bank of Equatorial Guinea within 15 days. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coin, but the import of domestic cur- rency by travelers is limited to EK 1,000 a person. Capital All imports and exports of capital require approval by the Bank of Equatorial Guinea. In addition, all exports and imports of capital by the State must be subject to a prior evaluation by the Executive Committee for Eco- nomic Policy. Capital receipts in foreign currency must be surrendered to the Bank of Equatorial Guinea. The approval of a foreign loan contract automatically gives the right to the borrower to make payments abroad for interests, commissions, and amor t iza t ion specified in the approved contract. Without the explicit approval of the Bank of Equa- torial Guinea, no Equatorial Gu inean companies or per- sons residing in Equatorial Guinea may hold accounts iri foreign currency either in local or in foreign banks. For- eign residents in Equa tor ial Gu inea are subject to the same regulation only with regard to the foreign exchange acquired as a result of their activities in Equatorial Guinea; they may hold foreign currency accounts in local or in foreign banks with regard to foreign exchange acquired as a result of activities carried out abroad. EQUATORIAL GUINEA These provisions apply also with regard to the proceeds from exports and from invisibles. Under the Foreign Investment Law of November 17, 1979 three categories of foreign investment are recog- nized: (1) investments "of national interest" (mainly in industrial or forestry enterprises engaged in the export t r ad e ); (2) investments "of preferen t ial interest" (mainly in enterprises engaged in import substitution); and (3) nonqualified investments. Investments by nationals of or entities domiciled in South Afr ica are prohibited. All foreign investments require the approval of the Presidency. If authorization is given by the Presi- dency, the Government or citizens of Equatorial Guinea may own stocks of foreign enterprises established in Equatorial Guinea not exceeding 25 per cent of the cap- ital. The fore ign share in Equatorial Gu inean enterprises might exceed 50 per cent of the capital. Foreign loans and capital utilized for financing direct investment may be repatriated annua l ly up to the amortization of fixed assets, free of taxes. The t r an s f er abroad of f u n ds from the sale of fixed assets and financial assets by alien resi- dents or by nonres iden ts is, in principle, permitted as follows: 50 per cent of the total amount realized net of taxes may be remitted abroad immediately and the bal- ance in 24 equal mon th ly ins ta l lmen ts. The sale of real estate, however, requires prior approval. Gold All purchases and sales of minted gold and gold bars are centralized in the Bank of Equatorial Guinea, which also has a monopoly over the import and export of minted gold and gold bars. Commemorative gold coins in denom ina t ions of Equatorial Guinean pesetas 250, 500, 750, 1,000, and 5,000 are legal tender. Except for these coins and jewelry, residents are not permitted to hold gold. Changes during 1980 April 18. Exchange and t rade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe ( fo rm e r ly Rhodes ia) were l if ted. June 21. The ekuele was depreciated f rom EK 1 = Pta 1 to EK 1 = Pta 0.5. June 21. A new exchange control law, superseding the law of December 1, 1979, came into effect; it clari- fied and s imp l if ied ex is t ing provisions. December 17. As pa rt of a wide-ranging set of meas- ures, legislation was in t roduced which, in ter alia, revised the customs law, imposed minimum prices for wood exports, and created an Executive Committee for Economic Policy with the au thor i ty to approve a monthly impo rt license budget and to oversee its imple- mentation. 153 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ethiopia is the Ethiopian Birr, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at the official rate of Br 2.07 = US$1. Buying and sell- ing rates for certain other currencies are also officially posted, with daily quotations by the National Bank of Ethiopia ( the central b ank) on the basis of the official rate for the U.S. dollar and the previous day's closing rate of the currency concerned against the U.S. dollar in London. The National Bank does not deal with the public; its dealings in U.S. dollars with the authorized banks take place at the official rate. In dealing with the public, authorized banks must observe the official rate for the U.S. dollar and prescribed commission charges, which accrue to the National Bank, of 0.50 per cent buying and 1.50 per cent selling; in add i t ion, they are authorized, but not obliged, to levy service charges for their own account of up to 0.25 per cent buy ing and 0.75 per cent selling and, for currencies other than the U.S. dollar, to include the margin charges applied by their correspondents abroad. In practice, the authorized charges are usually levied. These commissions are applied also to the National Bank's dealings with the Government and certain public sector entities. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized banks require the approval of the National Bank to under take fo rwa rd exchange trans- actions. Administration of Control All transactions in foreign exchange must be carried out through authorized banks under the control of the National Bank. All payments abroad require licenses issued by the Exchange Controller, whose office is a division of the National Bank. All exports are licensed by the Exchange Controller to ensure the surrender of the foreign exchange proceeds, and shipments require permits issued by that office. The Minister of Foreign Trade has statutory authority to prohibit, restrict, or regulate imports and exports. Prescription of Currency Outgoing payments are normally made in convertible foreign exchange appropriate to the country of the recipient or in U.S. dollars. The net proceeds of exports must be received in a foreign currency that is freely convertible, or in any other acceptable foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may, subject to exchange control ap- proval, open nonresident accounts either in birr or in foreign currencies at authorized banks. Deposits to these accounts can only be made in foreign exchange. Balances on nonresident foreign currency accounts may be freely transferred abroad. Transfers between non- resident accounts do not require prior approval. Mem- 154 bers of the diplomatic community must use transferable or nontransferable birr accounts for payments of local expenses. No resident Ethiopian na t ional may maintain a bank account abroad. Blocked accounts of nonresidents are maintained with authorized banks and are used to retain funds in excess of Br 20,000 arising from disinvestments in Ethiopia (see section on Capital, be low ). Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom South Afr ica are prohibited. Pay- ments abroad for imports require exchange licenses, which are obtainable upon presentation of a valid importers license. Approval of applications for exchange licenses is conditional upon the provision of satisfactory informa t ion on costs and payment terms, and the submission of evidence that adequate insurance has been arranged with the Ethiopian Insurance Cor- poration, particularly for goods imported under letters of credit. Foreign exchange is not made available for imports of goods ( inc lud ing alcoholic beverages and other consumer goods) considered to be nonessential or readily substitutable by domestic products. Exchange licenses are granted in the currency appropriate to the country of origin, or in any convertible currency that may be requested. Payments by letter of credit, mail transfer, telegraphic transfer, or cash against documents at sight are all normally acceptable. However, the National Bank must be consulted regarding imports on a cash against documents basis. Goods which were previously subject to advance deposit requirements (about 100 items, mostly consumer goods) may not be financed on an acceptance basis, and v ir tua l ly no imports take place on this basis. Importation on suppliers' credit is prohibited except for goods such as raw and inter- mediate materials, Pharmaceuticals, and machinery and transport equipment, in which case prior approval of the terms and conditions of the credit is required. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses. Invisibles connected with t rade transactions are treated on the same basis as the goods to which they relate. Foreign employees may remit monthly up to 30 per cent of their net earnings (but only for the first three years of their contract if employed by the private sector); they may remit a max imum ranging between 40 per cent and 50 per cent of total net earnings dur ing the period of service and upon final departure. Other expatriate employees may on final departure take out the same maximum amoun t, but not more than Br 20,000 in any one year. Foreign nationals who are not entitled to remittance facilities may, however, remit up to 30 per cent of their net earnings for the education of their children. Persons traveling abroad are allowed foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exchange equivalent to Br 125 a day for a maximum period of 30 days in any one calendar year if the journey is made for business purposes; for tourism, persons 18 years of age or over are allowed up to the equivalent of Br 600 a year. Students are allowed foreign exchange up to the equivalent of Br 500 for study abroad and Ethiopian nationals having dependents pur- suing higher studies in accredited institutions abroad are allowed to remit funds to meet school fees and reasonable expenses. Residents may remit premiums on insurance policies taken out before Apr il 1962. Subject to certain limits and to submission of evidence, persons may obtain foreign exchange for medical treat- ment and travel abroad. A f t er providing for payment of local taxes, foreign companies may, in principle, remit dividends on their invested and reinvested capital in any currency. Travelers may take with them a maxi- mum of Br 50 in Ethiopian banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South A f r ica are prohibited. Exports of most cereals to any destination other than Djibouti also are prohibited. Exports of horsebeans are sus- pended. All commodity exports require permits f rom the Exchange Controller and some require, in addition, the approval of specified public bodies. When applying for a permit, an exporter must specify the goods to be exported, the destination, and the value. For exports on a c.i.f. basis, exporters must obtain fu ll insu rance from the Ethiopian Insurance Corporation. The gran t ing of a permit by the Exchange Controller enables the goods to pass through customs. The licensing system is used to ensure that foreign exchange receipts are surrendered to the Na t ional Bank, generally w i th in three months, and that export proceeds are received in an appropriate currency (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in Br 50 in Ethiopian currency. Foreign exchange must be declared by tra- velers on entry, and its re-export is subject to authoriza- tion, except for temporary visitors. Reconversion of birr must be supported by documentary evidence of prior exchange of fore ign currency. ETHIOPIA lation of external debt, and to keep the authorities informed of the country's external debt position. All receipts of capital in the fo rm of foreign exchange must be surrendered. Exchange control authorization is required, and registration of capital inflows with the exchange control authorities establishes evidence of receipt, which is required for repa tr ia t ion. Foreign capital may participate with the Government in speci- fied areas, such as large-scale construction, tourism, and the exploration for and produc t ion of hydrocarbons and most other minerals. All recognized and registered foreign investments may be term ina ted on presentation of documents regarding liquidation and payment of all taxes and other liabilities. Subject to appropr ia te docu- mentation, foreign businessmen having nonregistered investments may t r a n s f er their capital abroad on liquida- tion and final departure from Ethiopia, but may not transfer more th an Br 20,000 in any one calendar year; funds in excess of this amount must be deposited in a blocked account w i th an au thor ized bank. Transfers by emigrants who had operated their own businesses are restricted to Br 20,000 in any one calendar year. Borrowing abroad requires exchange control approval and is restricted. Authorized banks may freely place their funds abroad, except on fixed-term deposit, but they may not acquire securities denom ina ted in foreign currency without Na t ional Bank permission. In addi- tion, they need the prior approval of the National Bank to overdraw their accounts with foreign correspondents, to borrow funds abroad, or to accept deposits in foreign currency. Gold The ownership of personal jewelry of which gold or platinum forms a part is permitted. Unless specifically authorized by the Minister of Mines, Energy, and Water Resources, the possession or custody of 50 ounces or more of raw or refined gold or p la t inum, or of gold or p la t inum in the fo rm of nuggets, ores, or bu l l ion, is not perm i t ted. Newly mined gold is sold by the Treasury to the National Bank. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange licenses issued by the National Bank. Such licenses are not norma l ly granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Capital Controls over capital movements are designed to restrict outflows, to preclude an unwarranted accumu- Changes during 1980 March 13. Exchange and trade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe (formerly Rhodesia) were lifted. 155 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Fiji is the Fiji Dollar, the value of which is determined on the basis of the fixed relationship between the Fiji dollar and a weighted basket of cur- rencies of Fiji's most important trad ing par tners. The exchange rate of the Fiji dollar in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is fixed da i ly on the basis of quotations for the U.S. dollar and other curren- cies included in the basket. On December 31, 1980 buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were F$0.789515 and F$0.792644, respectively, per US$1. The Central Mone tary Au tho r i ty of Fiji provides official quotations only for the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fo re ign exchange. On August 4, 1972 Fiji fo rma l ly accepted the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Monetary Au thor i ty, acting as agent of the Govern- ment. The Central Monetary Au tho r i ty delegates to authorized dealers the au thor i ty to approve no rmal import payments. Except with the specific permission of the Central Monetary Au thor i ty, residents of Fiji are required to offer for sale to an au thor ized dealer all foreign currencies they receive.1 The M in is t ry of Com- merce, Industry, and Cooperatives is responsible for the issue of import licenses, with the exception of those for gold, which are issued by the M in i s t ry of Finance. Export licenses are issued by the Comptroller of Customs. Prescription of Currency Transactions with all countries are sub ject to exchange control. Settlements w i th residents of any country may be made in Fiji currency through an External Account or in any foreign currency. Payments for exports to any destination outside Fiji may be made in Fiji currency from an External Account or in any fore ign currency. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident2 may ma in ta in an External Account in Fiji currency or a foreign currency account with an authorized bank; such accounts may be opened without the specific approval of the Central Mone tary Au thor i ty. These accounts may be credited freely with interest pay- able on the account, with paymen ts f rom other External Accounts, with the proceeds of sale of fo re ign currency or foreign coin by the account holder, and with Fiji currency notes which the account holder brought in to Fiji or acquired by debit to an Ex ternal Account or by 1 Under Fiji's exchange control regulations, fore ign currencies are all currencies other than the Fiji dollar. aA nonresident is a person or firm whose coun t ry of normal domicile or established residence is a coun try outside Fiji. As rega rds individuals, a resident of Fiji is a person who either has lived or intends to continue living in Fiji for at least three years. 156 the sale of foreign currency in the country during a temporary visit. Ex ternal Accounts also may be credited with payments by residents for which either a general or a specific au tho r i ty has been g iven. Ex ternal Accounts may be debited for payments to residents of Fiji, trans- fers to other Ex ternal Accounts, payments in cash in Fiji, and purchases of fore ign exchange. Imports and Import Payments Imports of most goods are under open general license, although imports of a numb er of goods, in c lud ing certain foods tu f fs, seed potatoes, po lyv inyl chloride pipes, polypropylene ropes, and deodoran ts are subject to ind iv idual import l icens ing; licenses for some of these items are issued res tr ic t ive ly. Impo rt prohibitions are imposed on a few commodities f rom all sources, mainly for security, hea l th, or pub l ic policy reasons. Payments for au thor ized impo r ts are pe rm i t ted upon application and .submission of documen ta ry evidence to authorized dealers who may a l low paymen ts for goods wh ich have been impor ted u n d er e i ther a specific import license or an open general license. Au thor ized banks may allow advance paymen ts for all impor ts provided the goods are impo r ted in to F i ji w i th in 90 days of the date the payment is made. Payments for Invisibles Payments for inv is ib les are pe rm i t ted e i ther under a delegated au tho r i ty to banks or, where large amounts or nondelegated paymen ts are invo lved, upon application to the Central Mone ta ry Au tho r i ty. Payments may be made free ly for all bona fide cu r rent transac t ions. Resi- den ts of Fiji t rave l ing to other coun t r ies may obtain f rom a bank, w i thout reference to the Central Mone tary Au thor i ty, a fore ign cu r r en cy t ravel a l lowance for private or business travel up to the equivalent of F$2,000 a person a journey. For an extended visit, a trave ler may apply before his depa r tu re to the Central Monetary Au thor i ty for f u n ds in excess of F$2,000 a person; applications may also be made f rom abroad through the traveler's bank. There is no restriction on the num- ber of trips a resident may make in any one year. Each traveler may take w i th him F$100 in Fiji cu r rency and the equivalent of F$500 in other currencies, provided that these amoun ts are not in add i t ion to travel allow- ances approved by a b ank a n d / or the Cen tral Mone tary Authority. Exports and Export Proceeds Specific licenses are required on ly for expor ts of rice, sugar, wheat b ran, copra meal, ce r ta in lumbe r, scrap metals, certain an ima l s, and a few o ther i tems. Irrespec- tive of any export l icens ing requ i remen ts, however, exporters are requ ired to p r o d u ?e an export perm it for commercial cons ignment of all goods w i th an f.o.b. va lue exceeding F$ 1,000; this perm it is required for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exchange control purposes. Exporters are required to collect the proceeds of exports within six mon ths of the date of exportation of the goods from Fiji, and may not grant credit to a nonresident buyer in excess of six months without specific permission. All foreign cur- rencies must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer within one mon th of receipt. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered to authorized dealers. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in Fiji notes or foreign currency notes. Resi- dent travelers are required to sell their foreign currency holdings to an authorized dealer w i th in one month of return. Capital The inf low of capital in any fo rm requires specific permission of the Central Monetary Au tho r i ty. Foreign investment in Fiji norma l ly is expected to be financed from a nonresident source. Such foreign inves tment may be given "approved status," which guaran tees the right to repa tr ia te dividends and cap i ta l. All capital outflows are subject to prior approval. Capital t r an s f e rs by residents to f inance direct investments require the specific permission of the Central Mone tary Au thor i ty and are permitted only where benefits will accrue to Fiji within a reasonably short period. All authorized banks operating in Fiji are required to obtain prior au tho r iza t ion f rom the Cen tral Monetary Authority for transac t ions invo lv ing F$50,000 or more arising f rom ( 1) the conversion of foreign currency into Fiji currency whether for credit to a resident account or an External Account and (2) the cred i t ing of an External Account with Fiji currency emana t ing f rom another External Account ( inc lud ing Fiji currency accounts of overseas b ank s ). Banks also require the approval of the Central Mone tary Au tho r i ty before granting any loans to a company or b ranch in Fiji (other than a b a n k) which is controlled, whether directly or indirectly, by persons resident outside Fiji or by individuals designated as nonresidents; however, banks do not require such approval to lend up to F$5,000—for any period and any purpose —to ind iv idual nonresident customers. Banks may not lend foreign currency to any resident of Fiji w i thout the specific permission of the Central Monetary Au thor i ty, and residents require permission f rom the Central Mone tary Au tho r i ty before they may borrow foreign currency w i th in Fiji or outside. The transfer of inher i tances and dowries due to non- residents is permitted, as is the t rans fer of the proceeds from the sale of a house owned by a nonresident. Residents of Fiji are allowed to make cash gifts to non- residents equivalent to F$500 a donor a year; additional FIJI funds are permitted in compassionate cases. Em igran ts may take out their en t ire net assets on depa r tu re. With the prior approval of the Cen t ral Monetary Authority, residents are permitted to purchase foreign currency up to a max imum of F$5,000 a person a year to acquire fore ign currency securities. The purchase of personal real proper ty ou ts ide F i ji is not perm i t ted. Portfolio investment in F i ji by non r e s id en ts requires approval by the Central Mone tary Au tho r i ty; the pro- ceeds of the sale or rea l iza t ion of such investment may be repatriated. Banks requ ire exchange control permis- sion to borrow abroad; they may accept deposits f rom nonresidents. Gold Residents may f ree ly purchase, hold, and sell gold coin in Fiji but not gold bu l l ion. The export of gold coin, except num isma t ic coins and collectors' pieces, requires the specific permission of the Central Monetary Au thor i ty. Gold impor ts f rom a ll sources, other th an imports of gold coin, requ i re a specific import license issued by the M i n i s t ry of F inance; these are restricted to authorized gold dealers. Gold coin is f r ee of customs du ty and fiscal tax, wh i le gold b u l l i on is exempt f rom customs du ty but is subject to a fiscal tax of 7.5 per cent. Gold jewelry is subject to a fiscal du ty of 10 per cent but does not requ ire any license when valued at less than F$200; samples of gold and gold jewe l ry sent by fo re ign m anu f a c tu r e rs requ i re impo rt licenses if over F$200 in value. Exports of gold jewe l ry do not r e q u i re licenses and are f ree of export du ty. All new ly m ined gold is sold in Aus t ra l ia at free m a rk et prices. Commemora t ive gold coins of F$100, F$200, and F$250 have been issued; these are legal tender but do not n o rm a l ly circulate. Changes during 1980 February 1. The l im it on the am o u n ts of F i ji currency and foreign exchange that t rave le rs are a l lowed to carry out of Fiji was raised f rom F$50 and F$200, respec- tively, to F$100 and F$50Q, respectively. On the same day, the buy ing, selling, borrow ing, and lend ing of gold coin in Fiji became legal, and licenses for impor ts of gold coin were abolished. February 22. Import of certain types of candles was banned. April 30. A number of commodities were made subject to specific import licenses. June 27. Import du t ies on alcoholic beverages were raised. August 18. Import controls on po r t land cement were removed. November 14. Impo rt quotas were l i f ted in respect of passenger automobiles and other motor vehicles. 157 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Finland is the Finnish Markka. The external value of the markka is defined as a currency index number (1974 = 100) reflecting the average change in the exchange rates of the currencies most important for Finland's foreign trade. These currencies are defined as the currencies of those countries which have accounted forgot less than 1 per cent of the total of Finland's commodity irnports and exports in each of the last three calendar years. At the end of 1980 the upper fluctuation limit was 119.0 and the lower limit was 112.0. The Bank of Finland publishes the monthly average for the index af ter the end of each mon th. The fluctuation limits are set at 3 per cent on each side of the theoretical arithmetic mean. The average value of the currency index was 113.1 in December 1980. The buying and selling rates of the Bank of F in land for the U.S. dollar, the in terven t ion currency, on December 31, 1980 were Fmk3 .831 and Fmk 3.849, respectively, per US$1. The rates for the U.S. dollar are applicable also to clearing dollars. Buying and selling rates for the clearing ruble are based on the rates of the State Bank of the U.S.S.R. for the U.S. dollar against the ruble. Quotations for other currencies are based on market cross rates. There are no exchange taxes or subsidies. Authorized banks may deal among themselves, w i th residents, and with nonresident banks in U.S. dollars and other convertible currencies. Forward premiums and dis- counts quoted by authorized banks reflect interest rate differences in various currencies. The Bank of Finland quotes daily forward rates for the clearing ruble at which authorized banks may cover their contracts with residents in regard to transactions permitted by exchange control regulations. Finland formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund's Articles of Agreement, as from September 25, 1979. Administration of Control The Bank of Finland operates the exchange control system, delegating authority to the authorized exchange dealers (ma in ly commercial b ank s ). Import and export licensing is administered by the Export and Import Permits Office (a unit under the Ministry of Trade and Indus t ry ), which is headed by a Board composed of government officials, including a representative of the Bank of Finland. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into two groups: the bilateral countriesl and the xAt the end of 1980 Finland had bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, and U.S.S.R. 158 convertible currency countries (all o thers). Settlements with the bilateral countries must be made in the cur- rency of the agreement ( the clearing ruble for the U.S.S.R., the clearing Finnish markka for the People's Republic of China, and the clearing U.S. dollar in all other cases).2 Settlements with the convertible cur- rency countries may be made in any convertible currency or through Convertible Accounts. Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident accounts: Convertible Accounts, Restricted Accounts, and Capital Accounts. Convertible Accounts are held by nonresidents in Finnish ma rkkaa or in convertible currencies. These accounts may be credited by an authorized bank with amounts transferred f rom other Convertible Accounts, with Finnish currency received direct f rom a foreign bank or imported into F in land, with amoun ts which the bank would be au thor ized to t rans fer abroad, with amounts of convertible currency received by the bank, and with interest accrued on funds held in the accounts. These accounts may be debited free ly and balances may be transferred abroad to any country. Restricted Accounts are held by residents of countries with which Finland has bilateral payments arrange- ments, and are designated according to the holder's country of residence. They may be held in Finnish ma rkkaa or the appropriate bilateral agreement currency. They may be credited by an authorized bank with amounts transferred from Convertible Accounts and from Restricted Accounts related to the same country. The accounts may also be credited with Finnish currency received f rom a bank in the country indicated on the account, with amoun ts which the bank is authorized to receive to the credit of a Restricted Account related to the coun try indicated on the account, with currency surrendered to the bank and restricted to the country indicated on the account, and with interest accrued on funds held in the accounts. These accounts may be debited freely and balances may be t rans fe r red to the bilateral country concerned. Capital Accounts comprise all other nonresident accounts. They are held in markkaa and are intended pr imar i ly for payments of a capital nature. The assign- ment of a Capital Account to another nonresident and the transfer abroad of funds held in such an account may be effected (with some minor exceptions) only with the permission of the Bank of Finland. A monetary institution may credit a Capital Account with the pur- chase price of assets other than foreign securities bought from the holder by a resident, with funds received as an inheritance, and with redemption payments and interest 2 In the cases of Czechoslovakia and of Poland, since 1970 pay- ments have been, in practice, effected in convertible U.S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution on matured bonds and debentures quoted on the Helsinki Stock Exchange. These accounts may also be credited with rent on property owned in Finland by the holder of the account, with proceeds f rom other assets belong- ing to the holder of the account and managed by the monetary institution with which the account is held, with the amount of a loan based on a contract granting to a nonresident a loan not exceeding Fmk 50,000 in value to be utilized in Finland, and with interest accrued on funds held in the account. Capital Accounts may be debited freely for non- commercial current expenses in Finland of and for account of the holder, and funds in Capital Accounts may be used for capital payments when the transaction does not require authorization or is authorized for transferable fund s. The Bank of Finland generally grants permission for t rans fer abroad of funds deposited in Capital Accounts to an account holder who has resided abroad dur ing the last calendar year and who continues to do so. Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be imported free of license f rom the multilateral countries, provided that the goods are purchased f rom and originate in those countries. How- ever, certain goods3 may be imported f rom the multi- lateral area under a global quota system, which provides for import licenses to be issued at least up to the amounts of 11 value quotas for specified commodity groups. The total value of the global quota imports for 1980 was 0.6 per cent of total 1980 imports. Certain other goods requiring individual licenses when imported from the multilateral area are set out in the discretionary licensing list. The only commodities still subject to quantitative restriction for the multilateral area are certain agricultural commodities and fuels and petroleum products. Import licenses are not required for most commodities originating in and purchased from the U.S.S.R., or originating in and purchased from the five countries with which agreements on the reciprocal removal of obstacles to trade have been concluded (Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, and Po land). All imports of commodities originating in countries not classified in either the multilateral area or the bilateral area4 require individual licenses. The State Granary is the main agency for the import of wheat, rye, barley, oats, and products of these grains for human consump- tion, but individual importers may also import these commodities under license. There is a state monopoly for imports of alcoholic beverages. Exchange is granted by authorized banks for all permitted imports on presentation of an application form, the import license if required, and the original commercial invoice, provided that the goods are already 3 Agricultural commodities, fish, petroleum products, and unw rought gold and silver. 4 Including Democratic People's Republic of Korea and Mongolia. FINLAND in the country or there is sufficient evidence to guarantee their importation. Payment for imports must be made within 12 months after the date of customs clearance of the goods; if the period of suppliers' credit exceeds 6 months, the credit is subject to an "overtime fee," unless specially authorized by the Bank of Finland; if the payment is made to the seller through an import financing credit, the credit period may not exceed 3 months. Payments for Invisibles Payments in respect of authorized invisibles are not restricted. The authorized banks have general permis- sion to effect payments for most cu r rent invisibles, with a few exceptions relating to insu rance, subject in some cases to a maximum allowance or other conditions; for amounts in excess of the standard allowances and for purposes for which no standard allowances have been set, exchange licenses are granted free ly by the Bank of Finland. All contracts involving paymen ts to non- residents for which general permission has not been granted must be submitted to the Bank of Finland for approval. For minor payments, authorized banks may provide foreign exchange equivalent to Fmk 1,000 a calendar month for each remitter. A Finnish resident traveling abroad may purchase from commercial banks foreign exchange equivalent to Fmk 5,000 a trip. Once abroad a traveler may withdraw foreign exchange on a bank account passbook or check issued by a Finnish monetary institution, provided that the utilized amount of his travel allocation does not exceed a total of Fmk 5,000. A resident traveler may use a credit card abroad for travel services and settle the transaction after his return. Nonresident travelers may take out Fmk 5,000 a tr ip in Finnish notes and coin and any amount in foreign notes and coin declared upon entry; resident travelers may take out foreign or domes- tic currency, or any combination of these, up to Fmk 5,000, but in neither case may notes of a denomi- nation higher than Fmk 100 be exported. For all types of travel, bona fide applications for additional amounts of foreign exchange are approved by the Bank of Finland. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required only for exports of scrap metal. Exports of some commodities in the agri- cultural sector and raw timber, as well as exports to countries not in the convertible area, require an export control declaration, which is approved automatically by the Export and Import Permits Office, except in a few specified cases. Sales of arms are strictly controlled. Exports to countries that are not in a convertible area and that are outside the scope of agreements on the reciprocal removal of obstacles to trade are allocated by means of bilateral trade arrangements. Foreign exchange acquired through commodity exports need not be surrendered to the Bank of Finland or to an author- ized exchange dealer. Exporters are required to repatri- ate foreign exchange proceeds within eight days of 159 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND collection, which may then be held in a foreign currency account with an authorized bank in Finland or be converted into domestic currency. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts f rom current invisibles need not be surrendered but must be repatriated within eight days of collection. The f u n ds may be held in a foreign currency account in F in land. Any unutilized foreign banknotes and travelers checks must be repatri- ated, but these are exempt f rom the surrender require- ment up to Fmk 5,000 for each resident holder. The import of Finnish and foreign means of payment is unrestricted except that the import of notes with a nominal value above Fmk 100 is prohibited. Capital Most outward transfers of nonresident capital are subject to approval by the Bank of Finland. Inheritances are transferred automatically to the beneficiaries. Per- sons who have resided outside Finland dur ing the last calendar year and continue to do so may t rans fer abroad their assets in Finland in one lump sum, subject to the prior approval of the Bank of F in land, which generally is granted. Nonresidents may purchase bonds, debentures, or shares quoted on the Helsinki Stock Exchange through an authorized bank, against convertible currencies, or by debiting a Convertible Account. When the securities so acquired by a nonresident are deposited in the custody of the authorized bank, the nonresident purchaser is permitted to sell the securities on the Helsinki Stock Exchange through the authorized bank and to repatriate the proceeds of the sale in a convertible currency The acquisition of shares, bonds, and debentures quoted on the Helsinki Stock Exchange with funds f rom Capital Accounts is also permitted automatically if they are acquired by an authorized bank, but proceeds f rom the sale of such securities may not be transferred abroad without the permission of the Bank of Finland. Any other transactions in securities, and the export of securities that involve nonresident interests, require approval. If the securities were acquired with convertible foreign exchange or with ma rkkaa f rom a Convertible Account, approval for their export can be obtained freely. Inward direct investments must be approved by the Bank of Finland. The Bank usually grants permission, unless the investment is judged to be exceptionally detrimental to the national interest or to be of a purely financial character. Repatriation of authorized direct investments is subject to the approval of the Bank of Finland, which is freely given. Foreign investments that involve a participation of more than 20 per cent in the share capital of an enterprise require the approval of the Council of State. This approval is usually granted. Direct foreign investment in the forest and mining 160 industries and in certain trad i t iona l ly regulated activities is not normally permitted. On demand by the Bank of Finland, residents must declare their foreign assets, including property owned abroad. Proceeds f rom the sale of securities and real property must be repatriated under the general rule of repatriation. Authorized banks are given permission to purchase specified foreign and Finnish securities issued abroad. Ou tward t rans fe rs of capital, including transfers for direct investment by residents, requ ire individual approval. Purchases of real estate abroad are authorized up to a limit of Fmk 150,000, subject to the approval of the Bank of F in land, which is granted liberally. Finnish emigrants are generally permitted an exchange allowance of up to Fmk 150,000 a person, in addition to the basic tourist travel allowance. There is an auto- matic exchange allowance of up to Fmk 2,000 a calendar month for each donor for g if ts and contributions to nonresidents. Foreign currency borrowing by Finnish residents, in the form of short-term or medium-term financial credits or by bond issues abroad, requires the specific approval of the Bank of Finland, which exercises surveillance over the terms and timing. Lending to nonresidents is normally restricted to export credits. No permission is needed for customary export credits. Medium-term and long-term borrowing abroad, other than borrowing by the State or import credits, is subject to a selective deposit requirement, the terms of which are set by the Bank of Finland. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, and sell gold in any fo rm in Finland. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Licensing Office; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports by or on behalf of the mone tary authorities and industrial users. The global quota list contains a quota for industrial gold, for which licenses are granted freely. Exports of gold are subject to the same regula- tions as exports of other commodities, i.e., an export control declaration approved by the Licensing Office is usually suff ic ien t. Changes during 1980 January 1. The m in imum import prices set by the Ministry of Finance for certain clothing items were extended for the calendar year 1980. January 1. Import licensing for a number of goods was relaxed. January 11. Trade and paymen ts restrictions applying to Zimbabwe (former ly Rhodesia) were lifted. January 30. The Government decided to allow the Bank of Finland to lower the spreads on its currency index from 114-21 to 112-19. March 25. The markka was revalued by 2 per cent in effective terms. The revaluation was within the spreads ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of the currency index set by the Government and the spread was not affected. April 1. The Bank of Finland discontinued the quota- tion of forward rates for the U.S. dollar. New guidelines for commercial banks concerning the fo rwa rd market were also issued. July 1. Temporary ind iv idual import licenses for cer- tain electrical and mechanical goods were abolished. FINLAND 161 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of France is the Franc. France partici- pates with Belgium, Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS ). In accordance with this agreement, France maintains the spot exchange rates between the f ranc and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 2.25 per cent (in the case of the Italian lira, 6 per cent) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs ). The agreement implies that the Bank of France ( the central b ank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1980 these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 Belgian or Luxembourg f rancs 1 00 Danish kroner 1 00 deutsche ma rk 100 Netherlands guilders 100 Irish pounds 1 00 I ta l ian lire Francs Upper limit Lower l im it 15.029 77.43 240.93 217.96 8.9495 5.362 14.368 74.02 230.33 208.38 8.5555 4.756 The par t ic ipan ts in the EMS are not ma in ta in ing the exchange rates for other currencies w i th in fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper func t ion ing of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the intervention cur- rencies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. Buying and selling rates for 20 fore ign currencies are quoted daily on the basis of market rates.1 On December 31, 1980 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were F 4.5105 and F 4.5215, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Fixed conversion rates in terms of the f ranc apply to the currencies of the overseas territories and to the currencies of the countries that are linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account,2 as follows: (1) In the overseas territories of French Polynesia, New Caledonia, and Wallis and Fu tuna Islands, the currency used is the CFP f ranc, which has a fixed par i ty with the f ranc of CFPF 1 = F 0.055. (2) Fixed con- version rates in terms of the f ranc apply to the currencies 1 Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, Djibouti francs, Finnish ma rkkaa, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ne the r lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por tuguese escudos, pounds s ter l ing, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and zaires. 162 of the Operations Account countries.2 These rates are CFAF 1 = F 0.02 for the CFA franc, which circulates in Benin, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta, and MF 1 = F0 .01 for the Mali franc. In V anu a tu, the off ic ial currency, the va tu has a fixed re la t ionsh ip w i th the f r a nc at a rate of VT 1 = F 0.0061875;3 the Aus tra l ian dollar also circulates in Vanua tu. Authorized banks in France and in Monaco, which may also act on behalf of banks established abroad or in Operations Account countries, are perm i t ted to deal spot or forward in the exchange market in France. Authorized banks may also deal spot and forward with their correspondents in foreign marke ts in all currencies. Nonbank residents may purchase forward exchange only in respect of imports and of certain trade transactions, but their forward sales of fore ign currency are free, whether or not there is an under ly ing transaction. Forward cover for raw materials is free; for all other imports it is available for two months. France forma l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory The exchange control regulations are applicable in all territories of the French Republic, i.e., in continental France, Corsica, the Overseas Departments (Guadeloupe, Ma r t in ique, Gu iana, Reunion, and St. Pierre and M iqu e lon ), Mayotte, and the three Overseas Territories (W a l l is and Fu tuna Islands, New Ca ledon ia, and French Po lynes ia). No exchange control is applied in relation to Monaco or the Operations Account countries;2 paymen ts between France and these countries are free of restriction on the part of France and take place at fixed exchange rates. All other countries are considered fo re ign countries for exchange control purposes; all paymen ts between France and foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Vanua tu is considered a fore ign coun try for exchange control purposes. For imports and exports of gold, the Operations Account countries are also considered fo re ign countries. Cer ta in controls that are independent of the exchange control regulations are ma in ta ined over inward and ou tward direct inves tment and over borrow ing abroad; these transaction controls are not applicable to the Operations Account countries or Monaco, and those over direct investment do not apply to member countries of the EC. Privileged trea tment in respect of trade 2 Benin, Cameroon, Cen tral A f r ican Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 3 This arrangement came into effect on Janua ry 1, 1981. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution transactions is accorded to the Operations Account countries and to Algeria, Guinea, Madagascar, Mauri- tania, Morocco, Tunisia, and Vanuatu. Administration of Control The Directorate of the Treasury of the Ministry of Economy is the coordinating agency in the field of financial relations with foreign countries. It is respon- sible for exchange control and all matters relating to inward and outward direct investment and to borrowing abroad, unless they relate to real estate companies, when the Bank of France screens applications. The Direc- torate of the Treasury also evaluates the balance of payments, together with the Bank of France, which collects the data for its compilation. Certain exchange control powers have been delegated to the Bank of France, including the authority to license imports and exports of gold. Other exchange control powers have been delegated to the Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes and in the Overseas Departments and Territories to the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE). The Directorate of Insurance of the M in is t ry of Economy has certain powers in respect of matters relating to insurance, re insu rance, annuities, etc. The material execution of all transfers has been delegated to authorized banks and stockbrokers and to the Postal Administration. The Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes establishes import and export pro- cedures and controls, w i th in the framework of com- mercial policy directives given by the Directorate of Foreign Economic Relations (DREE ); the Directorate- General also issues import and export licenses, and is responsible for any litigation relating to the exchange regulations. Technical visas required for certain imports and exports are issued by the appropriate ministry or by the Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes. The Ministry of Industry has certain respon- sibilities in respect of licensing contracts and contracts relating to technical assistance. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the Operations Account countries may be made in francs or the currency issued by any institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury.4 Settlements with all other countries may be made in any of the currencies of those countries or through nonresident Foreign Accounts in Francs. Settlements with Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia, however, usually take place in francs. Importers and exporters are free to invoice in any currency. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident account in francs may be freely opened by an authorized bank for nonresidents, including French nationals (other than officials) who have been 4 Comprising the ins t i tu tes of issue of the Operations Account coun- tries and the Overseas Institute of Issue ( for New Caledonia, French Polynesia, Mayotte, and Wallis and Fu tuna Is lands). FRANCE residing abroad for at least two years. All overdrafts and advances on nonresident-held franc accounts are subject to general or specific permission. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be freely credited with (1) the f ranc proceeds of the spot or forward sale of foreign currencies on the exchange market by a nonresident; (2) the f ranc proceeds of the sale of foreign banknotes to an authorized bank by a non- resident bank or a traveler; ( 3) the f ranc equivalent of an authorized bank's arbitrage in foreign currencies on a foreign market; (4) French banknotes (and those of the Operations Account countries) mailed direct from abroad to the main office of the Bank of France by an authorized bank's foreign correspondents; (5) transfers from other Foreign Accounts in Francs; (6) any authorized payment by a resident to a non- resident, including interest on balances in Foreign Accounts in Francs; (7) the sales proceeds, income, and amortization f rom French and foreign securities held in a foreign dossier in France, inc lud ing securities held by authorized banks and accruing in France to a nonresident by donation or inheritance up to F 500,000; (8) liquidation proceeds of nonresident-held direct investments;5 and ( 9) the proceeds of the sale, through the intermediation of a notary public, of real estate belonging to nonresidents. These accounts may be freely debited for ( 1) spot purchases of any foreign currency on the exchange market by a nonresident; (2) the purchase by a non- resident of fore ign banknotes or withdrawals in French banknotes; (3) the equivalent in francs of arbitrage abroad in foreign currencies by an authorized bank; (4) French banknotes (and those of Operations Account countries) mailed by authorized banks direct to their foreign correspondents; (5) transfers to other Foreign Accounts in Francs; (6) approved direct investment in France by nonres iden ts ;5 (7) purchases of real estate from residents, through the intermediation of a notary public; ( 8) purchases in France of listed French or foreign securities; (9) interest on and repayment of loans granted in accordance w i th the relevant regulations by residents; (10) any payment by a nonresident to a resident; and ( 1 1) repayment of consumer and real estate loans by French banks for foreigners l iv ing in France. If francs accruing to a nonresident are not trans- ferable, or are not immediately transferable, they may be credited to a Suspense Account in Francs in the name of the beneficiary. The unrem i t tab le funds of emigrants of French nationality must be retained in resident accounts (comptes interieurs) un t il they become nonresidents (i.e., un t il they have stayed in a foreign coun try for two yea r s ); emigrants of foreign na t iona l i ty become nonres iden ts immed ia te ly and, therefore, may 5 Subject to compliance with the provisions of Decree No. 68-1021 of November 24, 1968, as amended by Decree No. 71-144 of Feb- ru a ry 22, 1971, Decree No. 72-365 of May 5, 1972, and Decree No. 80-618 of August 4, 1980. 163 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE take out all of their assets upon departure. Diplomatic personnel work ing in France may hold resident and nonresident accounts. In addition, nonresidents may hold foreign currency accounts with French and foreign- owned banks. Imports and Import Payments Goods originating in and shipped f rom other countries that are accorded privileged treatment in respect of trade transactions (see section on Exchange Control Territory, above) are generally admitted free of quan t i- tative restrictions and individual licenses. Imports of goods which originate in other countries and are not covered by French import liberalization require indi- vidual licenses. Some imports f rom EC countries and some other imports from non-EC countries are subject to m in imum prices; these require an administrative visa and sometimes, exceptionally, an import license. Certain imports require certificates of origin. For import control purposes, countries other than those that are accorded privileged treatment are divided into four groups according to the extent of import liberalization: (1) the former OEEC countries, their dependent territories and certain former dependent territories, Andorra, Canada, Egypt, Ethiopia, F i j i, Finland, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Liberia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, the United States, Western Samoa, and Yugoslavia; (2) some specified countries;6 (3) the Eastern European countries (Albania, Bu lgar ia, Czecho- slovakia, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and the U.S.S.R.), the People's Republic of China, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Mongolia; and (4) the Ge rman Democratic Republic. Goods covered by the import liberalization arrangements applicable to one coun try may be imported freely from another country, provided that the country of origin and the country of shipment both benefit f rom the same degree of liberalization. Imports of practically all industrial products f rom countries in group ( 1) are free of quan t i ta t ive restric- tions, but restrictions are applied to a number of agricul- tural products; there is relatively little d ifference between the lists of goods which may be imported f ree ly f rom d i f- ferent countries in this group, these differences relating ma in ly to Hong Kong. Imports of certain indus tr ial prod- ucts f rom countries in group (2) are restricted, and restrictions are applied to these and to certain additional industrial products f rom group (3) countries. For some commodities, there are global quotas that are allocated annua l ly (petroleum and petroleum p roduc t s) or semiannually and apply to all countries (other than those that have bilaterally negotiated quotas or receive 6 A fghan is tan, A rgen t ina, Aus t ra l ia, Bhu tan, Bolivia, Brazil, B u rm a, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuado r, El Salvador, Gua tema la, Haiti, Hondu ras, Ind ia, Indones ia, I r an, Iraq, Japan, Republic of Korea, Libyan Arab Jamah i r iya, Mexico, Nepal, New Zealand, N icaragua, Pak is tan, Panama, Pa raguay, Pe ru, Philippines, Saudi Arabia, South A f r ica, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen Arab Republic, and People's Democratic Republic of Yemen. 164 privileged t r e a tm en t ). Imports f rom all countries of certain agricultural items and certain raw materials are free of quantitative restrictions. Imports from non-EC countries of most products covered by the Common Agr icu l tural Policy of the EC are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EC regulations are also applied to imports f rom non-EC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. Liberalized imports are not subject to trade controls, but do require a customs document that cons t i tu tes the customs declaration. However, as an exchange control measure, the domiciliation ( reg i s t ra t ion) of the import transaction at an authorized bank may be prescribed. For some liberalized imports, an adm in i s t ra t ive visa issued by the Central Customs Adm in i s t ra t ion or by the appropriate m in is try is required on an import declara- tion. Imports of the products of the European Coal and Steel Commun i ty require such adm in i s t ra t ive visas when o r ig ina t ing in non-ECSC countries. Other impor ts genera l ly requ ire ind iv idual impo rt licenses. These are gran ted up to quotas determined on an ind iv idual commodity basis or for a group of commodities and are app l icab le to specified coun tr ies or areas in accordance with trade agreements or an import p lan d rawn up for a def in i te period. Payments for impor ts f rom fore ign coun tr ies must be made by credit to a Foreign Account in Francs or w i th foreign cu r rency purchased in the French exchange market. Impo rt transac t ions re la t ing to fo re ign coun tr ies and valued at F 125,000 or more must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank, to which the necessary import documents must be presented and through which all payments related to the impo rt mu st be made. The amoun ts that may be t ran s fe r red through postal chan- nels are not subject to l im i t a t i o n, but in p rac t ice, the Postal A dm i n i s t r a t i on does not make impo rt paymen ts valued at over F 125,000, as it does not und e r t ake domiciliation. Authorized banks may w i thout special au tho r iza t ion permit advance payments to be made that are provided for in the commerc ial con trac t, up to 30 per cent of the price for cap i tal goods and up to 10 per cent for all other goods. Higher advance paymen ts requ i re p r ior approval by the Customs Adm in i s t r a t ion. For all imports, importers may purchase spot fore ign currency eight work ing days before u t i l iza t ion; u t i l iza t ion cannot take place before the payment fa l ls due. There is no restriction on the use of supp l ie rs' credit. Two months' forward cover for impo rt paymen ts can be ob ta ined for any commodity; for the import of specified raw materials and specified foods tu f fs (unroasted coffee, corn, rice, etc.) there is no time l im it on con trac ts for fo rwa rd cover. The fo r e ign currency may be purchased fo rwa rd at the t ime of dom ic i l ia t ion, but the m a t u r i ty of the forward exchange contract must not be later than the date on which the commercial payment is due. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles to foreign countries are controlled but are not restricted as to amount. If jus t ify ing documents are presented and certain exchange control requirements are met, authorized banks are permitted to approve applications for payments for many categories of current invisibles without any limita- tion; for certain other categories of current invisibles, established limits have been set. Applications for all other payments for invisibles and for amounts in excess of established limits are referred to the Bank of France to prevent unauthorized capital transfers; such applica- tions are approved if a genuine current payment is involved. Any resident may freely and at any time make remittances abroad up to the equivalent of F 3,000 a person, provided that the transfers do not serve as a means of accumulating funds abroad. Payments that may be authorized without limitation by authorized banks include those related to approved trade transactions; income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties; bank ing commissions, patent fees, and specified categories of taxes; specified insurance payments; fees to medical doctors, lawyers, etc.; alimony in accordance with court decisions; and net salaries or wages of foreigners employed in France, provided that the transfer takes place within three months from the date of payment. Irrespective of the exchange control regulations, certain transactions between persons or firms in France and abroad are subject to restriction; these include certain transactions relating to insurance, reinsurance, and road and river transport. The basic exchange allocation for tourist travel to foreign countries by residents (defined for this purpose as including residents of Operations Account coun tr ies) is the equivalent of F 5,000 a person a trip, which may be taken up for any number of trips a year. The basic allocation for business travel is the same plus the equivalent of F 1,000 a person a day. Applications for exchange in excess of the basic allowance for any type of travel are approved by the Bank of France, provided that no capital outflow is involved. Any unu t i l ized foreign currency in excess of the equivalent of F 1,000 must be surrendered within one mon th upon return to France. Applications for travel exchange cannot be submitted earlier than one month before departure. The use abroad of credit cards issued in France is unrestricted for the settlement of travel expenditures; in addition, the holder may use them to obtain f u n ds from banks abroad up to F 2,000 a week. All fares for trips starting in France may be paid in f rancs, as may hotel costs and other transpor ta t ion expenses. Resident travelers to foreign countries may take out F 5,000 in French banknotes. These banknotes may be used abroad, and any amount taken out is charged against the basic exchange allocation of F 5,000. Non- resident travelers may take out F 5,000 in French FRANCE banknotes and may reconvert into foreign currency in the French exchange ma rket any French banknotes up to F 5,000 obtained by the conversion in that market of foreign means of payment that they declared upon entry or obtained by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs; any rema in ing French banknotes must be deposited with the customs against issuance of a receipt. Resident travelers may freely take out the equ iva lent of F 5,000 in means of payments acquired in the exchange ma rket against a tourist travel allocation. Nonres ident travelers may not, in pr inc ip le, take out more than the equ iva lent of F 5,000 in fore ign bank- notes unless these were declared upon en t ry and the amount to be taken out does not exceed that impor ted m inus any amounts exchanged for f r an cs plus any reconversion of f rancs in to fore ign currencies. However, non res ident trave lers may freely take out any other means of payment established in their name abroad; in addition, subject to the subm iss ion of an authorized bank's dec lara t ion, they may take out any amount in foreign bankno tes or foreign currency travelers checks acquired in France f r om an authorized bank by con- version of fore ign exchange in the French exchange marke t, by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs, or by debit to a fore ign currency account. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain goods on a prohibited export l i st may be exported on ly und er a special license. Some other exports also requ i re ind iv idual licenses, but if the total value does not exceed F 1,000 (F 5,000 for art objects or collectors' i t em s ), these exports may be pe rm i t ted without any fo rma l i ty, subject to certain exceptions. Exports to fore ign coun tr ies are subject to exchange control. Payment must be received th rough the exchange ma rke t. The r ep a t r i a t ion7 and, where appropr ia te, the su r render by sale in the exchange ma rket of proceeds f rom exports to fo re ign coun tr ies is required not later than the m a t u r i ty date of the covering contract. Sma ll business exporters may be authorized by the Bank of France to deposit up to 5 per cent of export receipts or F 30,000 a mon th, whichever is lower, in fore ign cur- rency accounts. Au tho r ized banks may freely extend fo r e ign currency advances to exporters; such advances and the ir repayment may be settled in the exchange ma rke t, as may the proceeds f rom the d iscoun t ing of fore ign cu r rency d r a f ts presented by exporters. The due date of the commerc ial contract (and, therefore, the due date of the export rece ip t) may not be more than 1 80 days a f t er arr ival of the goods at the ir des t ina t ion, except with special au thor iza t ion, or, when a guaran tee by the Comp agn ie F ranga ise d'Assurance pour le Commerce Ex te r ieur (COFACE) has been ob ta ined. For values exceeding the equ iva lent of F 50,000, export proceeds must not be received in French or fo re ign banknotes or bankno tes issued by an in s t i tu te of issue 7 Repa t r ia t ion may take place e i ther by co l lec t ion of fo re ign cur- rency or by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs. 165 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, or by debit to a postal checking account in France. All export transactions related to fore ign coun- tries and valued at F 125,000 or more must be domi- ciled with an authorized bank; the Director-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes, however, may exempt certain approved firms from domiciliation requirements. Certain goods purchased in France by persons not normally residing in France are considered as exports even when paid for in francs, and are exempt f rom taxes. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with Monaco and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets (with the exception of income f rom work in border areas) must be repatriated and, where appropriate, surrendered within one mon th f rom the due date and in any case w i th in eight working days of receipt. With minor exceptions for certain types of transactions, services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. Resident and nonresident travelers may br ing in any amount of banknotes and coin (except gold coin) in francs, CFA francs, CFP francs, or any foreign currency; however, the exchange of banknotes issued by Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia is prohibited at the request of those countries. Resident travelers must sell in the exchange market any foreign banknotes or travelers checks in excess of F 1,000 within a month of entry. Capital Capital movements between France and Monaco and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers between France and all other countries are subject to exchange control approval. With the exception of purchases of French and foreign securities abroad, outward transfers of resident-owned capital generally are restricted; capital receipts f rom foreign countries are permitted freely, provided that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered by sale in the exchange market (but see below for special con- trols over borrowing abroad and over inward direct inves tmen t ). Capital assets abroad of residents are not subject to repatriation. Residents are freely permitted to purchase real estate abroad for personal use as their principal or secondary residence, up to F 150,000 a fam i ly unit. The transfer abroad of nonresident-owned funds, including the sales proceeds of capital assets, is not restricted. French and foreign securities held in France by non- residents may be exported, provided that they have been deposited with an authorized bank in a foreign dossier (dossier etr anger de valeurs mobilieres); French and foreign securities held under a foreign dossier can also be sold in France and the sales proceeds can be 166 transferred abroad. Foreign securities held in France by a nonresident must be deposited with an authorized bank; French securities held in France by nonresidents need not be deposited but cannot be dealt with or exported unless they have been deposited. Foreign securities held in France by residents must be deposited with a qualified bank or broker. Residents may hold French and foreign securities abroad under the control of a French authorized bank or broker. The export for the account of residents of French securities held in France is prohibited, except when they are to be sold abroad. Subject to compliance with the special regulations concerning inward and outward direct investment that are summarized below, residents may freely purchase French and foreign securities on stock exchanges abroad, through authorized banks, except, however, equities with a ma tu r i ty of less than five years issued by foreign governments.8 Such French and foreign securities may be held or sold abroad, but they may also be imported and then either be held or be sold on a French stock exchange. The proceeds of the sale abroad of French or foreign securities must be sold on the exchange market within two months of receipt, unless used w i t h in that period for reinvestment in securities abroad. Correspondingly, nonresidents holding French or foreign securities abroad (whether acquired before Novem- ber 24, 1968 or la ter) may freely import them into France and hold them in a fore ign dossier, or sell them on a stock exchange in France and repatriate the proceeds through the exchange market. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad and over inward and outward direct investment. In principle, these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. At present, however, their application is in many instances affected by exchange control require- ments. With the exception of the controls over capital issues in France, the transaction controls do not apply to the Operations Account countries. Furthermore, the transaction controls over direct investment are not applicable to member countries of the EC, where direct investment transactions are subject to exchange control declaration and exchange control approval only. Foreign direct investments in France and French direct investments abroad, including loans cons t i tu t ing a direct investment, require prior declaration to the M in is ter of Economy; as regards member countries of the EC, the declaration is required under the exchange control regulations rather than under the special trans- action controls. In principle, foreign companies domi- ciled in EC member countries are free to take over any participation in the equity capital of a French company. The Committee on Foreign Investment is, however, 8 The existing general permissions do not cover the sale in France by nonresidents, or the purchase abroad by residents, of securities that are not quoted on a recognized stock exchange. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution entitled to issue a f ind ing within two months to forbid such participation should it be deemed to jeopardize public health, order, security, or defense, or thought to be sought on account of a third party outside the EC. For countries outside the EC, prior exchange control authorization is required for all direct invest- ment operations liable to involve a capital movement. Direct investments are defined as investments leading to control of a company or enterprise. Mere participa- tion is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a firm whose shares are quoted on the stock exchange; any participation in any other type of firm may be considered a direct investment. The Directorate of the Treasury, in evaluating the degree of control, takes into account any special relationships resulting f rom stock options, patents and licenses, commercial contracts, etc. Loans granted by a parent company to its subsidiary are subject to the same regulations as direct investments. Except in respect of EC countries, the Minister may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him within two months from receipt of the declaration. If the amount involved is more than F 1 million, docu- mentary evidence must be submitted to the Directorate of the Treasury before the l iqu ida t ion proceeds of foreign direct investments in France may be transferred abroad, and the liquidation itself must be reported to the Minister within 20 days af ter it takes place. As an exception to the declaration and approval requirements summarized above, the making or liquida- tion of direct investments abroad by residents is exempt from prior declaration or prior authorization when the amount involved does not exceed F 5 million a year for each beneficiary firm abroad, and provided that the transactions do not involve holding companies, invest- ment companies, investment trusts, unit trusts, mu tual funds, or companies whose purpose it is to facilitate the financing or treasury func t ions of enterprises belonging to one or more groups, as well as the financing of investments in agriculture and real estate. Certain inward direct investment up to F 5 million a trans- action also is exempt from prior declaration or author- ization. Foreign issues on the French capital market are subject to prior authorization by the Minister of Economy. The requirement is applicable also to the Operations Account countries. Exempt from authoriza- tion, however, are operations in connection with ( 1) loans backed by a guarantee from the French Gov- ernment and (2) shares similar to securities that already are officially quoted on a stock exchange in France. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in France, or by branches or subsidiaries in France of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior author- ization by the Minister of Economy. The following FRANCE types of borrowing are, in principle, exempt f rom this authorization: (1) borrowing by industrial firms for the execution of works abroad; (2) borrowing by any type of firm to finance imports or exports of goods; (3) loans related to certain international merchanting transactions; (4) borrowing related to the performance of services (other than income from labor or cap i ta l ), when under taken to finance operations executed abroad or transactions with foreign countries; (5) loans con- tracted by banks expressly permitted to borrow abroad (these include all authorized b ank s ); and (6) foreign currency borrowing abroad by nonbank firms, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed F 10 million for any one borrower, provided that the interest rate is a "normal" market rate, that the bor- rowing is not for the purpose of direct investment, that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered, and that each draw ing against the loan is separated by at least one year f rom the corresponding repayment. All borrowings in Eurofrancs are subject to prior authorization. The application of the controls over direct investment and borrowing is delegated to the Bank of France insofar as they relate to French firms that are mainly engaged in real estate business Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization by the Bank of France, w i th in the frame- work of directives issued by the Treasury. Since the imposition of exchange control in 1968, authorized banks have been virtually free to lend foreign currency to nonresidents, subject to certain reservations in respect of the gran t ing of guarantees and va ry ing limitations on their external position, and to resident importers and exporters. Lending to nonresidents in francs, how- ever, is prohibited, with minor exceptions. Authorized banks' foreign currency assets and their overall liabilities in f rancs and foreign currency to nonresidents are free f rom l im i ta t ion. Nonresidents may freely purchase French short-term securities, including treasury bills, bons de caisse, and private draf ts. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in France. They may continue to hold abroad any gold they held there prior to November 25, 1968. There is a free gold market for bars and coin in Paris, to which residents have free and anonymous access and in which norma l ly no official intervention takes place. Imports and exports of "monetary" gold (defined as gold hav ing neither a fineness nor a weight that is recognized in the gold ma rke t) into or f rom the territory of continental France require pr ior author- ization by the Bank of France. Imports or exports to or f rom the Bank of France itself, however, are exempted f rom that requ i remen t. Imports and exports by private persons of gold objects (other than medals and bars, but including both personal and other jewe lry) or numismatic gold coins, provided that their com- bined weight does not exceed 500 grams, are similarly 167 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE exempt. Movements of industrial gold are subject to a simple declaration as are imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold, such as gold-filled and gold-plated articles. Col- lectors' items of gold and gold antiques are subject to specific regulations. A 20-franc gold coin, the napoleon, is traded on the Paris stock exchange. In domestic trading, purchases of bars and coin are not subject to value-added tax. Imports of monetary gold are exempt f rom customs duty and value-added tax. Domestic transactions in gold and gold coin are subject to capital gains tax. Changes during 1980 May 22. It was announced that, with the exception of food and medical supplies, exports to Iran under contracts signed after November 4, 1979 would tem- porarily be prohibited. July 11. In a relaxation of certain foreign exchange controls, the following main measures were introduced: (1) removal of the time limit on forward purchases of foreign currency by importers of raw materials (hitherto only 6-month or 12-month contracts were pe rm i t ted ); (2) authorization for exporters to retain foreign exchange proceeds un t il covering contracts had actually matured (previously, such foreign currency had to be converted into francs within eight days ); (3) subject to the approval of the Bank of France in individual cases, authorization for small business exporters to deposit in foreign bank accounts up to 5 per cent of export receipts or F 30,000 a month, whichever was lower (previously, only specified exporters were entitled to hold such accounts); (4) increase from F 50,000 to F 125,000 of the threshold above which payment for exports and imports must be settled by bank transfer with authorization documents (reducing to approxi- mately 5 per cent the number of operations subject to this ru le ); (5) general authorization of any form of payment from abroad for exports valued at up to F 50,000; (6) relaxation of restrictions on direct invest- ment by nonresidents in France and by residents abroad, principally by raising the maximum amount for which no authorization was required to F 5 million ( f rom the previous level of F 3 million in general and F 1 mil- lion for nonresidents establishing individual business enterprises in France); (7) more liberal authorization of export-related financial credits denominated in francs; and (8) easing of rules governing transactions abroad by individuals. August 9. It was announced that, henceforth, foreign companies domiciled in an EC member country would be free to take over any participation in the equity capital of a French company. The Committee on Foreign Investment would be entitled to issue a finding within two months to forb id such participation should it be deemed to jeopardize public health, order, security, national defense, or thought to be sought on account of a third party outside the EC. To companies domiciled outside the EC, the previous rule continued to apply, which required approval for purchases of 20 per cent or more of the equity capital of a French company. September 12. A system of automatic import licensing was introduced with respect to imports of velvet. October 1. A decree on the strict labeling of textile imports as to their country of origin took effect. November 7. To stem the inflow of foreign capital, commercial banks were instructed to deposit with the Bank of France compulsory reserves of 5 per cent of their nonresidents' deposits as at November 21. 168 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Gabon is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange trans- actions in French francs between the BEAC and com- mercial banks at present take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1. Buying and selling rates for certain foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quota- tions based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market, and include a commission. A com- mission of 0.25 per cent is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treasury and for the expenses of students. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, Gabon's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central A f r ican Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control The Directorate of Foreign Financial Relations in the Ministry of Economy and Finance supervises borrowing and lending abroad. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Economy and Finance, who has delegated his approval authority for current payments to the authorized banks and that with respect to the external position of the banks to the BEAC. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries, i.e., the Postal Administration and authorized banks. Import authori- zations or licenses, and export authorizations, where necessary, are issued by the Directorate of External Trade of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry .* Prescription of Currency Since Gabon is an Operations Account country, settle- ments with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries 1The CFA f ranc circulating in Gabon is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cam- eroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, and the Congo. or in French francs through Foreign Accounts Francs. in Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BEAC banknotes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed to the BEAC agency in Libre- ville by an authorized bank's foreign correspondent. Otherwise, the crediting, to nonresident accounts of BEAC banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom member countries of the Central A f r ican Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) are free of all formalities. All imports from countries out- side the UDEAC are subject to either an authorization to import (where the value is more than CFAF 500,000) or a license to import. All imports, of any origin, are subject to authorization. For perishables and spare parts a provisional authorization is given to avoid adminis- trative delays. Imports from countries outside the UDEAC that are similar to, and compete with, domestic products are subject to licensing but, with a few excep- tions,2 licenses are granted liberally in practice. Some imports are prohibited for security and health reasons. All imports of commercial goods must be insured through authorized insurance companies in Gabon. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Authoriza- tions to import entitle importers to purchase the neces- sary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval, which is granted when the appropriate docu- ments are submitted. For many types of payment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are per- m i t ted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the fo rm of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange 2 Such as cement, sugar, and batteries. 169 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON allocation equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a person a trip (CFAF 100,000 for children under ten) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange remaining af ter return to Gabon must be surrendered. For business travel to foreign countries, there is a special allocation equivalent to CFAF 25,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 500,000 a trip. Tourist and business travel allocations may not be combined. Travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BEAC banknotes; the amount taken out is not deducted from the travel allocation. Travelers to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries may not export CFA or French banknotes in excess of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 (CFAF 100,000 for children under ten) for tourist tra- vel; for business travel the amount of such banknotes that may be carried out is the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 a day and CFAF 500,000 a trip. Transfers may be effected without limit through the bank ing or postal systems. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no general regulations concerning exports. Exports of refined petroleum products, cacao, coffee, and crocodile skins require authorization, irrespective of destination. Export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered. Export proceeds normally must be received within 150 days after the arrival of the commodities at their destination. The proceeds must be collected and, if received in a foreign currency, surrendered, within one month of the due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due f rom residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and, if received in foreign currency, be surrendered w i th in a month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Gabon and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital t ran s fe rs to all other countries require the approval of the Direc- torate of Foreign Financial Relations and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted 170 freely. All foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or non- residents that are held in Gabon by residents or non- residents must be deposited with authorized banks in Gabon. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in Gabon; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of controls over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Gabon, the control measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments abroad3 must be declared to the Ministry of Economy and Finance unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting f rom reinvestment of undistributed profits; the full or partial liquidation of such investments also must be declared to the Ministry unless the operation involves the re l inqu ish ing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Gabon4 must be declared to the Ministry, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting f rom reinvestment of undistributed profits; w i th in two months f rom receipt of the declara- tion the M in is try may request the postponement of the project. The fu ll or partial liquidation of direct invest- ments in Gabon must also be declared to the Ministry unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment in Gabon. Both the mak ing and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Gabonese investments abroad or foreign investments in Gabon, must be reported to the M in is try within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. The issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in Gabon requires prior authorization by the M in is t ry of Economy and Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with ( 1) loans backed by a guarantee f rom the Gabonese Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, advertising, or offer ing for sale in Gabon has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or jur id ical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of jur id ical persons whose 3 Including those made th rough fo re ign companies that are d irec t ly or indirectly controlled by persons in Gabon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Gabon. 4 Including those made by companies in Gabon that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries in Gabon of foreign companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The follow- ing are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Gabon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authoriza- tion, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Directorate of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 5 million or less. Lending abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The follow- ing are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks and (2) other loans, when the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The making of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Directorate of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operations, except when the total outstanding amount of all loans granted abroad by the lender does not exceed CFAF 5 million. GABON Under the Investment Code of December 4, 1961, as amended on March 23, 1967 and July 9, 1971, any enterprise to be established in Gabon, whether domestic or foreign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemp- tions f rom direct taxes on specified income. A mini- mum of 10 per cent state participation is required for any enterprise located in Gabon. The Code provides for four categories of preferential treatment. In addition to fiscal privileges, eligible companies may receive pro- tection against foreign competition and may be given priority in the allocation of imports, of public credit, and of government contracts. A Presidential Decree of April 11, 1975 provides that foreign companies investing in Gabon must offer shares for purchase by Gabonese nationals. Non-Gabonese firms or individuals are not perm i t ted to own land in Gabon. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Gabon. Imports and exports of gold require the authorization of the Ministry of Econ- omy and Finance. Exempt from this requirement are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities and (2) imports and exports of manu- fac tured articles con ta in ing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). The export of gold i s - the monopoly of the Societe Gabonaise de Recherches et d'Exploitation Minieres (SOGAREM). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1980 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 171 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of The Gambia is the Gambian Dalasi, which is pegged to the pound sterling, the in terven t ion currency, at D 4 = <£ stg. 1. The Central Bank of The Gambia deals in pounds sterling at the fixed rate of D4 = £ stg. 1, subject to a commission of 0.0625 per cent buy ing and 0.5 per cent selling. The commercial banks deal with customers for spot transactions in sterling at rates w i th in 1 per cent of the Central Bank's fixed rate and in other currencies at rates determined by the prevailing market rate in London for the currency concerned against the pound sterling. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is determined by the M in is try of Finance and Trade. The day-to-day adm in is t ra t ion of exchange control is carried out by the Central Bank. The commercial banks, which have been appointed as authorized dealers, may authorize sales of foreign cur- rencies for imports covered by specific licenses and, up to specified amoun ts, for travel expenses and sundry payments abroad. All other sales of fore ign currencies are subject to authorization by the Central Bank. The Ministry of Finance and Trade is responsible for the issue of import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Settlements with other countries may be made and received in dalasis or pounds sterling f rom nonres ident sources or in any other currency. Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States ( f or Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta) and Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Maur i- tan ia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are norma l ly made through the West A f r ican Clearing House. Nonresident Accounts Bank accounts held by authorized dealers in The Gambia on behalf of residents of countries o ther than Zimbabwe may be designated External Accounts. They may be credited with authorized payments f rom resi- dents of other countries, with transfers f rom other External Accounts, and with the proceeds of sales of other currencies. They may be debited for any paymen ts to residents of other countries, for t rans fe rs to other External Accounts, and for purchases of other curren- cies. In addition, there is legal provision for au thor ized dealers to ma in ta in Blocked Accounts und er the direc- t ion of the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments The import of certain specified goods is prohibited f rom all sources, predominantly for social or health rea- sons or on grounds of pub l ic policy. The import f rom any coun try of rice and wheat flour is subject to specific 172 licensing in order to ensure the adequacy of such imports and the ir f a ir domestic pricing. The Gamb ia Produce Ma rke t ing Board is responsible for rice imports. All other imports are freely permitted under an open gen- eral license if imported f rom member countries of the Economic Commun i ty of West A f r i c an States and the Commonwea l th countries. Impo r ts are subject to specific l icens ing if imported f rom other countries. Settlement for imports f rom other coun t r ies may be approved by an authorized dealer on p roduc t ion of evidence of impo r ta t ion for any commod i ty that is covered by a valid specific import license. For imports that do not requ i re specific l icens ing, payment au tho r iza- t ion is given by the Central Bank on produc t ion of evidence of impo r ta t ion or sh ipmen t. Advance pay- men ts for imports, whether or not these are covered by specific licenses, are approved by the Central Bank in all cases where the payment is considered genu ine and in accordance w i th no rmal commercial prac t ice. Pay- men ts for impo r ts may be made in da las is or s te r l ing to an Ex te rnal Account or in any other currency. All goods are subject to an import tax of 2.5 per cent of the c . i .f. va lue unless otherwise specified. Impor ts made by the Governmen t, d ip loma t ic missions, and cha r i tab le o rgan iza t ions are exempt. There have been some de lays in impo rt paymen t s. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for invisibles in fo re ign currenc ies requ ire perm iss ion f rom the Cen tral Bank, w i th the exception that authorized dealers have been delegated powers to au tho r ize t ravel expenses and s u n d ry paymen ts. Permis- sion is given in all genu ine cases. Irrespective of the purpose of the jou rney, au tho r ized dealers may g rant a bas ic exchange allowance up to D 750 a person a t r ip but not exceeding D 1,500 in any one ca lendar year for travel abroad. For business, p ro fess iona l, or off ic ial purposes, au thor ized dealers may p rov ide res iden ts w i th exchange fac i l i t ies up to D 1,750 for any one j o u r n ey at a ra te not exceeding D 125 a day, sub ject to a m a x im um of D 3,500 in any one ca lendar year. Any excess over these allowances requ ires pe rm iss ion f rom the Cen t ral Bank, but a ll such app l ica t ions are approved prov ided that no cap i tal ou tf low is invo lved. Of the above amoun t s, up to D 250 may be taken out in fo re ign cur- rency notes and co in. Irrespective of d e s t in a t ion, a trave ler leav ing The Gamb ia may take out D 75 in G amb i an a n d / or pound s t e r l ing cu r rency notes. V is i to rs to The Gamb ia may also take out w i th them on depar- tu re any other currency notes declared by them when en t e r ing the coun try. Exports and Export Proceeds Because of domestic requ iremen ts, the export of charcoal and firewood is subject to specific licensing. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution The export of all goods to Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Demo- cratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia also requires a specific license. The export of all other goods to any other destination is freely permitted under an open general license. The Gambia Produce Marke t ing Board is the sole exporter of groundnut products, oil palm kernels, cotton, and all derivatives of cotton. Payment for exports must be received within six months from the date of export in dalasis, or in pounds sterling f rom an External Account, or in any other currency. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in fore ign currencies must be offered for sale to authorized dealers. There is no restriction on the import of Gamb ian or other currency notes. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not controlled, but outward transfers are subject to control. At the time of making investments in The Gambia, nonresident inves- THE GAMBIA tors may apply for a clearance f rom the Central Bank to f a c i l i t a te subsequent repa t r ia t ion of cap i ta l; the r em i t- tance of prof i ts is allowed free ly a f t er prov is ion has been made for local taxes and other legally incurred l iab i l i t ies in The Gambia. All other app l ica t ions to t r a n s f er cap i tal abroad are dealt w i th by the Cen tral B ank. Loans and advances by the comme rc ial banks to nonres iden ts are subject to the au tho r iza t ion of the Central Bank. Such au thor iza t ion is no rm a l ly given f ree ly for the purpose of p rov id ing wo rk ing capital to companies registered ou ts ide The Gamb ia for the ir local operations. Gold The import of gold coin m in ted in the Un i t ed K ing- dom requ i res licensing by the M in i s t ry of F inance and Trade; otherwise, gold coin and bu l l ion may be imported f ree ly. All in te rnal dealings in gold and the export of gold require the permission of the Central Bank. Ne i ther the Central Bank nor the commercial banks deal in gold. Changes during 1980 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 173 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Federal Republic of Germany is the Deutsche Mark. Germany1 participates with Bel- gium, Denmark, France, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands in the exchange rate mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS ), whereby each country ma in ta ins the value of its currency in relation to the currencies of the other par t ic ipa t ing countries. Under this agreement, spot exchange rates between the deutsche mark and the currencies of the other participants are ma in ta ined w i th in marg ins of 2.25 per cent above or below the cross rates derived from the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs ), except for the Italian lira for which the temporary intervention limit is plus or m inus 6 per cent. The agreement implies that the Deutsche Bundes- bank (the central b ank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On Decem- ber 31, 1980 these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 Belgian or Luxembourg f rancs 1 00 Danish kroner 100 French francs 1 Irish pound 1,000 Italian lire 100 Netherlands guilders Deutsche Mark Upper limit Lower limit 6.380 32.870 43.415 3.799 2.276 92.525 6.099 31.420 41.505 3.632 2.019 88.455 The participants in the EMS are not ma in ta in ing the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper func t ion ing of the system, they intervene in concert with other partici- pants to smooth out erratic fluctuations in exchange rates. In principle, interventions are made in participat- ing currencies but they may also take place in third currencies, such as the U.S. dollar. Official middle, buying, and selling rates are quoted for 17 foreign currencies on the foreign exchange mar- ket of F rank fu rt am Main.2 In December 31, 1980 the official middle rate for the U.S. dollar was DM 1.9590 per US$ 1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Germany formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. 1 The term "Germany" is used in this survey as an abbreviation for the Federal Republic of Germany, including Berlin (West). 2 Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian and Luxembourg francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, Finnish m a rkk a a, French f ranc s, Irish pound s, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norweg ian k rone r, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 174 Administration of Control The administration of control in respect of imports and exports of goods and services is operated by the Federal Ministry of Economics, the Federal Ministry of Finance, the Federal Ministry of Transportation, the Federal Office for Trade and Industry, the Federal Ministry for Food, Agriculture, and Forestry, the Federal Office for Food and Forestry, the Federal Office for Agricultural Marketing Organization, and the Minis- tries of Economics of the Laender. Article 23 of the Foreign Trade and Payments Law (Aussenwirtschaftsgesetz) of 1961 has been invoked to apply direct controls to certain inward capital transac- tions between residents and nonresidents.3 The Deutsche Bundesbank is in charge of the implementation of the capital controls. The Bundesbank's prior approval is required for transactions involving the sale by residents to nonresidents of German money market paper and fixed-interest securities with a rema in ing ma tur i ty of up to two years or that are eligible for delivery under en pension transactions within two years; approval is automatically granted for maturities ranging from one to two years.4 All banks in Germany are permitted to carry out foreign exchange transactions. A voluntary coordinating body w i th in the bank ing system, the Central Capital Market Committee, formulates recommendations with regard to the timing of domestic and foreign bond issues, except issues by those institutions that have recourse to the capital market on a permanent basis. Imports and Import Payments The Import List comprises a total of 8,809 statistical positions. Their trea tment is as follows: some 8,040 items may be imported free of license f rom any country. Commodities corresponding to some 8,507 positions may be imported free of license f rom countries in Country List A /B .5 Certain petroleum products (7 positions) require a license irrespective of origin. Imports of coal from countries that are not members of the European Coal and Steel Community are permitted within the framework of an annual global quota. The Common Agricultural Policy of the EC covers 1,743 statistical items; most of these are subject to variable imports levies which in most cases have replaced previous barriers to imports, but for some items an import license is still required by EC regulations. De facto liberalization is applicable to certain com- modities (302 statistical items) when originating in and 3 The concepts of resident and nonresident are defined in Article 4, Section 1, and Article 4a of the Foreign Trade and Payments Law. 4 Since February 1981 approval is, in principle, also granted for maturities below one year. 5 Countries in List A/B are those of the former OEEC area and Finland and all other countries except those in List C. Countries in List C are Albania, member countries of the Council for Mu tual Economic Assistance (CMEA ), the People's Republic of China, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution purchased from Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., or Viet Nam. Under these arrangements, import licenses are issued automatically upon application, provided that domestic production and prices are not affected adversely (AMLA6 procedure). Imports of certain commodities among those not subject to licensing require, for surveillance purposes only, an import declaration stamped by the Federal Office for Trade and Industry. These import declara- tions are partly prescribed by the EC. For imports still subject to quantitative restriction (w i th certain exceptions, such as food items imported by tourists, samples, gifts, and small parcels), an ind iv idual import license is required. Applications are normally invited by tender (Ausschreibung) published in the Federal Official Gazette. Import licenses may be allocated to importers either on a first-come, first-served basis, or on the basis of the total value of applications in relation to the quotas established for specified commodities. Some tenders are permanently open (AMLA6 p rocedu re ). Payments for imports are free, even if the underlying import transaction is still restricted. Commodity fu tures may be dealt in freely. Most transit trade transactions may also be carried out freely. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely with- out individual license. German and foreign notes and coin and other means of payment may be exported freely. The following transactions —but not the related pay- ments —between residents and nonresidents are subject to restriction: the chartering of fore ign ships f rom resi- dents of specified countries and the conclusion of related sea freight contracts; the use of foreign boats in certain inland waterway t ra f f ic; transactions with specified countries (which do not grant reciprocal trea tmen t) for hull and marine liability insurance and aviation insur- ance, except passenger accident insurance; and the production of motion pictures in association with non- residents.7 Exports and Export Proceeds With few exceptions, export transactions may be carried out freely. For statistical purposes, an export notification is required for all goods. Certain exports (mostly strategic goods) are subject to individual licensing. The customs authorities exercise control over export declarations. Foreign exchange proceeds f rom exports do not have to be declared or surrendered, and they may be used for all payments. 6 Ausschreibungen mit laufender Antragstellung. 7 Restrictions are applied only to the acquisition f rom nonresidents of rights to films that are to be shown in the original German-speaking version or in a German-synchronized version, the acquisition of r igh ts to films of any kind originating in CMEA countries, and the accept- ance of film services from CMEA countries. FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY Proceeds front Invisibles With few exceptions, services performed for non- residents do not require licenses. However, licenses are required for transactions related to specific sea services and for technical assistance through the delivery to residents of List C countries (see footnote 5) of con- structional drawings, materials, and instructions for manufac ture, if such assistance is for the production of goods whose export requires a license. There are no restrictions on the receipt of payments for services rendered to nonresidents. However, receipts exceeding DM 1,000 on account of services have to be reported. German and foreign notes and coin and other means of payment may be imported freely. Capital Residents and nonresidents may, in principle, export capital freely without a license. Foreign and interna- tional bond issues on the German capital market do not require official approval, although a voluntary monitoring system of issuing banks is operated by the Central Capital Market Committee and recently has been used to discourage the outflow of por tfo l io capital. Other forms of capital outflow, particularly long-term loans from banks, have also been temporarily dis- couraged under the terms of a gentlemen's agreement. The placement abroad of bonds denominated in deutsche mark through the intermediation of sub- sidiaries of German banks in Luxembourg is banned under a gentlemen's agreement between the banks and the Bundesbank. In principle, domestic and foreign securities of all types may be imported or exported freely. Only a few types of capital inflows remain restricted. The prior approval of the Bundesbank is required for sales to nonresidents of specified domestic money market paper and of fixed-interest securities of German issuers with up to two years remaining to maturity, as well as for en pension transactions with nonresidents involving fixed-interest securities of German issuers where such securities are eligible for delivery in less than two years. However, approval is automatically granted for maturities ranging from one to two years (see also footnote 4 ). Nonresidents' direct investments in Ger- many, purchases of real estate in Germany for invest- ment or personal use, and purchases of German or foreign equities do not require approval. Interest payable to nonresident holders of fixed-interest securities of German issuers is subject to a withholding tax of 25 per cent ("coupon tax " ). There are no limitations on the disposal of legacies located in Germany and inherited by nonresidents or on legacies located abroad and inherited by residents. Residents are not required to repatriate or surrender their foreign exchange earnings or holdings. Banks are subject to m in imum reserve requirements on the level of their fore ign liabilities with ma tur i t ies of less than four years; the rates of deposit at the end of 1980 were, in principle, the same as those applicable to 175 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY domestic liabilities, i.e., 12.1 per cent, 8.5 per cent, and 5.4 per cent on demand, time, and savings deposits, respectively. The principal exemption is for banks' foreign currency borrowings that are immediately rein- vested abroad. Banks are free to pay interest on domestic or foreign currency balances held by non- residents. Gold Residents may free ly hold gold in any form at home or abroad and may negotiate gold in any form with residents or nonresidents, at home or abroad. There is a free gold market in F rank fu r t. Imports and exports of gold in any form by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license; a customs declaration, however, is required. Imports of gold bullion and coin, unworked gold, and gold alloys are free of customs duty but are subject to value-added tax at a rate of 13 per cent. In the case of imports of gold coin where the assessment basis exceeds 250 per cent of the fine gold value, the value- added tax is levied at a rate of 6.5 per cent. Imports of monetary gold by the Bundesbank are exempt from value-added tax and from customs duty. Domestic transactions in gold are subject to value-added tax at the same rate as imports, but under certain conditions no value-added tax is levied on transactions in gold bullion effected on gold exchanges between brokers who are admitted to these exchanges. Commercial imports and exports of articles containing gold are subject to the general foreign trade regulations and in all cases are liberalized. Changes during 1980 January 23. "Carter bonds" with maturities of two and a half and three and a half years and nominal interest rates of 8.50 and 8.45 per cent, respectively, were sold; the issue amounted to some DM 2 billion. (The proceeds were invested in government "borrowers' notes" callable at short-term notice.) February 1. The regulations limiting the open foreign exchange positions of banks were extended to cover their open positions in precious metals. February 7. Exchange and trade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe (formerly Rhodesia) were lifted. February 14. An agreement was concluded between the Bundesbank and credit institutions governing the sale of borrowers' notes to foreigners. The banks agreed not to place borrowers' notes with ma tur i t ies of five years or less abroad, while notes already held by banks could be placed abroad only if the remaining time to ma tu r i ty exceeded four years. (In March and Novem- ber 1980 the maturity limits were gradua l ly reduced to one year .) In early 1979 the banks had already declared themselves ready to forgo bond issues denominated in deutsche mark through their foreign subsidiaries, and this agreement was reconfirmed. March 17. The minimum maturity for domestic fixed-interest securities eligible for sale to nonresidents was lowered from four to two years. March 31. The Federal Government directly placed borrowers' notes denominated in deutsche mark with the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency amounting to some DM 2.5 billion with maturities of two and a half to eight years. (Similar transactions were undertaken later in the year .) March 31. The regulation came in to effect under which the Bundesbank, in its communication of Decem- ber 17, 1979, directed credit institutions with foreign subsidiaries to report monthly on the foreign assets and liabilities (by geographical location and currency) of their branches. April 8. The German Government reached an agree- ment with the U.S. Treasury under which the Treasury would invest DM 1 billion (obtained from in terven t ion) in Federal Government borrowers' notes denominated in deutsche mark and ma tu r ing at the same time as the "Carter bonds" issued earlier. May 1. The m in imum reserve requirements for domestic and foreign liabilities were lowered by 8 per cent across the board. September 1. Minimum reserve requirements for domestic and foreign liabilities were lowered by 10 per cent across the board. November 4. The Bundesbank reduced fu r ther from two years to one year the m in imum maturity for domes- tic fixed-interest securities eligible for sale to nonresidents. December 11. The Central Capital Markets sub- committee voted to halt any new issues of deutsche mark denominated bonds by nonresidents un t il January 1981, on which date this period was extended to February 1981. December 19. The Bundesbank concluded with the major commercial banks a gentlemen's agreement on voluntary curbs on capital exports to remain in force through the end of March 1981. 176 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ghana is the Ghanaian Cedi. In June 1978, Ghana introduced a flexible exchange system under which the exchange rate for the cedi in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, was to be adjusted to reflect the underlying economic, financial, and balance of payments situation. Such adjustments were discontinued, however, in August 1978 and had not been resumed by December 31, 1980. On Decem- ber 31, 1980 the official buying and selling rate for the U.S. dollar was 0 2.75 per US$1. Rates are also quoted for certain other currencies,1 with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. The authorized banks may exchange Ghanaian currency for any foreign currency. Different exchange rates for the cedi arise f rom the application of an export bonus scheme (10 per cent for all exports except cocoa) and from a 75 per cent surcharge on exchange allocations for foreign travel, as well as from mandatory cash margin deposits against import letters of credit. Administration of Control The Controller of Imports and Exports at the Ministry of Trade is empowered to prohibit, regulate, or license all imports and exports. Applications by the industrial sector and certain state agencies for ind iv idual import licenses must be channeled through the appropriate ministry or government agency for endorsement. The Controller of Imports and Exports issues import licenses on the basis of an import program drawn up by a tech- nical committee on imports, supervised by the Foreign Exchange and Import License Allocation Commission on which the Bank of Ghana and various ministries are represented. All import licenses must be signed by the Director of Imports. The Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana administers the allocation of exchange for payments for invisibles and capital. Per- mitted foreign exchange transactions must be made through authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements between residents of Ghana and residents of other countries are made in permitted currencies. However, settlements related to transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made through clear- ing accounts maintained by the Bank of Ghana and /or the central or state banks of the countries concerned.2 Furthermore, proceeds from exports to countries with 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, French francs, deutsche mark, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Nigerian na ira, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish k rone r, and Swiss francs. 2 Ghana maintains bilateral payments agreements with the People's Republic of China and Romania. A determination of the n a tu re of the arrangement between Ghana and Yugoslavia is under discussion. which Ghana does not have payments agreements must be received in the currency of the importing country (if that currency is among the currencies quoted by the Bank of Ghana) or in deutsche mark, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars. Current payments to or from the Central Bank of West Afr ican States ( for Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta) and The Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West A f r ican Clearing House. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident account status is granted to embassies, legations, consulates, and offices of high commissioners in Ghana and to the career and established members of their s taffs. This facility is also available to international institutions and foreign registered companies operating in Ghana. These accounts in cedis held by nonresidents with authorized banks in Ghana are designated Foreign Accounts. The opening of these accounts is subject to approval by the Bank of Ghana. The accounts may be credited with authorized outward payments, with trans- fers from other Foreign Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any convertible currency, other than restricted currencies. They may be debited for inward payments, for transfers to other Foreign Accounts, and for purchases of external currencies. Nonresident accounts maintained under the provisions of bilateral payments agreements are called "Official Accounts" or "Territorial Accounts." These accounts may be credited with authorized outward payments by residents, with transfers from Foreign Accounts, with payments received through the Bank of Ghana for settle- ments with bilateral payments agreement countries, and with proceeds f rom sales of external currencies, other than restricted currencies. They may be debited for authorized inward paymen ts to residents of Ghana, for transfers to other Official Accounts related to the same country, and for t rans fe rs to the related clearing account at the Bank of Ghana. Funds not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents, e.g., certain types of capital proceeds, may be deposited in Blocked Accounts. These accounts may be debited for authorized payments, including the purchase of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Namibia (South West A f r ica) and South Africa are not permitted. Imports of some goods, including virtually all textiles and textile products, chocolate, and chilled or frozen fish, are prohibited. Imports of cer ta in goods also produced in Ghana, certain luxury commodities, and certain goods deemed ha rm ful to health or public order are severely restricted. These are specified in a List of Restricted Imports. 177 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA Applications for the importation of items on the restricted list are normally not approved. There is an open general license which permits any importer to import freely from any country trade samples, personal or household effects, small gifts, single copies of publi- cations, domestic pets, headloads of foods tuffs from neighboring countries, fish caught by Ghanaian-owned vessels, and reimports. All other items require a specific import license. There is a list of commercial imports eligible for specific licenses which are issued for items that are considered essential within the framework of an annual import program. Certain imports are chan- neled through a bulk purchasing agent, the Ghana Na t ional Procurement Agency, or for public sector imports, the Ghana Supply Commission. For cases not requiring the provision of official foreign exchange, there is a special license by which specific goods could be imported in commercial quantities. Except for aid imports, import licenses do not specify the country f rom which the commodity has to be imported, but they do specify whether payment is to be made in convertible or inconvertible currency. Licenses for payment in inconvertible currencies may be used for imports from any paymen ts agreement coun t ry. Licenses are issued on a c. & f. basis and are endorsed to the effect that insurance must be covered in Ghana. Exchange for payment of approved imports is, in principle, granted freely by the Bank of Ghana. How- ever, arrears exist with respect to both current import payments and the repayments of ma tured 180-day trade credits established before February 7, 1972. With effect f rom January 2, 1980 the Bank of Ghana ceased to issue letters of credit or to perform other commercial banking operations related to import transactions. The Bank of Ghana, however, provides the necessary foreign exchange cover to the authorized banks. Most imports are effected with confirmed letters of credit established through Ghana ian banks, and usua l ly on a sight basis. Cash margin deposits are prescribed on the opening of letters of credit for most imports. The rates applicable are nil for crude oil and fertilizers; 25 per cent for industrial raw materials, chemicals, spare parts, lubri- cants, drugs and other medical supplies, and building materials; 50 per cent for machinery and equipment ( inc lud ing transport equipment other than automo- b i le s ); and 65 per cent for all other goods, including private passenger automobiles. For imports valued at- over US$2,000 f.o.b., banks are forbidden to make payments against a letter of credit or a bank d ra ft unless the import documents include a clean report of findings issued by the General Superintendence Com- pany Limited of Geneva, which inspects the goods and verifies the price, quality, and quantity in the country of origin or shipment. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require specific approval of the Exchange Control Department of the Bank of 178 Ghana, and documentary evidence must support all applications. Certain payments and transfers are in arrears. Transfers of normal bank charges payable to overseas bankers for import payments are generally authorized. The payment of buying commission on imports is not permitted. Freight charges may be paid to the local shipping agents; the transfer of funds to cover such charges is normally permitted, provided that the appli- cation is properly documented. With few exceptions, insurance on all imports shipped to Ghana on f.o.b. or c. & f. terms must be arranged in Ghana ian currency with local insurance companies. Remittances of income by non-Ghanaian employees are normally limited to 40 per cent of their net annual earnings, up to a max imum of US$2,600 a year plus leave pay; this personal remittance quota is intended to cover all personal and fam i ly requirements and commit- ments outside Ghana, inc lud ing leave expenses, travel, education, gifts, insurance premiums, subscriptions, and donations. Expatriate employees in the m in ing and petroleum industries and in certain other industries are not affected by the limit and, fu r the rmo re, are allowed to transfer their savings at the end of each tour of duty. Remittances of income by non-Ghanaian self-employed persons are also limited to 40 per cent of their net annual earnings, up to a max imum of US$2,600. With the exception of companies financed with locally raised capital, nonresident companies are, in principle, per- mitted to transfer abroad freely their net profits after tax; at present, however, transfers of profits are being authorized only on a limited basis. The transfer of profits by companies that have been financed with locally raised capital is not permitted. In addition, if supported by documentary evidence, outward remit- tance of up to 70 per cent of disposable income may be authorized in respect of payment of insurance premiums, educational expenses, interest and amortization on mortgages, and contributions to pension funds. The basic exchange allocation for tourist travel, which had been reintroduced on August 21, 1978, was suspended again on August 7, 1979; foreign exchange for business travel is granted once a year in an amount of US$85 a day for a max imum of two weeks. Addi- tional allocations are permitted for business travel in connection with export promotion. All travel allocations are subject to a tax of 75 per cent. Residents of any nationality (except children under two years of age, diplomats, and UN personnel) who are leaving Ghana by air or sea for any purpose, whether temporarily or not, must pay a travel tax of 75 per cent of the price of the round-trip ticket. Resident travelers may take with them foreign cur- rency notes equivalent to C 160, provided that not more than the equivalent of (240 is taken in any one cur- rency. Ghanaian banknotes up to (Z 40 may be taken out by any traveler. Nonresident travelers may take out ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution any unutilized foreign currency brought in and declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Namibia (South West A f r ica) and South Africa are prohibited. Exports of iron and steel scrap also are prohibited. Cocoa and certain other agricultural products are exported through a state-owned export agency, the Cocoa Council, and diamonds are exported through the Diamond Marketing Corporation. Normally, specific export licenses are required. Exporters are required to collect and repatriate the proceeds from their exports within 60 days of shipment; export proceeds in foreign exchange must be surrendered to a commercial bank in Ghana upon receipt. Exporters surrendering export proceeds in external A f r ican cur- rencies or convertible currencies are granted an export bonus. This bonus is 10 per cent of the proceeds for all exports except cocoa. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts f rom invisibles must be sold to authorized dealers. Under the Foreign Exchange (Cedi Voucher) Regulations, 1976, no visa or entry permit may be granted to travelers unless they have purchased in foreign exchange f rom Ghanaian embassies abroad, or on arrival in Ghana, vouchers corresponding to (Z 140 for the first day's stay plus (Z 70 for each subsequent day of their stay in the country. Foreign currency notes may be imported freely. The import of Ghana ian currency notes in excess of (2 20 is prohibited. Capital Foreign investment in Ghana requires prior approval by the Capital Investment Board if it is to benefit from the facilities available under the Capital Investments Decree of 1973. Investments approved under the Decree are guaranteed, in principle, the right to transfer profits and, in the event of sale or liquidation, capital proceeds; tax holidays, initial capital allowances, etc., are also available for such investments. The Decree stipulates that the assets of foreign investors may not be expropriated and that, when approved enterprises are nationalized, fa ir compensation is to be determined either by voluntary agreement of the parties or through arbitration by the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes. Certain areas of economic activity are not open to foreigners. Government policy aims at the "Ghanaianization" of many economic activities. This policy is implemented pr imar i ly on the basis of the Investment Policy Decree, 1975, and the Ghanaian Enterprises Development Decree, 1975. The proceeds of the sales of foreign ownership to Ghana ian nationals are held in blocked, noninterest-bearing accounts with the Bank of Ghana; these accounts carry an exchange rate guarantee. Transfers of such funds are being effected gradually. All outgoing capital movements must be approved by the Bank of Ghana; applications for such transfers must GHANA be supported by documentary evidence and are con- sidered on their merits. Transfers to beneficiaries under wills and intestacies are approved, provided that all local indebtedness has been settled. Requests for the transfer of funds representing personal assets of fore ign residents in Ghana who emigrate are considered individually on their merits. Applications must be supported by appro- priate documentation showing that the savings are genuine and that no illegal t rans fer of capital is involved. Proceeds from the liquidation of the real assets of foreign nationals leaving Ghana may be approved for transfer in one lump sum or may be spread over a period of time, depending on the amount. Loan and overdraft facilities to resident companies controlled by nonresidents require the individual approval of the Bank of Ghana. Residents who are private persons are not normally granted foreign exchange for the acquisition of securities or personal real estate abroad. Transactions in securities are controlled to ensure that capital is not transferred abroad. In respect of por tfo l io investments, residents must obtain approval for any switch in the ir holdings of securities issued by nonresidents. New borrow ing abroad by the public sector is screened by the Parliament. Pr iva te sector and commercial bank borrowing require the approval of the Bank of Ghana as do private import credits in excess of 0100,000 for machinery and equ ipmen t; foreign borrowing by Gh an a i an na t iona ls is subject to certain guidelines by the Government. Lending to nonresidents is proh ib i ted, except for export credits; these require exchange control approval and normally are limited to 60 days. Gold Residents may hold and negotiate in Ghana gold obtained domestically by washing or m in ing according to indigenous methods, gold coins that are collectors' pieces, and gold jewelry. Other domestic transactions in gold, as well as imports and exports, may be author- ized by the Ministry of Trade in collaboration with the Bank of Ghana, and certain domestic sales may be carried out by permit under the Gold M in ing Products Protection Ordinance. With these exceptions, Ghanaian residents may not buy or borrow any gold from, or sell or lend any gold to, any person other t h an an authorized dealer. Imports of gold other than imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities are not normally licensed. The import duty on bullion and partly worked gold is 10 per cent and that on other gold is 50 per cent. The gold mines export their output in semi-refined form. Exports by any one person or firm in excess of 100,000 ounces are subject to export tax at a rate of 0 3 per troy ounce. Changes during 1980 January 2. The Bank of Ghana ceased to issue letters of credit or to perform other commercial banking opera- tions relating to import transactions; it would, however, 179 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA to foreign exchange cover provide the necessary authorized banks. January 3. Guidelines were established w i th respect to the acceptance of unsolicited foreign loans by Ghanaian na t iona ls, as follows: ( 1) the Government reserved the right to investigate the s tand ing and reputa- tion of any such lenders; (2) assurance would be required from a reputable unde rw r i t ing group selected by the Government that the f u n ds were available and transferab le; ( 3) evidence that such f u n ds were not being made available through normal borrowing channels; and (4) the Government would deal directly with the pr in- cipals and reserved the right to disclose their names. June 5. The Bank of Ghana announced that suppliers' credits may be granted for imports in the fo l low ing categories: agriculture, t imber and wood processing, m in ing, export-oriented indus tr ies inc lud ing hotels and tourism transpor t, rehab i l i ta t ion of existing industries, and raw materials for export-oriented industrial units. June 27. The tax on airline travel and foreign exchange allocations for travel was raised f rom 15 per cent to 75 per cent; foreign exchange allocations for medical and educa t ional expenses were made subject to a tax of 75 per cent. September 18. Impor ts of p r iva te automobiles were prohibited for a two-year period. December 4. A sales tax of 20 per cent was imposed on imports of final goods. December 5. An import license tax of 10 per cent was introduced. 180 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement1 The currency of Greece is the Greek Drachma. The authorities of Greece operate a managed float for the drachma, and do not ma in ta in margins in respect of exchange transactions. On December 31, 1980 buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, in the in terbank market were D r46 .395 and Dr46 .675, respectively, per US$1. Quotations for cer- tain other currencies2 are de term ined daily in the inter- bank market. A compulsory commission is charged on all foreign exchange transactions. The commission rate declines f rom 0.2 per cent to 0.00625 per cent as the size of the transaction increases f rom Dr 250,000 to Dr 30 million. The m in imum charge is Dr 50, and a maximum charge of Dr 4,500 is applied only to pur- chases of foreign exchange. The Bank of Greece offers forward cover in U.S. dollars only. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, the Currency Committee, the Credit Subcommittee, the Foreign Exchange Control Subcommittee, and the Foreign Exchange Subcomm i t tee for Financial Requirements. Under Law No. 936 /79, the Ministry of Commerce is responsible for import and export policy. Exchange control is implemented, and foreign exchange approvals for imports are granted by the Bank of Greece and authorized commercial banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Bank of Greece, authorized banks, and the M in is try of Commerce and, in some cases, require the prior approval of the appropriate ministry. The authorized banks may make exchange settlements re la t ing to permitted trade transactions and may g rant residents a s tandard travel allowance. They may also make exchange paymen ts for a number of specified transac t ions in invisibles. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries are made in any con- vertible currency or through External Sight Deposit Accounts in convertible drachmas. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may m a in t a in accounts in Greece, as follows: 1. Deposits in foreign exchange under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53. Nonresidents may establish time deposit accounts in fore ign currency for a m i n im um !On Janua ry 1, 1981 Greece joined the Eu ropean C omm u n i t y. Greece does not par t ic ipa te in the exchange r a te and i n t e r v e n t i on m e ch an i sm of the European Mone tary System. 2 Australian dollars, Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian f r an c s, Canad ian dollars, Cyprus pounds, Danish k rone r, deu tsche m a r k, Finnish ma rkkaa, French f rancs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norweg ian k rone r, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. period of six months and w i th a m in imum deposit in convertible currenc ies equ iva lent to US$10,000; balances on these accounts earn in terest not exceed ing 8 per cent a year. Interest rates va ry according to the term of the account, but l im i ts are fixed, as fo l lows: for 6 months to 12 mon ths, 7 per cent a yea r; for 12 months to 24 months, 7.5 per cent a yea r; and for 24 mon ths and over, 8 per cent a year. P r inc ipal and in te rest are free ly transferab le at m a tu r i ty in the cu r rency of the deposit. 2. External Sight Deposit Accounts in convertible drachmas and in foreign currencies. Non res iden ts are permitted to open Ex ternal Sight Deposit Accoun ts in convertible d rachmas or fo re ign cu r renc ies. Deposits in conver t ib le drachmas are assigned by a b a nk to the Bank of Greece against d rachmas at the official ra te of exchange. Deposits in conve r t ib le fo re ign cu r rency are held by the banks. Any w i thd r aw al f rom d rachma accounts for use in Greece and any convers ion of w i th- drawals f rom fo re ign cu r rency accounts into d rachmas entails the loss of the reconvers ion r ight for the sums w i thd rawn. At the end of 1980, the m ax imum rate of interest on such accounts w i th the banks was 1.5 per cent a year. These accounts may be credited with (a) conver t ib le fo re ign exchange or the proceeds f rom sales of convertible cu r renc ies; (b) au tho r ized paymen ts by residents of Greece for impor ts or services payab le in convertible currenc ies; (c) t ran s fe rs f rom o ther Ex t e rn al Sight Deposit Accounts; and (d) accrued interest on these deposits. They may be debited for (a) paymen ts to residents for cu r r ent t ran sac t ion s, exports, and serv- ices; (b) the purchase and t r an s f er abroad of any con- vertible currency; and (c) t r an s f e rs to o ther Ex ternal Sight Deposit Accounts. 3. Time Deposit Accounts in Convertible Foreign Exchange. Nonres iden ts may make t ime deposits in convertible fore ign exchange w i th banks authorized to deal in fo re ign exchange. The m i n im um period of such deposits is three mon ths, and the in te rest rate is deter- mined f ree ly by the banks accord ing to rates ob ta in ing abroad, provided that the banks hold the fore ign cur- rency and pay interest out of ea rn ings derived f rom investing these deposits abroad. 4. Deposits in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and pounds sterling. Such deposits may be made as follows: (a) Greek citizens ( inc lud ing seamen) wo rk ing abroad, ce r ta in Greek societies and associations operat- ing abroad, and Greek nationals residing abroad may make, with f u n ds o r ig ina t ing abroad, deposits in U.S. dollars, Canad ian dollars, and pounds s ter l ing w i th authorized banks in Greece. The per iod, interest rates, and other terms of the deposits are determined free ly by the banks. At the end of 1980 the m a x im um in te rest rates payable on these accounts were (i) 1.5 per cent for sight deposits; ( i i) 8 per cent for savings deposit 181 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE accounts in U.S. dollars and Canadian dollars and 12 per cent for such accounts in pounds sterling; and ( i i i) for time deposits, depending on the time and the amount, 13-20 per cent for accounts in U.S. dollars, 13.75-18 per cent for accounts in Canadian dollars, and 13.5-14.4 per cent for accounts in pounds sterling. Should the depositor decide at the time of deposit to withdraw accrued interest in drachmas, the interest rate is increased by 1.5 percentage points annually. The banks are obliged to redeposit with the Bank of Greece at least 70 per cent of the increase in such deposits a f ter May 1, 1980, at interest rates set by the Bank of Greece in accordance with developments in the Eurodollar market. The remaining 30 per cent can be deposited abroad, withheld by the bank, or deposited with the Bank of Greece for a period of up to 12 months. (b) The banks are not obliged to redeposit with the Bank of Greece for certain categories of deposits, as follows: (i) deposits of shipping ( inc lud ing the ship- owners), insurance, and construction companies and of Olympic Airways and ( i i) deposits above the equiva- lent of US$200,000 for each depositor w i th in the cate- gories mentioned in 4 ( a) above. 5. Deposits in other convertible currencies (excluding U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and pounds sterling). Greek citizens (including seamen) wo rk ing abroad and certain Greek societies and associations opera t ing abroad may open, with funds originating abroad, convertible foreign currency accounts in deutsche mark and other currencies (excluding U.S. dollars, Canad ian dollars, and pounds sterling) with authorized banks in Greece. The period and the other terms of the deposits are free ly determined by the banks. The Bank of Greece estab- lishes max imum interest rates for each type and currency of deposit based on developments in the internal money markets of the countries in whose currencies the deposits are denominated. Should the depositor decide at the time of deposit to withdraw accrued interest in drach- mas, the interest rate is increased by 1.5 percentage points annually. At the end of 1980 the max imum inter- est rates payable on these accounts were (a) for accounts in Belgian francs and French f rancs: 3 per cent a year for sight deposits, 13 per cent a year for savings deposits, and 14.5 per cent a year for time deposits of 1-12 months; (b) for accounts in Swiss francs: 2 per cent a year for sight deposits, 5 per cent a year for savings deposits, and 7 per cent a year for time deposits of 1-12 months; (c) for accounts in Australian dollars, Japanese yen, and Netherlands guilders: 3 per cent a year for sight deposits, 6 per cent a year for savings deposits, and 12 per cent a year for time deposits of 1-12 months; (d) for accounts in Swedish kronor: 3 per cent a year for sight deposits, 11 per cent a year for savings deposits, and 13 per cent a year for time deposits of 1-12 months; and (e) for accounts in deutsche mark and other convertible currencies: 3 per cent a year for sight deposits, 7 per cent a year for savings deposits, 182 and 11 per cent a year for time deposits of 1-12 months. Withdrawals in drachmas entail the loss of the reconver- sion right for the sums withdrawn. The banks are obliged to surrender the entire for- eign exchange proceeds to the Bank of Greece at fixed parities in exchange for drachmas. Balances on these accounts, including accrued interest, are freely conver- tible into foreign exchange against reconversion of drachmas at the same fixed parities that were applied at the time of original conversion. Similar facilities for fore ign currency accounts exist under a Housing Loan Deposit Scheme. 6. Blocked Accounts. All drachma assets of nonresi- dents other than those in External Sight Deposit Accounts must be declared, and are held in Blocked Accounts. Domestic banknotes in excess of Dr 1,500 brought in by nonresident travelers must also be credited to a Blocked Account, as must certain income accru ing in Greece to nonresidents. Subject to the approval of the exchange control au tho r i t ies, balances on Blocked Accoun ts held by res iden ts of all coun tr ies excluding Turkey and Israel may be used for such purposes as (a) travel expenses for each visit to Greece and per- sonal expenses in Greece up to Dr 100,000 a month of the visitor's stay in Greece and up to Dr 50,000 for other members of his fam i ly; for residents of Turkey or Israel, the correspond ing l im it is Dr 25,000 annua l ly; (b) expenses for buy ing t icke ts for a max imum of two t r ips to Greece by the depositor and other members of his f am i l y; (c) expenses for pay ing taxes and lawyers' fees; and (d) inves t ing in securities off ic ia l ly listed on the stock exchange in Greece and purchasing real estate in Greece. Payments abroad f rom funds in Blocked Accounts held by residents of countries that have special agreemen ts w i th Greece3 may be released for rem i t tance prov ided that (a) where the money deposited is derived exclusively f rom rents, amoun ts of up to US$1,000 (or its equ iva len t) may be transferred abroad semian- nua l ly and (b) where the money deposited is derived exclusively f rom pensions and the holder has been resi- dent abroad since before December 31, 1974, up to US$300 a month, plus bonuses for New Year, Easter, and vacation, up to a to tal of US$4,200 annua l ly may be remitted abroad. Funds derived f rom dividends of postwar public loans and loans of public organ iza t ions are f ree ly t rans fe rab le abroad, and other balances on Blocked Accounts may be transferred abroad if the pr ior approval of the Bank of Greece is obtained. All t rans fe rs between Blocked Accounts require prior approval. The amounts that may be withdrawn from Blocked Accounts d i f fer in cases where the holders do not live in the countries listed in footnote 3. Balances on Blocked Accounts held by private individuals in EC member countries are scheduled to be released in six 3 Au s t r a l i a, Au s t r ia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Federal Repub l ic of Germany, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Nether- lands, No rway, Por tuga l, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, United King- dom, and United States. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution equal annual installments during the period Janua ry 1, 1981 to December 31, 1985. Blocked balances may be deposited either with the Bank of Greece where they bear no interest, or with a commercial bank, the Consignations and Loans Fund, and the Postal Savings Bank, where they earn interest of 11.5 per cent a year. Resident Accounts Greek citizens have the option to open accounts in foreign exchange of the types described in paragraphs 4 and 5 above with foreign exchange earned as salaries from work abroad or as payments received for services performed outside Greece. Imports and Import Payments All imports require approval (except those of goods on Lists F and P with an invoice value c.i.f. of the equiv- alent of US$1,650 or less, for which payment must be made through an authorized b a n k ). The granting of an import approval implies that the necessary foreign exchange will be made available. Two general proce- dures (E and D) are applied to import approvals. Under procedure D, an approval issued by the Bank of Greece is required (1) for certain imports effected for the account of the State; (2) for imports for which the importer requests changes in the general provisions con- cerning the terms of shipment, method of settlement, terms of payment, etc.; and (3) for imports from cer- tain countries. All other imports are made under pro- cedure E and approval is granted by a commercial bank. Import approvals must be obtained prior to shipment and require the presentation of a certified pro forma invoice. Import licenses are required only for imports of com- modities in List A (including gold, textiles, television receivers, and certain foods tu f fs) and List B (certain types of machinery and spare p a r t s ). For a few items on List A licenses are being issued restrictively, but for the remainder they are issued automatically. Special regulations govern imports of certain items, such as goods under monopoly control, medicines, narcotics, sulfur, and motion-picture films. Private imports are subject to ( 1) restrictions on the method of payment; (2) controls over the time period required to make final settlement and the time of ship- ment; and (3) various advance deposit requirements. For the purpose of these regulations, all private imports are classified in six lists (F, F-50/1-2, F-100/1-2, a n d P ). Payments for imports may be made by letter of credit, by cash against shipping documents, or by acceptance of time drafts. Payment by time d ra ft is permitted only for goods in List P; there is no restriction on maturity. For imports not included in List P, the Committee for Regulating Matters Concerning Imports at the Bank of Greece may authorize longer payment periods and may also approve deferred payments. Payments for imports GREECE may be made on the presentation of entry documents. Various advance deposit requirements apply to imports included in Lists F-50/1-2 and F-100/1-2. Deposits are accepted by the intervening commercial bank, which redeposits them with the Bank of Greece. These deposits do not bear any interest. Certain com- panies, public agencies, and organizations that have been designated public service institutions are exempt f rom the advance deposit requirements. Also, duty-free impo r ts and imports for processing and re-export are exempt f rom these requirements. The Committee for Regulating Matters Concerning Imports has authority to grant exemption. Different deposit requirements are stipulated, depending upon whether payments are made by letters of credit or cash against shipping documents. Advance deposits are not required for imports for which payment is to be made by acceptance of time draf ts. Generally, when a letter of credit is opened, the impor ter is required to deposit in drachmas the entire amount of the credit with the intervening bank; this deposit is retained by the bank to safeguard against defau l t, and the final settlement is made against this deposit. Moreover, in the case of imports included in Lists F-50/ 1-2 and F-100/1-2, a cash deposit related to the c.i.f. value is required as security for import duties and other taxes. For imports under proce- dure E, this deposit must be made when the import approval is obtained; for imports under procedure D, the deposit must be made w i th in 20 days of the import approval. The deposit is retained for a m i n im um period of two to four months f rom the date on which it was made and is refunded upon final settlement. For goods not included in Lists F-50/1-2 and F-100/1-2, advance deposits are refunded upon delivery of the sh ipp ing documents and the customs clearance. In the case of imports for which payment is made by cash against shipping documents, when the importer applies for an import approval, he is required to deposit in cash a certain proportion of the c.i.f. invoice value (p repaymen t ); a cash deposit of a certain proportion of the c.i.f. value is also required as security for import duties and other taxes.4 Security deposits are not required, however, for capital goods and spare parts that are exempt f rom import duty by v ir tue of the laws governing inves tment of foreign or domestic capital. The deposit must be made with the intervening bank (1) at the time the import approval is obtained for imports under procedure E and (2) within 20 days of ob ta in ing the import approval for imports under proce- du re D. The deposits of the first and the second category are retained for a m in imum period of two to four months and are refunded upon final settlement. For goods not included in Lists F-50/1-2 and F-100/1-2, advance deposits are refunded upon delivery of the shipping documents and the customs clearance. 4 For goods impo r ted and cleared through customs in the Dodecanese Islands, the advance against import duties and other taxes is reduced by 50 per cent. 183 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE The rates of deposit in effect in 1980 are set out below:5 ListF-50/1 ListF-50/2 ListF-100/1 ListF-100/2 Prepayment Security Total (In per cent of invoice value) 50.0 20.0 70.0 16.0 6.4 22.4 100.0 40.0 140.0 32.0 12.8 44.8 Goods must be shipped within six months and arrive in Greece within three months of shipment. Final settle- ment of the value of imported goods must take place within 60 days following the date of arrival at the first Greek port; however, for goods in List P, settlement must take place within 120 days following the date of arrival. Most imports are subject to a stamp tax of 2-5 per cent of the c.i.f. duty-paid and tax-paid value. Special regulations govern imports by state agencies, public entities, and public utility companies. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require approval, but this is granted freely for expenses incidental to authorized trade transactions and for certain other transactions. Residents traveling abroad for fam i ly reasons or tour- ism are entitled to the equivalent of US$250 for one trip a year;6 in lieu of this allowance, tourists participat- ing in group tours are granted an amount based on a cost declaration submitted by the travel agency. Requests for larger amounts or for other types of travel are submitted to the Foreign Exchange Subcommittee for Financial Requirements. The Bank of Greece nor- mally provides foreign exchange for travel other than tourism, within the following limits: US$3,000 a trip for exporters; US$2,000 a trip for industrialists and hotel managers; US$650 a trip for other businessmen; US$1,000 a trip for scientists attending international meetings; and US$750 a trip for newspaper editors and reporters and travel agents. For medical treatment abroad, the Subcommittee authorizes any amount for transfer direct to a foreign hospital, provided that the relevant accounts are submitted. For undergradua te and postgraduate studies, various allocations are authorized, depending on the country of study, such as US$450 and US$490 a month, respectively, for the United States and Canada, <£ stg. 200 and <£ stg. 220 a month, respec- 5 These rates were reduced by 25 per cent with effect f rom Janua ry 1, 1981, the new levels being as follows: Prepayment Security (In per cent of invoice value) ListF-50/1 37.5 15.0 52.5 ListF-50/2 12.0 4.8 16.8 ListF-100/1 75.0 30.0 105.0 ListF-100/2 24.0 9.6 33.6 6 On Janua ry 1, 1981 the annual tourist allowance was raised to the equivalent of ECU 400 a person for travel to EC member countries. Total 184 tively, for the United Kingdom, and DM 770 and DM 920 a month, respectively, for the Federal Republic of Germany. Authorized banks are also empowered to grant foreign exchange up to US$200 for a limited num- ber of other transactions. Travelers may take with them a max imum of Dr 1,500 in Greek banknotes. Greek nationals, not including those resident abroad, are required to declare all domes- tic and foreign banknotes and other valuables taken w i th them upon leaving Greece. Nonresident travelers on leaving Greece may freely take with them up to US$500 in foreign banknotes without having declared them upon entry; the export of larger amounts a f ter a visit of less than 12 months is also not subject to approval, provided that there was a declaration upon entry. Approval is required for larger sums that have been declared. Payments of interest, profits, and dividends are restricted,7 and special regulations and limits apply to outward remittances of interest, dividends, and profits (see section on Capital, below). Exports and Export Proceeds Almost all exports require individual licenses and are free of quan t i ta t ive limitation. Export proceeds must be surrendered within 180 days from the date of export of the goods; in special cases, however, the authorities are empowered to extend this period to two years for manu fac tu res and to one year for other commodities. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts representing payments for services must be surrendered. Exchange proceeds from shipping are exempt from the surrender requirement, but ship- owners have to pay for supplies, repairs, etc., and any taxes and fees, and must cover their disbursements and expenses in Greece in local currency obtained through the sale of foreign exchange to the Bank of Greece. Travelers may bring in a maximum of Dr 1,500 in Greek banknotes. Any surplus is deposited in a blocked account with the Bank of Greece; subject to prior approval by the Bank, the surplus may be taken out on depar ture or spent in Greece on personal requirements. Greek residents re turn ing to Greece must declare the foreign exchange in their possession if they wish to take it out for the next journey. Nonresident travelers of foreign nationality may import any amount of foreign currency and need not declare it at the time of entering the country, and nonresidents holding Greek passports are required to declare their foreign exchange only if they intend, when leaving Greece, to take out again foreign exchange in excess of US$500 or its equivalent. Capital Commercial banks and investment banks may borrow convertible currencies abroad, provided that they lend 7 Res tr ic t ions on payments of interest, profits, and dividends to EC member countries were abolished on Janua ry 1, 1981. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution corresponding amounts as foreign currency loans (or drachma loans with a foreign exchange clause) for periods of at least five years to productive enterprises established in Greece. All other investments in Greece by nonresidents are subject to approval (mainly for securing repatriation of imported capital). Such approval is automatic for purchases of real estate for personal use, but repatriation of the proceeds of liquida- tion is subject to Currency Committee's approval. Under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53, approved foreign investments which aim at the promotion of national production or otherwise contribute to the economic advancement of Greece may be granted preferential treatment.8 Under Law No. 4171 /61, as amended by Legislative Decree No. 4256/62, by Legislative Decree No. 916 of July 14, 1971, and by Law No. 159 of September 9, 1975, fu r ther privileges are provided for foreign capital participating in investment projects in Greece exceeding Dr 150 million in value. Moreover, Legislative Decree No. 4256/62 provides additional repatriation facilities for foreign investments which promote exports. Repatriation requirements are as follows: (1) Approved investments may not be repatriated before one year from the date the enterprise begins to operate productively and in no case before one year from the date the capital was imported. (2) The repatriation of foreign capital may not exceed 10 per cent a year of the amount of capital imported. The repatriation of dividends on equity capital and of interest on loan capital may not exceed 12 per cent a year and 10 per cent a year, respectively. (3) Under the provisions of Law No. 4171/61, profits on approved foreign invest- ments may be transferred abroad in amounts not exceed- ing 6 per cent a year of the repatriated portion of the capital, provided, however, that the amount of profits transferred shall not exceed 8 per cent of the foreign exchange earnings of the enterprise from the sale of its products abroad. (4) For investments made under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 that are not covered by Law No. 4171/61, the transfer of profits is related to the residual capital remaining in Greece, and the trans- fer privilege expires as soon as all capital has been repa- triated. (5) Article 33 of Law No. 849/78 provides for a higher percentage for the repatriation of capital (up to 15 per cent) and of dividends (up to 20 per cen t ), provided that the total amount does not exceed 30 per cent of the foreign exchange earnings of the firm from exports during the same year. Also, loans in for- eign currency approved under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 can be repatriated at an annual rate of up to 20 per cent, provided that the amount of the loan does not exceed twice the value of the share capital. Deviations from the general regulations may be 8 This decree also provides for the opening of foreign currency accounts by nonresidents and the retransfer of the deposits as well as the transfer of interest thereon. GREECE approved for foreign capital imported to develop exports of agricultural and m in ing products or invested in enter- prises of special importance to the economy. Specified foreign short-term investment may also be granted pref- erential treatment in respect of the repatriation of capital and the t rans fer of interest. Transfers of capital abroad by residents require approval. The purchase abroad of securities or of real estate for personal use is not normally permitted. Gold Residents may free ly purchase specified gold coins (ma in ly sovereigns) from the Bank of Greece, through licensed stockbrokers, at prices set by the Bank of Greece; these coins may be resold only to the Bank of Greece or to licensed stockbrokers. Holders of gold coin acquired in the free market that existed prior to Decem- ber 22, 1965 may sell these anonymously and without fo rma l i ty to the Bank of Greece or to an authorized bank at the official price. Residents may deal freely, however, in bullion. Imports of gold against payment in foreign exchange are on Import Lists A and F and require a special license; licenses are normally issued to reputable importers for distribution to recognized users, such as jewelers and dentists. Gold bars and gold coin may be imported freely by commercial banks and other residents as well as nonresidents when no payment in foreign exchange is involved. Exports of gold other than by the Bank of Greece are not approved, except that gold bars or coin brought in by travelers and declared upon en try may, with the prior approval of the Bank's Credit Subcommittee, be re-exported by the same person. Changes during 1980 February 23. A voluntary unders tand ing was reached between the Government and importers to restrict imports of luxury goods. Nonessential imports were to be reduced in 1980 by 15 per cent below the level in 1978; imports of transportation equipment were to be reduced by 20 per cent. March 7. Subsidized interest rates for exports to EC countries were reduced by the same percentage rate as in 1979, with the exception of ten categories of goods for which the reduction was 20 per cent below the level in 1979. April 25. The additional advance import deposit of 75 per cent and the 25 per cent tax on certain imports were abolished. May 1. New rates of deposits were set concerning prepayment and security of imports of goods included in Lists F-50/1-2 and F-100/1-2. May 1. Banks were permitted to freely set interest rates, the period, and other terms for deposits in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and pounds sterling. August 1. Banks were permitted to freely set the period and other terms of deposits in other convertible 185 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE currencies (excluding U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and pounds sterling). The Bank of Greece would estab- lish maximum interest rates for each type and currency of deposit based on developments in the internal money markets of the countries in whose currencies the deposits are denominated. August 27. A managed interbank foreign exchange market was introduced on a limited basis. By the middle of October the market was to begin a phased replace- ment of the existing system wherein the Bank of Greece fixed the value of the drachma each day against currencies of Greece's major trading partners. November 10. Foreign exchange controls were lib- eralized for specified foreign trade related expenses, such as promotion, freight, fees for technical advice, and similar expenses, from US$1,000 to US$5,000. Commercial banks may, without prior approval of the Bank of Greece, allot increased foreign exchange for expenses, such as insurance for imported products, from US$100 to US$500 and for packing, from US$1,000 to US$5,000. November 12. The interbank foreign exchange mar- ket replaced the quotation of exchange rates by the Bank of Greece. November 15. The voluntary understanding between the Government and importers to limit imports was terminated. December 31. All bilateral payments agreements were terminated. A transitional period of six months was set for the liquidation of all clearing balances out- standing on January 1, 1981 (four months for the agree- ment with the People's Republic of Ch ina). 186 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Grenada is the East Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the East Caribbean Currency Authority. The East Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 = US$1. The buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are EC$2.6882 and EC$2.7169, respectively, per US$1. The Currency Authority also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. A 5 per cent exchange tax is levied on all sales of foreign exchange by commercial banks, except for payments for imports of some basic foods and drugs. Administration of Control Exchange control applies to all countries. It is admin- istered by the Ministry of Finance, Trade, Industry, and Planning. The Ministry delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve some import payments and certain other outward payments. The exchange control directives do not apply to transactions with South Africa. Trade controls also are administered by the Ministry of Finance, Trade, Industry, and Planning. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM) 2 must be made either through External Accounts (in East Caribbean dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned. Settlements with residents of the fo rmer Sterling Area countries, other than CARICOM countries, may be made in sterling, in any other former Sterling Area currency, or in East Caribbean dollars to and f rom External Accounts. Settlements with residents of coun- tries outside the former Sterling Area other than South Africa may be made in any foreign currency3 or through an External Account in East Caribbean dollars. Nonresident Accounts External Accounts may be opened for nonresidents by authorized dealers without reference to the Ministry of Finance, Trade, Industry, and Planning. These accounts are maintained in East Caribbean dollars. They may be credited with proceeds from the sale of foreign curren- cies, with transfers from other External Accounts, with bank interest (payable on External Accoun ts), and with payments by residents for which general or specific per- mission has been given by the Ministry. They may be debited for payments to residents of Grenada, for the 1The East Caribbean dollar is also the currency of An t igua, Dominica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Luc ia, and St. Vincent and Grenadines. 2 The CARICOM countries are Antigua, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3 Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the East Caribbean dollar. cost of foreign exchange required for travel or business purposes, and for any other payments covered by dele- gated authority to authorized dealers. Other debits and any overdraf ts require individual approval. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom South A f r ica are prohibited. Most goods may be freely imported under open general license f rom all other countries. Certain other commodities require individual licenses, unless they are imported from CARICOM countries. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence (invoices and customs warran ts) to the Ministry of Finance, Trade, Industry, and Planning; however, the M in is t ry has delegated to authorized dealers powers to approve the payment of imports originating in CARICOM countries. Advance payments for imports also require prior approval by this Ministry. Imports not exempt from customs duty are subject to a stamp tax of 7.5 per cent of the c.i.f. value. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange control approval. Au tho r i ty has been delegated to authorized dealers to provide basic allocations of foreign exchange for a few types of payments. These include foreign travel ( for which up to EC$3,000 a person a calendar year may be allocated for private travel and up to EC$7,000 a person for business t rave l ), subscriptions to magazines and periodicals, and l ife insurance pre- m iums on policies contracted before June 1975. With the exception of tou r ism, applications for additional amoun ts or for purposes for which there is no basic allocation norma l ly are approved by the Ministry of Finance, Trade, Industry, and Planning, provided that no unauthorized transfer of capital is involved. Appli- cations in respect of tourism in excess of EC$3,000 a person are considered on their merits. The cost of trans- portation to any destination may be settled in domestic currency and is not deducted f rom the travel allocation. Resident travelers may take out foreign currency notes and coin up to the equivalent of EC$3,000 and East Caribbean currency notes without limit. Nonresident travelers may freely export any foreign currency pre- viously brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South A f r ica are prohibited, and specific licenses are required for the export of certain goods to any des t ina t ion. There are no fo rmal regu la t ions to ensure that export proceeds in foreign currencies are surrendered within a certain period f rom the date of shipment, but the collection of export proceeds is man- 187 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA datory. Export duties are levied on bananas, cocoa, and nutmeg. Proceeds from Invisibles The collection of the fore ign currency proceeds f rom invisibles is mandatory. Travelers may bring in free ly notes and coin in East Caribbean currency or in any foreign currency. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. The purchase by residents of fore ign cur- rency securities and of real estate s i tua ted abroad for private purposes is not normally permitted. Certificates of title to foreign currency securities held by residents must be lodged with an authorized depository in Grenada, and earnings on these securities must be repatriated. Personal capital transfers, such as inher i tances to nonresidents, require exchange control approval, which normally is granted subject to the payment of estate and succession duties. There are certain allowances for cash gifts (EC$500 a person a yea r) and for em igra t ion purposes. The Ministry of Finance, Trade, Indus t ry, and Planning will also consider t ran s fer applications f rom foreign nationals who have resided in Grenada and are proceeding to take up permanent residence abroad. Direct investment in Grenada by nonresidents may be made with exchange control approval. The remit- tance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds from, such investment is permitted, provided that any liabili- ties related to the investment have been discharged and that the original investment was registered with the M in is t ry of Finance, Trade, Indus t ry, and P lann ing. Nonresidents may acquire in Grenada real estate for pr iva te purposes with funds from foreign currency sources; local cu r rency f in an c ing is not o rd ina r i ly per- mitted. The repa tr ia t ion of the proceeds f rom the real- iza t ion of such investments requires the approval of the M in i s t ry of Finance, Trade, Indus try, and P lann ing. The approval of the M in is try is required for residents to borrow abroad or for nonresidents to borrow in Grenada. Au tho r ized dealers may freely assume short- term l iab i l i ty positions in fore ign currencies for the f in an c ing of approved transfers in respect of both t rade and non t rade transactions. They may also freely accept deposits f rom nonresidents. Any borrow ing abroad by authorized dealers to f inance their domestic operations requ ires the approval of the M in is try. Gold Residents who are private persons are perm i t ted to acquire and hold gold coins for num isma t ic purposes only. Residents other than the mone ta ry authorities, authorized dealers, and indus t r ial users are not permitted to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewe lry or coins for num i sma t ic purposes. Imports of gold are pe rm i t ted for indus t r ial purposes only and are subject to customs duties and charges. Licenses to import gold are issued by the M in is t ry of Finance, Trade, Indus try, and P lann ing. The export of gold is not norma l ly per- mitted. Changes during 1980 April 18. Exchange and trade restrictions app ly ing to Zimbabwe ( fo rme r ly Rhodesia) were l if ted. 188 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guatemala is the Guatemalan Quetzal, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the inter- vention currency, at Q 1 = US$1. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are Q 1.00 and Q 1.01, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, mainly on the basis of their rates in the New York market. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On January 27, 1947 Guatemala notified the Fund that it was prepared to formally accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control The Foreign Exchange Department of the Bank of Guatemala is in charge of adm in is ter ing the Emer- gency Regime for controlling international capital move- ments, including decisions on cases not specifically covered in this regime. However, the Depar tmen t's decisions may be appealed before the Monetary Board. Foreign exchange transactions of the public sector are carried out exclusively through the Bank of Guatemala, while those of the private sector are made through banks authorized by the Monetary Board. Payments in foreign currency must be approved by the Foreign Exchange Department. Banks par t ic ipa t ing in the sys- tem may authorize some foreign payments under powers delegated by the Bank of Guatemala. Exports of goods and services must be registered in the Foreign Exchange Department to guarantee the repatriation of the cor- responding foreign exchange proceeds. Prescription of Currency In practice, most transactions in fore ign exchange are denominated in U.S. dollars. Transactions with other member countries of the Central American Common Market (CACM )2 with respect to trade in invisibles are carried out in national currencies3 through the Central American Clearing House; clearing settlements are made in U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy are required for imports of maps of Guatemala, coffee beans and coffee plants, explosives, lead, poultry, m i lk, eggs, sugar, butter, vegetable oil, wheat flour, basic food grains, cottonseed, and a few other goods. Imports 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian f rancs, Canad ian dollars, deu tsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Mexican pesos, Ne the r- lands guilders, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish k ron e r, and Swiss francs. 2 Costa Rica, El Salvador, Honduras, and N ica ragua. 3 With the exception of Costa Rica, transac t ions w i th which are effected in U.S. dollars through Costa Rican banks. of cocoa and tallow are prohibited from all sources. Imports f rom Honduras are regulated by a bilateral trade agreement. Merchandise imports must be regis- tered with the Foreign Exchange Department or one of the authorized banks ( impor ts f rom the other Central American countries covered by the General Treaty for Economic In tegra t ion of Cen tral Amer ica are exempt f rom this r equ i r em en t ); the Bank of Gua tema la will issue fore ign exchange licenses for impo rt paymen ts only against original bills of lad ing and invoices with statistical in fo rma t ion consistent w i th the impo rt regis- t ra t ion. Except in the case of t ransac t ions below US$5,000 and imports made d irec t ly by authorized banks on behalf of importers w i th letters of credit or trade credits, a 25 per cent gua ran tee deposit, to be made at the time of requesting fore ign exchange, is required in the case of prepayments for imports. Deposits may be made in cash, bank guarantees, or government bonds, and are r e fund ab le when the Bank of Gua tema la has received f rom the impo r ter a docu- ment issued by customs v e r i fy ing the a r r ival of the merchandise. Under the provisions of the Central Am e r i c an Agree- ment on Fiscal Incentives, Guatemala gran ts duty exonerations on imports of raw ma te r ia ls and capital goods to approved i n d u s t r i al firms. Imports o r ig ina t ing outside the Cen t ral Amer ican Common Market are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable impo rt du ty. Exports and Export Proceeds Cer ta in exports are subject to licenses issued by the M in is try of Economy. Exports of a few other items are prohibited, inc lud ing the export of gold (unless the Bank of Guatemala issues a special export license) and silver in any fo rm. Travelers may, however, take out up to Q 25 in silver coin that is legal tender in fore ign coun tr ies. Exporters must ob ta in export licenses issued by the Foreign Exchange Depar tment before the Guate- ma lan customs can authorize shipment of the mer- chandize; the g ran t ing of export licenses is con t ingent on agreement to sell export proceeds to the Bank of Gua tema la w i th in three months of the date of issuance (six mon ths for exports to the other Central American coun t r i e s ). Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are l im i ts on paymen ts for invisibles, as fol- lows: ( 1) purchases of fore ign exchange for study abroad are limited to US$2,000 for mov ing expenses and a mon th ly allowance of US$1,000 for room and board; no limit is applied on remittances for tuition expenses, and additional amounts may be approved in bona fide cases; (2) remittances to dependents abroad are restricted to a monthly limit of US$1,000 but not 189 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA exceeding US$2,500 a family; (3) foreign exchange allowances for nonbusiness travel abroad are limited to US$200 a day (US$100 for children f rom 12 to 18 years of age and US$50 for children under 12 yea rs ), not to exceed US$6,000 a trip (US$3,000 and US$1,500, respectively, for children from 12 to 18 years of age and under 12 years); for foreign exchange alloca- tions in excess of US$1,500 a person, a deposit equiva- lent to 10 per cent of the exchange purchased is required, which is refunded on presentation of evidence showing the number of days spent abroad or, if appropriate, the sale of the unused amount to an authorized bank; no limit is applied on business travel abroad; (4) allow- ances for medical treatment abroad are l im i ted to an initial amount of US$5,000, but additional amounts may be approved as necessary; and (5) remittances abroad by foreign workers are limited to one third or two th irds of their salaries, depending upon whether the immediate family resides in Guatemala or abroad. All in terna t ional air passages are subject to a tax of 10 per cent. Receipts from invisibles accruing to residents must be declared and sold to the Bank of Guatemala or to an authorized private commercial bank. Exempted from this requirement are foreign exchange earnings of for- eign nationals from their investments or other opera- tions abroad while these earnings are maintained outside Guatemala. Capital All existing fore ign assets held abroad by Gua tema lan residents and all obligations to foreigners must be regis- tered with the Bank of Guatemala; such registration is a precondition for authorizing remittances of dividends, profits, interest, and amortization. Any other outward capital transfer is prohibited. All investment by foreign or foreign-controlled companies in the construction of private housing in Guatemala requires the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy. Investment in the petro- leum sector is governed by special legislation. Gold The Bank of Guatemala is obliged to purchase all gold offered to it, either directly or through the banks, and is entitled to require the surrender, directly or through authorized banks, of the gold holdings of any resident. The Bank sells gold to domestic artistic or industrial users, in accordance with directives of the Monetary Board. The export of gold is prohibited except when the Bank of Guatemala issues a special export license. Gold is imported only by the Bank of Guatemala. Changes during 1980 April 23. Monetary Board Resolution No. 9067 was introduced requesting the President of the Republic to put into effect on a temporary basis the Emergency Regime for controlling international capital movements. Thus, with effect from April 28, the Bank of Guatemala 190 began implementation of the regime, the provisions of which are summarized below: (1) Foreign exchange surrender requirements. For- eign exchange receipts accruing to residents of Guate- mala must be sold to the Bank of Guatemala or to one of the authorized banks. (2) Trade transactions, (a) Exporters must obtain export licences issued by the Foreign Exchange Depart- ment before shipment of merchandise could be autho- rized by the Gua tema lan customs; the gran t ing of export licenses would be contingent on agreement to sell export proceeds to the Bank of Guatemala w i th in three months of the date of issuance (six months for exports to the other Central American coun tr ies), (b) Merchandise imports must be registered with the Foreign Exchange Department of the Bank of Guatemala or one of the au thor ized banks (imports f rom the other Central Amer ican countries covered by the General Treaty for Economic Integration of Central America were exempted from this requ i remen t ); the Bank of Guate- mala would issue foreign exchange licenses for import paymen ts only against original bills of lad ing and invoices with statistical in fo rma t ion consistent with the import registration, (c) Except in the case of trans- actions below US$5,000 and imports made directly by authorized banks on behalf of importers with letters of credit or trade credits, a 25 per cent guarantee deposit, to be made at the time of requesting foreign exchange, was required in the case of prepayments for imports; deposits may be made in cash, bank guarantee, or gov- e rnment bonds, and are refundab le when the Bank of Guatemala receives from the importer a document issued by customs ve r i fy ing the arrival of the merchan- dise. (3) Payment for invisibles, (a) Purchases of foreign exchange for study abroad were limited to US$2,000 for moving expenses and a monthly allowance of US$1,000 for room and board; no limit would be applied on remittances for tuition expenses, and addi- tional amounts may be approved in bona fide cases, (b) Remittances to dependents abroad were restricted to a monthly limit of US$1,000 but not exceeding US$2,500 a fam i ly, (c) Foreign exchange allowances for nonbusiness travel abroad were limited to US$200 a day (US$100 for children from 12 to 18 years of age and US$50 for children under 12 years) not to exceed US$6,000 a trip (US$3,000 and US$1,500, respectively, for children from 12 to 18 years of age and under 12 years); no limit was imposed on business travel abroad, (d) Allowances for medical treatment abroad were limited to an initial amount of US$5,000, but additional amounts may be approved as necessary, (e) Remit- tances abroad by foreign workers were limited to one third or two thirds of their salaries, depending upon whether the immediate fam i ly resides in Guatemala or abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA (4) Capital transactions. All existing assets held abroad by Guatemalan residents and all obligations to foreigners were required to be registered with the Bank of Guatemala; such registration became a precondition for authorizing remittances of dividends, profits, interest, and amortization, and any other outward capital trans- fers not separately identified was prohibited. (5) Prescription of currency. In practice, most trans- actions in foreign exchange are denominated in U.S. dollars. Transactions with other member countries of the CACM with respect to trade in invisibles would be carried out in national currencies through the Central American Clearing House; clearing settlements would be made in U.S. dollars. ( 6) Administration of control. The Foreign Exchange Department would administer the Emergency Regime, and would decide on all cases not specifically covered in these regulations; decisions taken by the Department may, however, be appealed before the Monetary Board. August 29. The Monetary Board decided, that with effect f rom September 4, a 10 per cent deposit would be introduced on the purchase of foreign exchange in excess of US$1,500 a person for nonbusiness travel abroad; the deposit would be refunded upon presenta- tion of evidence showing the number of days traveled abroad, and the resale of any excess foreign exchange purchased to an authorized bank. 191 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guinea is the Guinean Syli, which is pegged to the SDR at GS 24.6853 = SDR 1. Exchange rates for 14 currencies1 quoted by the Central Bank of the Republic of Guinea are determined on the basis of the value of the syli in terms of the SDR and the transac- tion value of these currencies in terms of the SDR. Exchange rates for the CFA franc and the Mali f ranc result from the relationship between these currencies and the French franc. Exchange rates for other curren- cies2 are determined in accordance with the appropriate cross rates in international markets. Transactions under the bilateral payments agreement with the U.S.S.R. are settled in U.S. dollars at the rate of GS 20.46 per US$1, and in respect of the bilateral payments agreement with the People's Republic of China, in renminbi at the rate of GS 10.030 per renminbi 1. A single exchange rate for the U.S. dollar applies to transfer operations. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Central Bank, which is under the direct supervision of the Presidency. The Bank has not delegated any of its exchange control powers. All settlements with foreign countries, including payments for imports, require approval by the Central Exchange Bureau of the Central Bank. Foreign trade is a state monopoly. Import and export licenses are issued by IMPORTEX, a state enterprise, within the framework of annual import and export programs. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made in currencies prescribed by, and through accounts established under, the provisions of the agreements.3 Settlements with the Central Bank of West Afr ican States ( for Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West Afr ican Clearing House. Settle- ments with other countries are made in designated "con- vertible" currencies quoted by the Central Bank. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: Non- resident Transferable Accounts in Foreign Currencies 1 Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Sierra Leonean leones, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 Principally the Saudi Arabian riyal. 3 Guinea maintains bilateral payments agreements with People's Republic of China and U.S.S.R. The agreements with Algeria, Cuba, Lebanon, and Viet Nam are regarded as inoperative. 192 and Nonresident Accounts in Sylis. The opening of a nonresident account is subject to the prior approval of the Central Exchange Bureau. Imports and Import Payments All imports, other than those under the Five-Year Plan, require individual licenses, which are issued by IMPORTEX within the framework of the annual import program. Once an import license has been issued, authorization for the corresponding payment is granted by the Central Exchange Bureau. Imports by foreign concession holders require import licenses for statistical purposes only and are not restricted. The annual import program takes into consideration the sources of imports and the availability of convertible currencies and of balances under payments agreements. Certain imports are effected outside the import pro- gram. These are goods for which foreign exchange is derived from sources other than the exchange reserves of Guinea (e.g., imports made by two "mixed-economy companies" —the Friguia Company and the Guinea Baux i te Company —and by foreign embassies), goods for the Five-Year P lan, and imports effected by author- ized traders. All commodities are subject to import surcharges, except when imported by the "mixed-economy com- panies." Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the authorization of the Central Exchange Bureau, irrespective of the coun try to which the payment is to be made, unless financed f rom retained export proceeds (see below). Payments for fre ight and insurance in connection w i th imports are authorized as part of the import license. No exchange is granted for other types of insurance with companies abroad. There is no basic allocation for tourist or business travel; each application is considered ind iv idua l ly. Government officials on official missions are permitted an allowance of GS 600 a day. Pilgrims are granted exchange up to the equivalent of GS 16,351 for each pilgrimage and, in addition, up to GS 22,000 to pay for fares. In cases of serious illness, where a doctor's certificate is submitted, residents are granted foreign exchange for medical care abroad or are per- m i t ted to transfer exchange for the care of relatives receiving medical treatment abroad. Individual author- ization is required for the payment in Guinea of all fares for foreign travel. Payments for fam i ly support may be made up to monthly amounts determined on the merits of the case. For officially recognized study abroad, the allocation is the equivalent of the amount of a government scholar- ship, i.e., GS 2,500 a month. Students beginning their ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution studies abroad are granted an additional foreign exchange allowance of up to GS 4,000. The Foreign Investment Law guarantees that at least 20 per cent of the net annual profits of approved foreign investments may be transferred abroad; the percentage actually per- mitted depends on the agreement concluded between the enterprise concerned and the Government. Expa- triate workers employed by the public sector in Guinea may transfer abroad 40 per cent of their net monthly salaries and those employed by the private sector are permitted to transfer up to 30 per cent of their net monthly salaries. The export of Guinean currency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds IMPORTEX establishes an annual export program for all exports except those of the "mixed-economy com- panies." All exports require individual licenses in order to ( 1) assure the implementation of the export program (par t icu lar ly in respect of commitments under bilateral trade agreemen ts); (2) permit the Treasury to levy cer- tain duties (e.g., special taxes payable in foreign exchange are levied on the volume of bauxite and alu- m ina expor ted); ( 3) prevent shortages of goods needed for domestic consumption; and (4) prevent the export of capital. For the following commodities, special authorization from designated agencies is required in addition to the export license: wild animals (dead or a l ive), edible animals, articles of historic or ethnographic interest, jewelry, articles made of precious metals, and plants and seeds. An export license is granted only when the exporter assumes the obligation to surrender the proceeds immediately af ter they are collected. Other than those effected by the "mixed-economy companies," most exports are made by three state export- ing enterprises, PROMINEX, PROSECO, and FRUTEX, which are subsidiaries of a holding company, SECOMEX. For- eign planters may be granted special transfer privileges related to the quantity of pineapples, bananas, or citrus fruits exported, and private traders may also be per- mitted to retain a part of their export proceeds in order to finance authorized imports. The "mixed-economy companies" are allowed to retain their export proceeds abroad, to pay for their imports and operating requrre- ments, and to service their external debt. All other export proceeds must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds accruing to residents in respect of invisibles must be surrendered. The import of foreign GUINEA banknotes and travelers checks is permitted freely, sub- ject to declaration on entry, but both must, in principle, be surrendered within 24 hours after entry. Nonresident travelers may repurchase and re-export the foreign exchange declared upon entry, a f ter deduction of their local expenditures; this deduction may not be less than the equivalent of US$20 for each day of their stay, unless evidence can be produced to show that actual expenditure was less. The import of Guinean currency is prohibited. Capital All capital transfers require authorization. Outward capital transfers by Guinean nationals are prohibited. The Foreign Investment Law of April 5, 1962 pro- vides guarantees against the nationalization of foreign inves tmen ts in the industrial and m in ing sectors. It also provides for preferential tax and customs treatment applicable to foreign investments and for the transfer of profits, interest, amortization, and l iqu ida t ion proceeds of such investments. Under the Investment Law of February 1, 1980, small and medium-sized enterprises in which at least GS 25 million is invested over a 3-year period may receive tax exemptions for a period of 7 to 10 years. Exemptions for up to 25 years may be granted on long-term investments of particular impor- tance to the economy. The actual conditions under wh ich fo re ign investments may be made are subject to nego t ia t ions w i th in the terms of the Investment Law. Gold Gu inea has issued four commemorative gold coins which are legal tender. Furthermore, residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Guinea for numismatic purposes. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Changes during 1980 February 1. The Foreign Investment Law of April 5, 1962 was replaced by a new one. The law provides financial incentives by lengthening the period dur ing which foreign enterprises need not pay government levies and by distinguishing d ifferent periods in the life of a business such as construction and start of produc- tion. To be eligible under the new code, a minimum investment of GS 25 million is required, compared with GS 15 million under the previous code. 193 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guinea-Bissau is the Guinea-Bissau Peso, which is pegged to the SDR at PG 44 = SDR 1. The authorities maintain the rate for the Guinea-Bissau peso within margins of 2.25 per cent from the fixed relationship between the peso and the SDR, i.e., between maximum and minimum rates of PG 44.99 and PG 43.01, respectively, per SDR 1. Daily buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, and for other foreign currencies are fixed within limits of 1.8 per cent of the SDR rates for these curren- cies. On December 31, 1980 the buying and selling rates of the National Bank of Guinea-Bissau (the central bank) for the U.S. dollar were PG 34.163 and PG 34.835, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Foreign exchange transactions are under the control of the Foreign Exchange Department of the central bank. Foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered to the central bank. Residents must declare to the cen- tral bank all their physical assets and foreign exchange holdings abroad. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all foreign countries must be made in fore ign currency. The central bank may prescribe the currency in which export earnings shall be received. Guinea-Bissau maintains bilateral payments agreements with Algeria and Cape Verde. Settlements with the Central Bank of West Afr ican States ( for Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Mali, Maur i tan ia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to prior licensing. In principle, licenses are issued by the State Commissariat of Com- merce, Industry, and Handicrafts on the basis of a monthly ceiling fixed by the central bank and are valid for the period of the import transaction. Licenses granted have to be presented to the central bank within 15 days. Only importers registered with the State Com- missariat of Commerce, Industry, and Handicrafts may receive licenses. Each license specifies the qu an t i ty and value (c.i.f. and f.o.b.) of the product imported and a separate license is required for each product. Licenses for project-related imports financed by foreign loans or grants are granted automatically. Import licenses are normally provided within 8 to 15 days of a documented request. Imports of essential foodstuffs, such as rice and sugar, are state monopolies. 194 Since November 1977 the system of import licenses has been suspended and only those import operations considered urgent or essential are permitted. There are some arrears of payments for imports. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the prior approval of the Committee of Foreign Exchange Control. For- eign exchange allocations for many payments for invisi- bles, inc lud ing those for tourism and for the purchase of stocks, bonds, real estate, and profit remittances, have been temporarily suspended. Transfers of pension payments are authorized in accordance with specific criteria. Although no foreign exchange may be pur- chased for tourism, airplane tickets can be bought using domestic currency. Moreover, purchases of Cape Verde escudos for purposes of tourism in that country are permitted up to the equivalent of PG 10,000 a person. A i r l ine companies may transfer in foreign exchange the d ifference between their payments and receipts in Guinea-Bissau pesos. These transfers are approved on an ad hoc basis. Foreign exchange allowances for business travel are limited to PG 15,000 a trip. For study abroad foreign exchange is granted up to PG 6,000 in the first month and PG 3,500 in each of the following months (PG 5,000 for students enrolled in middle-level and higher-level courses). Allowances for travel for health reasons are permitted up to PG 20,000. Remittances to close relatives (parents and children) living abroad are permitted up to PG 2,500 a month. Foreign trav- elers may take out any remaining foreign currency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require an export license. Only exporters registered with the State Commissariat of Commerce, Industry, and Hand icraf ts may obtain export licenses, which are granted automatically in most cases. Exports of groundnu ts are reserved for the Government and are effected by two state companies, the People's Stores and SOCOMI. Other products exported only by the Govern- ment include palm kernels, sawn wood and logs, shrimp, fish, beer, nonalcoholic beverages, groundnut oil, and parquet f loor ing. All exports are subject to a general fee of 1 per cent. Most exports are also subject to export taxes, which range from 3 per cent for firewood to 15 per cent for crocodile hides, with most products in the 9-10 per cent range. All export proceeds must be surrendered to the central bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Travelers may br ing in any amount of foreign cur- rency. Foreign airline companies must cover the excess ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU of their expenditures over revenues in Guinea-Bissau pesos by transfers from abroad or by the sale of their foreign exchange receipts for Guinea-Bissau pesos. All proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered to the central bank. Capital Foreign investment operations are guided by the Investment Code introduced in 1980. Under this Code, exchange control is exercised over capital receipts and payments. Capital transfers associated with emigration are authorized by the "transitory norms" within a monthly limit of PG 50,000 and up to 20 per cent of total taxable income earned during no more than ten years. At present, however, such transfers are sus- pended. Gold Exports and imports of gold are prohibited, except when authorized by the Chief State Commissar and the State Commissar for Finance. Changes during 1980 August 15. A new Investment Code came into effect. 195 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guyana is the Guyana Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at G$2.55 = US$1. On December 31, 1980 the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were G$2.5484 and G$2.5612, respectively, per US$1. Buy- ing and selling rates for certain other currencies 1 are also officially quoted, w i th daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. The Bank of Guyana (the central bank) charges commissions at d ifferent rates on the purchase and sale of the officially quoted currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Guyana formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from December 27, 1966. Administration of Control Exchange control au thor i ty is vested in the Minister of Finance who has entrusted its administration to the Bank of Guyana. Au thor i ty for approv ing current pay- ments up to specified amounts is delegated to the banks authorized for this purpose; all other import payments and certain payments in respect of current invisibles of a personal nature require the approval of the Bank of Guyana. The Ministry of Trade is responsible for issu- ing import and export licenses, but import licenses require the endorsement of the Bank of Guyana. Prescription of Currency Exchange control applies to all countries, and all cur- rencies other than the Guyana dollar are considered foreign currencies. Authorized payments, including pay- ments for imports, by residents of Guyana to residents of countries outside Guyana may be made in any fore ign currency or in Guyana dollars to the credit of an External Account in Guyana. Receipts from countries outside Guyana may be obtained in any fo re ign currency (in any listed specified currency 2 for export proceeds) or in Guyana dollars from an External Account. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of accounts for persons who are not residents of Guyana: External Accounts and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts may be opened, with exchange control approval, for persons resident in any coun try outside Guyana. They may be credited freely with all 1 Barbados dollars, Canadian dollars, East Caribbean dollars, Jamaica dollars, pounds sterling, and Trinidad and Tobago dollars. 2 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 196 authorized payments by residents of Guyana to non- residents and with t rans fe rs f rom other External Accounts; other credits requ ire approval. They may be debited freely for paymen ts for any purpose to residents of any coun try, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for w i thd rawa ls by the account holder wh i le he is in Guyana; other deb i ts requ ire approval. Blocked Accounts may, in principle, be credited with f u n ds that are not placed at the free disposal of non- residents (e.g., certain capital proceeds); these accounts may be debited for certain authorized paymen ts, includ- ing the purchase of approved securities. Since mid-1978 Blocked Accoun ts have been used to hold domestic cur- rency deposits equ iva lent in va lue to pend ing applica- tions for foreign exchange. Such deposits carry a market-related interest rate but no exchange rate guaran tee. Imports and Import Payments All impor ts f rom South A f r i ca are prohibited. Imports of certain commodities are prohibited f rom all sources; for some goods, however, the p roh ib i t ion is not enforced, wh i le others are sub ject to quotas, if they qu a l i fy for du ty - f ree access (under the ru les of origin app l icab le to impor ts from countries of the Caribbean Common M a rk e t —CAR ICOM ) .S All permissible imports (except parcel post items and t r ade samples up to a specified va lue), irrespective of o r ig in, are sub ject to i n d i v i d u al l icens ing. The g ran t ing of ind iv idual licenses and the conditions attached thereto depend on current policy; some goods are subject to quo ta wh i le others are licensed freely. Impo rt licenses for commodities orig- i n a t i ng in A lban ia, Bu lga r ia, the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, the Ge rman Democratic Repub- lic, Hunga ry, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Poland, Roman ia, and the U.S.S.R. are generally gran ted f ree ly, but such impor ts mu st be effected through public sector corporations. Pub l ic sector cor- porations have a monopoly over the impo rt of specified commodities f r om all sources. Certain goods, pr imar i ly paper products, such as books and new sp r in t, may be impor ted only through the Guyana Na t ional Trading Corporation, while Pharmaceu t ica ls, other d rug s, and su rg ical in s t rum en ts may be impor ted on ly th rough the Guy ana Pharmaceutical Corporation. Cer ta in food- s tu f fs may be impor ted only by the Guy ana Marketing Corpora t ion, e.g., those that f a ll und er the ag r icu l tu ral ma rke t ing protocol of the CAR IFTA /CAR ICOM Agree- men t. Paymen ts for au thor ized impo r ts are generally per- m i t t ed upon app l i c a t ion and subm iss ion of documen ta ry 3 The CAR ICOM coun tr ies are A n t i g u a, Barbados, Belize, Dom in ica, G r e n a d a, G u y a n a, Jama ica, Mon t se r ra t, S t. K i t t s -N ev i s -Angu i l l a, S t. Lucia, St. Vincent and Grenadines, and Tr in idad and Tobago. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution evidence, subject to the availability of foreign exchange. There has been some accumulation of commercial arrears. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries require approval, which, except for tourist travel, is usua l ly given freely, provided that no illegal capital transfer is involved, but there has been some accumulation of arrears. The basic annual exchange allocation for tour- ist travel is G$200 a person and is not cumulative. Standard allocations are applied to certain payments of a personal na tu re on an annual basis, e.g., for education at universities and comparable ins t i tu t ions in Nor th America, the equivalent of US$6,000, and for fam i ly maintenance, G$4,800 for each fam i ly. Resident and nonresident travelers are subject on departure to an exit tax of G$10 a person. Persons traveling abroad may take with them Guyana currency notes not exceeding G$40; these notes do not form part of any allotment of exchange for travel. In addition, foreign currency notes up to the value of G$50 may be taken out w i thout permission as part of any travel exchange allowance; any amount in excess of th is is subject to approval by the Bank of Guyana. Non- resident travelers may, w i th in one mon th of their last entry, freely take out any foreign currency notes declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Afr ica are prohibited. Rice may be exported only by the Guyana Rice Board, sugar only by the Guyana Sugar Corporation, and bauxite and alumina only by the Guyana M in ing Enterprise L im i ted. Certain other exports also are channeled through official agencies. Most exports do not require export licenses, but transactions are supervised by the Bank of Guyana and the Customs and Excise Department to ensu re that the exchange proceeds are repatriated and, if ob ta ined in listed specified currencies (see footnote 2), surren- dered. Exchange control forms have to be completed for all exports exceeding G$200 in value. Proceeds from Invisibles Specified currencies (see footnote 2) received on account of invisibles must be sold to an authorized bank, but other currencies may be retained by the recipi- ent. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in foreign banknotes; domestic banknotes up to a value of G$40 may be brought in by re turn ing travelers only. Capital Private investment, both fore ign and domestic, is gov- erned by the Private Investment Code of 1979. Foreign investors must apply to the Bank of Guyana for GUYANA "approved status" for new inves tmen ts at the time of investment in order to be able to repa t r ia te capital. Such approval is norma l ly given for direct investments in new projects that would benefit the balance of payments or the economy of G u y a n a; "approved status" assures that profits may be remitted, and th at upon l iqu ida t ion of the inves tmen t, the proceeds, inc lud ing any capital incre- ments a f t er payment of all taxes, may be repa tr ia ted in f u ll in the currency of the or ig inal inves tmen t. For the time being, however, foreign-based companies (o ther than those based in the CARICOM a r e a) and the ir subsidi- aries are prohibited f rom borrow ing in Guyana. The export of cap i tal by residents is not normally pe rm i t ted. Listed specified currenc ies (see footnote 2) ob ta ined by residents th rough cap i tal transac t ions must be surrendered to an au thor ized bank, but other cur- rencies may be re ta ined by the recipient. Em ig ran ts of Guyanese na t iona l i ty may not t r an s f er abroad any part of the ir cap i tal assets other than a se t t l ing - in allowance of G$100 for each member of a f am i ly u n i t; em ig ran ts of fore ign na t iona l i ty may export all declared capital assets, an amount of G$24,000 a f am i ly un it at the t ime of em i g r a t i on and G$17,300 in each successive calendar year. Borrowing from nonresidents requires exchange con- trol approva l. However, publicly owned enterprises are encouraged to borrow abroad for the f in an c ing of specific projects and in some instances for wo rk ing capital pu r- poses. Since mid-1979 any borrow ing by a public sector corpora t ion is subject to pr ior approval by the Govern- ment Debt Committee. Gold Residents may hold and acqu ire gold co ins in Guyana for num i sma t ic purposes, and also jewe lry. With these exceptions, residents other than the mone tary authori- ties, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and au thor- ized indu s t r i al users are not allow to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad, w i thout special permission. Ne i ther the Bank of Guy ana nor any other off ic ial ins t i tu t ion purchases gold to supp ly domestic indu s t ry. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm by or on beha lf of the mone ta ry au tho r i t ies, au tho r ized deal- ers, producers of gold and indus tr ial users, require licenses issued by the M in is try of Trade. Residents traveling abroad are allowed to take out with them jewelry up to a value of C$600, G$400, and G$200, for women, men, and children under 12 years of age, respectively. Changes during 1980 April 18. Exchange and trade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe ( fo rme r ly Rhodesia) were l i f ted. 197 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Haiti is the Haitian Gourde, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at G5 = US$1. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are G 5 per US$1. The U.S. dollar is legal tender and circulates freely in Haiti. Purchases or sales of foreign exchange are subject to a local tax of 0.20 per cent. Commercial banks quote buying and selling rates for certain other currencies with daily quotations based on the buying ajid selling rates of the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. On December 22, 1953, Haiti notified the Fund that it formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreemen t. Administration of Control There is no exchange control and there are no obli- gations prescribing the method or currency for pay- ments to or from nonresidents. The administration of the foreign exchange system is under the control of the Bank of the Republic of Haiti (the central bank) and exchange transactions are implemented by that Bank and certain commercial banks. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for certain foods tu f fs, certain footwear, cotton textiles, paints, and iron rods. The importation of used automobiles is subject to the requirement that the vehicle is at most five years old and has been owned by the importer for a minimum of two years. Imports from member countries of the Council for Mu tual Economic Assistance require prior authorization by the Ministry of Commerce and Indus- try. The Ministry's prior authorization is also required for imports from any source of specified types of foot- wear and of a few other items that are controlled for other than balance of payments reasons.1 The domestic marketing of certain imports is controlled by the State Tobacco Monopoly. Certain imports are subject to surcharges of 4, 5, or 6 per cent of the c.i.f. value, in addition to the applicable import du ty; goods subject to the 4 or 6 per cent tax are also subject to an additional tax of 2 per cent. Importers pay an "economic libera- tion tax" on the amount of the customs invoice; when this amount exceeds G 10,000, the tax is 1 per cent. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of coffee require prior authorization from the Haitian Coffee Institute. All other exports require authorization from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Export authorization is usually granted freely 1 A decree signed on February 26, 1981 introduced a two-year pro- hibition on imports of 17 categories of commodities, consisting ma in ly of light consumer goods; a Presidential Order made on the same date brought a wide range of items under import licensing. 198 but may be withheld when domestic supplies are low. Exports of essential oils are regulated by the Marketing Office for Essential Oils. Export proceeds are not sub- ject to exchange control. Exporters must pay an "eco- nomic liberation tax" levied on the amount of the customs invoice; when this amount exceeds G 10,000, the tax is 1 per cent. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. No exchange control requirements are applied to proceeds from invisibles. Residents traveling abroad must pay a tax of G 20 on tickets and must buy a G 25,000 travel insurance policy by paying a premium of G 52; diplo- mats and staff members of international organizations are exempt. Capital Capital transfers abroad are not normally permitted but imports may be made freely. Foreign investment in Haiti is regulated by a law of August 16, 1960 and a decree of March 13, 1963 and requires prior govern- ment approval. Permission is not normally granted to nonresidents for investments in hand icraft industries. Under a decree of April 6, 1973, private banks operat- ing in Haiti are required to keep in the form of domestic assets a m in imum of 85 per cent of their liabilities to local customers. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Haiti for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. The Bank of the Republic of Haiti has the exclusive right to purchase gold domestically and to export gold in the form of coin, mineral dust, or bars. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry carried as personal effects by travelers may be made only by the Bank of the Republic of Haiti; exports require in addition prior authorization by the M in is try of Finance, while imports for industrial use require prior authori- zation by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and the Ministry of Finance, as well as an endorsement by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry before cus- toms clearance. However, commercial imports of arti- cles containing a limited amount of gold, such as gold watches, are freely permitted and do not require an import license or other authorization. Several gold coins have been issued, which are legal tender but do not circulate. Changes during 1980 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Honduras is the Honduran Lempira, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at L 2 = US$1. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are L 2.00 and L 2.02, respec- tively, per US$1. Banknotes in Costa Rican colones, Guatemalan quetzales, Nicaraguan cordobas, and Sal- vadoran colones are purchased at parity rates with a 1 per cent commission and are sold at parity rates. The buying and selling rates for other currencies that are of significance to the foreign trade of Honduras are fixed daily on the basis of the buying and selling rates of the currency concerned against the U.S. dollar in foreign markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On August 19, 1950, Honduras forma l ly notified the Fund that it had assumed the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, beginning on July 1, 1950. Prescription of Currency There .are no obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from nonresidents. Pay- ments among member countries of the Central Ameri- can Common Market (CACM )l in respect of trade and invisibles must be settled in the domestic currency of the payer through the Central American Clearing House. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for a few items. Pay- ments and transfers abroad may be made freely; how- ever, for statistical purposes, buyers of foreign exchange are required to file an application stating how the exchange will be used. Certain essential imports (List 1) require prior approval from the Central Bank of Hon- duras when they are to be made on credit terms. Certain nonessential imports (List 2) also are subject to Central Bank approval; the use of external credit to pay for these goods is prohibited. Imports of goods not appear- ing on either list do not require Central Bank approval, provided that payment is on sight terms. The import of corn, rice, sorghum, beans, and potatoes is the monopoly of the Honduran Institute of Agricultural Marketing. Under the provisions of the Central American Agree- ment on Fiscal Incentives, Honduras grants duty exon- erations on imports of raw materials and capital goods to approved industrial firms. Most imports from countries outside the CACM are subject to customs duty. Imports from the CACM are subject to customs duties ranging from zero to 25 per cent, under bilateral trade agreement. Some goods are 1 Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Nicaragua. subject to a customs surtax of 12 per cent of the duty and to a consular charge of 8 per cent of the f.o.b. va lue. There is a duty-free zone in Puerto Cortes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports other than gold and sugar do not require licenses but must be registered. Exports of coffee are supervised by the Honduran Coffee Institute, and exports of bananas by the Honduran Banana Corporation. The export of corn, rice, beans, and potatoes is controlled by the Honduran Institute of Agr icu l tural Marketing, and lumber exports are channeled through the Hon- du ran Forest Development Corporation (COHDEFOR). The proceeds of exports must be repatriated to Hon- duras; those wishing to negotiate their foreign exchange in Honduras may do so only with the Central Bank or through the bank ing system for account of the Central Bank. All foreign exchange proceeds from exports received by exporters who avail themselves of domestic credit or special guarantee endorsements granted by domestic banks for the financing of their operations are subject to surrender requirement. There is an export tax on cattle, meat, and sugar and a general export duty of 1 per cent of the f.o.b. value of all other export items except bananas, coffee, cattle, meat, sugar, and minerals. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles may be retained freely. All purchases of foreign exchange in excess of US$5,000 require prior approval of the Central Bank. Within this limit, persons traveling abroad may purchase foreign currency notes and coin in an amount not exceeding US$100 a person. There are no restrictions on the import of foreign banknotes by travelers. Capital Capital payments are not subject to exchange control. However, the authorization of the Minister of Finance is required for all activities implying the receipt of resources and their transfer abroad for purposes of investment in mu tual funds, housing developments, real estate, or similar activities. Foreign mutual funds and similar financial institutions require permission to collect funds in Honduras for deposit or investment abroad. The approval of the Ministry of Finance, the Council of Economic Planning, and the Central Bank is required for the public sector to contract any foreign indebted- ness, whether for import financing or for other purposes. The contracting of external debt by the pr iva te sector requires approval by the Central Bank. Sight and term deposits in foreign currency at the banks are subject to a reserve requirement of 40 per cent, and certificates of deposit of US$25,000 and above are subject to a reserve requirement of 35 per cent; up to 25 percentage points 199 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS of the latter requirement could be made in the fo rm of government bonds. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Hon- duras for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and autho- rized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, industrial users, and producers of gold. All locally produced gold is exported in the form of ore for refining. Commercial imports and exports of jewelry and other articles containing gold require licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy; for most articles, these are granted freely. Exports of gold are subject to a tax of 5 per cent. Changes during 1980 November 27. In order to control capital outflows occasioned by the political situation in the Central American region and the imposition of exchange con- trols in certain Central American countries, all pur- chases of foreign exchange in excess of the equivalent of US$5,000, excluding those for payment of merchan- dise imports, were made subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank. Within the limit of US$5,000, persons traveling abroad might purchase foreign cur- rency notes and coin in an amount not exceeding US$100 a person a year. November 27. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports by exporters who avail themselves of domestic credit or special guarantee endorsements granted by domestic banks for the financing of their operations were made subject to surrender requirement. 200 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG1 (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Hong Kong is the Hong Kong Dollar. The authorities do not ma in ta in margins in respect of exchange transactions in Hong Kong, and exchange rates for the Hong Kong dollar are determined largely on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market. The authorities intervene only when necessary in order to smooth out exceptional fluctuations in exchange rates so as to ma in ta in orderly conditions in the exchange market. On December 31, 1980 the buying and selling rates in the interbank foreign exchange market for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were HK$5.1380 and HK$5.1400, respec- tively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control There is no exchange control. Import and export licensing is carried out mainly by the Director of Trade Industry and Customs. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Settlements between residents of Hong Kong and nonresidents may be made and received freely in Hong Kong dollars or any other currency. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between resident and non- resident accounts. Imports and Import Payments Except for certain dutiable commodities and items that are controlled for health, safety, or security reasons, imports are free from licensing control. With a few exceptions a trade declaration must be lodged with the Department of Trade Industry and Customs within 14 days of importation in respect of each consignment of goods imported to or exported f rom Hong Kong. The import of rice is subject to a quota system operated by 1Hong Kong is a nonmetropolitan te r r i to ry in respect of which the United Kingdom has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agreement. that Department. Payments for permitted imports may be made freely, at any time, and in any currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required only to enable Hong Kong to fu lf i ll its international obligations and for health, safety, or security reasons. Textiles are also subject to licensing, partly because of a number of bilateral arrangements with specified countries under which the export of certain textiles is res tr ic ted. Export proceeds may be collected at any t ime and in any cur- rency. They need not be repatriated or surrendered. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for or receipts from invisibles. Resident and nonresident travelers may freely bring in and take out any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes, travelers checks, and other means of paymen t. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents. Gold There is a free market for gold in which dealings by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted. Imports and exports of gold in any form (including finished jewelry) are freely permitted and do not require licenses. Residents may hold gold in any form in Hong Kong or abroad. A gold coin of HK$ 1,000 is legal tender but does not circulate. Changes during 1980 January 15. Exchange and trade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe (formerly Rhodes ia) were lifted. June 4. In line with action taken by the United Kingdom and other member states of the EC, Hong Kong imposed economic sanctions on certain exports to Iran. (The economic sanctions were lifted on Janu- ary 22, 1981.) 201 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Iceland is the Icelandic Krona.1 There is no organized foreign exchange market in Iceland and official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the principal trading and reserve currency, are quoted by the Central Bank of Iceland. These rates are adjusted from time to time; on December 31, 1980 the buying and selling rates were IKr 623.0 and IKr 624.8, respec- tively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies2 are based on the official rates for the U.S. dollar and the dollar rates for the currencies concerned in international markets. The authorized banks are permitted to carry out exchange transactions among themselves and to engage in arbitrage in foreign markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange except for a temporary tax of 10 per cent levied on foreign exchange sold to residents for tourist travel, which has been extended to December 31, 1981. Administration of Control The Ministry of Commerce, a f ter consulting with the Central Bank, has the ultimate responsibility for matters concerning import and export regulations and payments for invisibles. The Central Bank is responsible for the regulation of foreign exchange transactions and of exchange control, including capital controls; it is also responsible for ensuring that all foreign exchange due to residents is surrendered to authorized banks and that such exchange is disposed of as authorized. Two com- mercial banks, the National Bank of Iceland and the Fisheries Bank, are the only authorized banks. The authorized banks issue import and exchange licenses for the commodities subject to import control in coopera- tion with the Ministry of Commerce and the Central Bank. Export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency As a general rule, exchange receipts must be obtained in convertible currencies. In practice, settlements with countries in the Dollar Area and with many other countries are made in U.S. dollars; with countries of the former Sterling Area and some other countries, in sterling; and with certain other countries, in their respective currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of nonresident krona accounts: Foreign Accounts and Special Accounts. The 1 On Janua ry 1, 1981 a new monetary unit, also called the krona, was established, equivalent to 100 old k ronu r. Banknotes and coins in old k ronur will con t inue to be legal tender un t il June 30, 1981. 2 Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish ma rkkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 202 opening of nonresident accounts requires individual approval. Foreign Accounts may be credited with the proceeds f rom the sale of foreign currency to authorized banks and w i th authorized payments due to nonresidents from residents. Balances on Foreign Accounts may be used freely for payments to residents and may without a license be converted into the currency of the country of residence of the account holder. These accounts are, in practice, seldom used, payments for in te rna t ional trans- actions generally being made in U.S. dollars, sterling, or other convertible currencies.3 Special Accounts in kronur or fore ign currency may be opened by agreement with an authorized bank. The most important of these accounts are those of foreign banks and foreign insurance companies. They may be credited freely, up to certain limits, with approved paymen ts from residents. Imports and Import Payments All goods not included in the restricted list may be imported freely without an import license f rom any coun try; some 90 per cent of total imports are liberal- ized. Some 30 commodities or groups of commodities are included in the restricted list and may be subject to quan t i ta t ive restriction. The principal items involved are petroleum products; the only other industrial goods on the list are brooms and brushes. Certain imports, inc lud ing fertilizers, tobacco, matches, and alcoholic beverages, are admitted only under state trading arrange- ments. Fresh vegetables and potatoes are imported under the auspices of the Agr icu l tural Production Board. None of these commodities, however, is subject to quan t i ta t ive restriction. For impor ts from all sources, when requiring a license, a fee of 1 per cent is charged as a license fee on the krona amount of the import license when the license is issued; for petroleum products, however, this fee is 0.1 per cent. The commercial banks require certain deposits for purposes of security in connection with certain import transactions. Importers of goods not requiring licenses are not required to obtain a foreign exchange permit prior to shipment from abroad, provided that the purchase is payable at sight. However, the goods will not be cleared by the customs unless payment has already been made, or the importer has arranged w i th an authorized bank for paymen t. An importer may either open a letter of credit or obtain a payment certificate which enables him at any time to buy foreign exchange to pay for the 3 Residents who hold fo re ign currency which they are not required to sell to authorized dealers may open Foreign Accounts w i th Icelandic banks. Such accounts, denominated in Danish kroner, deutsche mark, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars, may be credited with authorized receipts in fore ign currencies and may be debited for au tho r ized pay- ments in foreign currencies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution goods. For imports that require an individual license, foreign exchange is granted in accordance with the terms stipulated in the license. Importers may freely accept suppliers' credit for up to 3 months f rom the date of arrival at an Icelandic port for listed goods corresponding to some 55 per cent of 1970 imports; the goods not listed are mainly building materials and nonessential goods (including motor vehicles for personal u se ). Credit in excess of 3 months and not exceeding 12 months requires permission by a joint committee of the Ministry of Commerce, the Central Bank, and the authorized banks. Approval is given only in exceptional circumstances, e.g., in con- nection with the import of industrial raw materials for which the production process is lengthy. Foreign credit in excess of 12 mon ths is subject to government authori- zation issued by the Ministry of Commerce. Imports of motor vehicles and motorcycles are sub- ject to an import surcharge of 50 per cent ad valorem; the surcharge is 25 per cent for a limited number of taxicabs. Buses, heavy trucks, ambulances, tractors, and public service vehicles are exempt. Certain non- essential goods, whether imported or of domestic origin, are subject to a temporary excise tax of 24 per cent and 30 per cent ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles No exchange license is required for government pay- ments (such as interest and amortization on external loans, expenses of the foreign service, payments to international organizations, payments for postal, tele- graphic, and telephone services), for bank ing commis- sions, or for bank charges on foreign exchange transactions. Most other outgoing payments are licensed freely on the basis of bona fide documents. There is an exchange license fee of 1 per cent for all payments for invisibles. The basic allocation for tourist travel is the equivalent of US$1,000 a person for each trip abroad (US$500 for each ch i ld) .4 A temporary exchange tax of 10 per cent is levied on exchange provided for tourist travel. Appli- cations for exchange for chartering of ships, major repair of ships, repair of means of transport other than ships and a ircraf t, transactions and transfers in connec- tion with direct insurance, and insurance operations abroad are considered on their merits. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out IKr 30,000 in Icelandic banknotes and coin, in denomi- nations not exceeding IKr 1,000. Nonresident travelers may re-export any foreign exchange they brought in at the time of entry.5 4 On February 4, 1981 the basic exchange allocation for tourist travel was increased to the equivalent of US$1,200 a person a trip (US$600 a child). 5 From Janua ry 1, 1981 resident and nonresident travelers may bring in Icelandic banknotes and coin up to IKr 500 (in new k r o n u r) or IKr 50,000 (in old k r o n u r ), in denominations not exceeding IKr 50 (new) or IKr 1,000 (o ld). ICELAND Exports and Export Proceeds All commercial exports require licenses. The shipping documents must be lodged with an authorized bank. Exchange receipts accruing from exports must be sur- rendered without undue delay. All fish products are subject to export levies, which are returned to the fishing industry through special funds. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered without undue delay. The owners of Icelandic ships and aircraft are, with the approval of the authorized banks, permitted to retain their foreign exchange receipts f rom freight, passenger tickets, or other charges, and to use them for operating purposes and for purchases of necessities. Icelandic insurance companies which reinsure abroad are permitted to retain foreign exchange earned f rom premiums and indemnities and to use it to pay reinsurance premiums, claims, and other regular expenditures in the coun try where the foreign exchange was earned. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in IKr 30,000 in Icelandic banknotes and coin, in denomi- nations not exceeding IKr 1,000. There are no limita- tions on the import of foreign banknotes and coin. Capital All investments by nonresidents in Iceland are sub- ject to individual approval. The participation by nonresidents in Iceland's jo int stock companies may not exceed 49 per cent, and is not allowed in the fishing industry. Nonresident-owned foreign capital entering in the form of foreign exchange must be surrendered. Nonresidents may be authorized to open nonresident accounts for these funds, in which case their retransfer abroad is permitted. Residents are obliged to surrender foreign exchange accruing to them on account of capital transactions and payments. Without the approval of the Government, residents may not obtain loans abroad, including loans for financing imports, for periods exceeding one year. Applications for the contracting of financial credits and loans abroad for a period of less than one year are considered on their merits and approved only in excep- tional circumstances. Transfers of capital abroad by residents require approval, which is granted only in exceptional cases. However, direct investment abroad for the purpose of assisting the marketing of Icelandic products is normally permitted. Portfolio investment abroad by residents is prohibited. Outward t ran s fe rs on inheritances, legacies, and emigrants' assets are considered on their merits. Nonresidents may acquire Icelandic securities and other assets with imported fund s; the t rans fer abroad of the proceeds f rom their sale requires authorization. Securities held in Iceland by nonresidents must be registered, and all transactions concerning them are subject to licensing. The import and export of securities by residents require Central Bank approval. 203 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND Gold A commemorative gold coin w i th a face va lue of IKr 10,000 is legal tender but does not circulate. Residents may hold and acquire gold in Iceland, sub- ject to certain legal requirements. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not nor- ma l ly granted, except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. However, citizens re tu rn ing to Iceland a f ter residing abroad may free ly bring in any gold in their possession. Changes during 1980 January 1. The final phase of the ta r i ff reduction took effect according to Iceland's agreements w i th the EC and EFTA. January 3. The basic exchange allocation for tourist travel was increased to IKr 310,000. March 31. The krona was depreciated by 3 per cent against the U.S. dollar. April 1. The basic exchange allocation for tourist travel was increased to US$1,000 or the equivalent in other currencies; simultaneously, the re la ted exchange license fee was reduced from 1.75 per cent to 1 per cent. April 1. Imports of confec t ionery items and choco- lates were liberalized. September 5. A tempo ra ry import levy was imposed on biscuits (32 per cent of c .i .f. v a l u e) and sugar confec t ionery and chocolates (40 per cent of c . i . f. v a l u e ). December 23. The temporary tax of 10 per cent on tou r ist t ravel was extended un t il December 31, 1981. December 31. The temporary import deposit scheme, introduced on J a n u a ry 8, 1979 on imports of f u r n i t u re and cer ta in other wood manu fac tu re s, expired as scheduled. 204 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of India is the Ind ian Rupee. Exchange rates are computed f rom the value of the rupee, which is determined on the basis of the relationship of the rupee to a weighted basket of currencies of India's major trad ing partners. India ma in ta ins the relationship of the rupee to the basket of currencies w i th in margins of 5 per cent of the value adopted as the basis. Exchange rates of the rupee in terms of the pound sterling, the intervention currency, are accordingly fixed periodically by the Reserve Bank; at the end of December 1980 they were Rs 18.80 buy ing and Rs 18.90 selling, per £ stg. 1. Exchange rates for spot and fo rwa rd purchases of deutsche mark, Japanese yen, and U.S. dollars are based on the latest available rates and trends in inter- national markets and are announced by the Reserve Bank every day; such rates may be changed at any time, if the need arises. Exchange rates for other cur- rencies are derived f rom the cross rate of the pound sterling with the Ind ian rupee. The Reserve Bank stands ready to purchase currencies of certain member coun- tries1 of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU ), deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars, spot and fo rwa rd, and to sell spot ACU currencies and pounds sterling. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized dealers are permitted to m a in t a in balances and positions in "permitted currencies." Perm i t ted cur- rencies are divided into two groups, Group A cons is t ing of 20 listed currencies2 and Group B consisting of any other foreign currency that is convertible in to any of the permitted currencies in fa i r ly active marke ts. Au tho r- ized dealers are permitted to buy and sell spot any permitted currency f rom and to banks in any currency outside the Bilateral Group.3 Au thor ized dealers are also permitted to buy and sell fo rwa rd any permitted currency against any other permitted currency. Forward purchase or sale of foreign currencies against rupees with fore ign banks is prohibited. On December 30, 1980 market rates for telegraphic t ran s fe rs on New York were US$12.61 buy ing (c lean) and US$12.44 selling, per Rs 100, and the Reserve Bank's rates were US$12.6100 buy ing spot and US$12.6850, US$12.7275, US$12.7725, US$12.7925, US$12.8100, and US$12.8300 buy ing fo r- wa rd ( f or 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 mon ths' de l ivery, respec- t iv e ly ), p e rRs 100. The Reserve Bank provides f o rw a rd cover to au tho r- ized dealers by purchases of s ter l ing for delivery on any 1 Bang lade sh, B u rm a, I ran, Pak i s tan, and Sri L ank a. 2 Au s t r a l i an do l lars, Au s t r i an schillings, B a h r a in d ina r s, Belgian f r an c s, Canad ian dollars, Danish k ron e r, deu tsche m a r k, F rench f rancs, Hong Kong dollars, I ta l ian l ire, Japanese yen, K uw a i ti d ina r s, Malay- sian r ingg i t, N e th e r l ands gu i lde r s, No rw eg i an k r o n e r, pounds s ter l ing, Singapore do l lars, Swedish k ron e r, Swiss f r a n c s, and U.S. dollars. 3 Czechoslovakia, G e rm an Democra t ic Republic, Po land, Roman ia, and U.S.S.R. day du r ing the first mon th, second mon th, etc., up to 9 mon ths' delivery in i t i a l ly ( and ex tendab le up to 12 m o n t h s ), for purchases of U.S. dollars up to 12 mon ths, and of deu tsche m a rk and Japanese yen for de l ivery on any day d u r i ng the first mon th, second mon th, and so on, up to the sixth mon th. In add i t ion, the Export Credit and Guaran tee Co rpo ra t ion Ltd. (ECGC) pro- vides pro tec t ion aga inst exchange f luc tua t ion f rom the da te of bid up to 15 years a f t er the award of con t rac t; exchange cover is offered in French f r a n c s, deu tsche m a rk, Japanese yen, pounds s te r l ing, Swiss f r an c s, and U.S. do l la rs. The Reserve Bank also purchases the cu r renc ies of the ACU member coun t r ies listed in foo tno te 1 f r om au thor ized dealers for de l ive ry of up to six mon ths on a mon th ly option basis. Administration of Control Exchange con trol is adm in i s te red by the Reserve Bank in acco rdance w i th the gene ral po l icy la id down by the Gove rnmen t, in con su l ta t ion w i th the B a n k. Much of the rou t ine work of exchange con trol is delegated to ce r ta in comme rc ial banks, wh ich act as au tho r ized dealers. A ll proposals for d irect inves tmen ts in Ind ia, w i th or w i thout e q u i ty p a r t i c ip a t ion, are reviewed by the Foreign Inv e s tm ent Board. Under the Foreign Exchange R egu l a t ion Act, the general or specific app roval of the Reserve Bank is necessary for the con t inuance of comme rc ia l, i n d u s t r i a l, and t r a d i ng ac t iv i- ties in Ind ia of compan ies incorporated abroad, or w i th more th an 40 per cent non res ident in te re s t, or for the e s t ab l i shm ent by them in Ind ia of any b ranch, office, or o ther place of bus iness for c a r r y i ng out any such ac t iv i ty. Im p o rt and export licenses are issued by the Chief Con t ro l ler of Impo r ts and Exports. Prescription of Currency For p resc r ip t ion of cu r rency purposes, coun t r i es are d iv ided in to two g roup s: the B i la te ral G roup of coun- tr ies 3 and the Ex te rnal G roup of coun t r i es (a ll other c o u n t r i e s ). Paymen ts to and f rom the B i l a t e r al G roup of coun t r i es mu st be settled in Ind i an rupees th rough the app rop r ia te c lea r ing accoun t. Paymen ts to the Ex t e rn al G roup of coun t r ies may be made in rupees to the account of a res ident of any c o u n t ry in the g roup or in any p e rm i t t ed cu r rency .4 Receipts f r om the Ex te r- 4 All r em i t t a n c es by na t ion a ls of the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina to any c o u n t ry ou t s ide I n d ia and a ll r em i t t an c es to the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina by any person res ident in Ind i a, wh e th er for personal or t r a de pu rpo se s, we re s topped w i th e f fect f r om November 3, 1962. Since the r e s um p t i on of t r a de be tween Ind ia and the People's Repub l ic of C h i n a, r em i t t a n c es a r i s ing out of t r ade t r an s a c t ions a re p e rm i t t ed in c o n f o rm i ty w i th exchange con trol regu la t ion s. A ll non t rade - re la ted t r a n s a c t i o ns w i th the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina or n a t i o n a ls of the Peop le 's R e p u b l ic of Ch ina c o n t i n ue to be p r o h i b i t e d, unless genera l ly or sp e c i f i c a l ly a u t h o r i z e d. A u t h o r i z ed dea le rs m ay e f f e ct r em i t t an c es to P a k i s t an on b eh a lf of p r i v a te impo r te rs as in the case of impo r ts f r om o t h er c o u n t r i e s; they also may e f f e ct c e r t a in types of personal r em i t t a n c es in acco rdance w i th r egu l a t ions app l icab le to such rem i t- tances; r em i t t an c es for o ther purposes r equ i re the p r ior approval of the Reserve Bank. 205 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA nal Group of countries may be obtained in rupees f rom the account of a bank situated in any coun try in the group or in any permitted currency. However, special rules may be applicable in respect of exports under lines of credit extended by the Government of India to the governments of certain foreign countries. In addition, payments to and receipts f rom certain member countries of the ACU (see footnote 1) in respect of current trans- actions (other than those relating to petroleum, na tu ral gas, and their products) may, but need not, be effected in Asian Monetary Units through the ACU. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of Indians (w i th tfie exception of certain accounts held by persons of Ind ian na t iona l i ty who are or have been nonresidents) and of Bhutanese and Nepalese nationals resident in Bhu tan and Nepal, as well as the accounts of offices and branches of Ind ian, Bhutanese, and Nepalese firms, companies, or other organizations in Bhu tan and Nepal, are treated as resi- dent accounts.5 Accounts related to all other foreign countries are treated as nonresident accounts. The treatment of these accounts distinguishes between those of banks and of others. The accounts of banks are classified in two groups corresponding to the division of countries for prescrip- tion of currency purposes, i.e., the accounts of banks in the Bilateral Group of countries and the accounts of banks in the External Group of countries. Accounts of banks in the External Group of countries may be credited with payments for imports, interest, dividends, and other authorized purposes, with authorized trans- fers f rom the nonresident accounts of persons and firms ( inc lud ing b ank s ), provided that both the t rans fe ror and the transferee accounts are of the same country or countries in the External Group, and with proceeds f rom sales of permitted currencies. They may be debited for payments for exports and for other payments to residents of India. These accounts may also be debited for transfers to nonresident accounts of persons and firms ( inc lud ing banks) and transfers to Nonresident (Ex terna l) Accounts, provided that both the t rans fe ror and transferee accounts are of the same country or of countries in the External Group. The balances in the accounts of banks in countries in the External Group may be converted into any perm i t ted currency. All other entries on bank accounts require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Ordinary nonresident accounts of individuals or firms may be credited, without prior approval, for payment of dividends and interest on securities, shares, and deposits; re funds of amounts previously debited or over- charged; proceeds of remittances in appropriate fore ign currency or transfers f rom appropriate nonresident banks' rupee accounts (see section on Prescription of 5 However, residents of Nepal obtain their fo re ign exchange require- ments f rom the Nepal Rastra Bank. 206 Currency, above ); proceeds of fore ign exchange ten- dered by the account holder du r ing a temporary visit to India; proceeds f rom checks issued by the L ife Insur- ance Corporation in respect of maturity or death claims and the surrender value of policies held by nonresidents, provided that the Corporation certifies that premiums had been received in India in an approved manner and that actuarial reserves were held in India; all legitimate dues accruing in India to the account holder, such as pensions, provident funds, gratuities, bonuses f rom a former employer, income tax re funds, etc.; and proceeds of checks, provided that the aggregate of such credits during a month does not exceed Rs 2,000 and no individ- ual credit is in excess of Rs 750. Where the nonresident account holder is an Indian national, credits on account of withdrawals or loans f rom, and ma tur i ty proceeds of investments in, the Public Provident Fund Scheme, 1968, rentals f rom and sale proceeds of real estate owned by the account holder, and ma tu r i ty proceeds of all types of securities, as well as proceeds f rom the sale of securi- ties sold on stock exchanges in Ind ia and the repurchase price of un i ts issued by the Un it Trust of India are freely allowed. Ind ian emigrants may ma in ta in ordinary nonresident accounts, and an emigrant's assets in India that are in excess of the remittable amount must be credited to such accounts. Where the account holder is a foreign na t iona l, authorized dealers may credit the sale and ma tu r i ty proceeds of all types of securities and the repurchase price of units, provided that the securities were originally purchased either with funds held in the account or by remittance f rom abroad, and in the case of sale proceeds, that the sale was made on a stock exchange. Proceeds from the sale of shares owned by the nonresident account holder, whether he is an Indian or a foreign national, may be freely credited to his account if the shares were sold with the approval of the Reserve Bank. Ordinary nonresident accounts ma in ta ined by persons of Indian nationality or origin who are resident abroad may be debited without prior approval for such items as the account holder's and his family's expenses during visits to India, up to Rs 3,000 a week; payments for all taxes due from the account holder in India; contribu- tions to the National Defense Fund, the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund, or any government-sponsored charity; allowances not exceeding Rs 2,000 a month to relatives and dependents in India; and authorized for- eign currency remittances or transfers to nonresident bank accounts. The holder may draw a lump sum of up to Rs 10,000 annua l ly for any purpose du r ing his stay in India. Such nonresident accounts may also be debited freely for investment in the Public Provident Fund Scheme, 1968, for payment of the passage fa re for the account holder and his fam i ly and dependents for travel to and f rom India; for payment of premiums on Life Insurance Corporation policies of the account holder and his dependents; for investments in Indian Govern- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ment securities, in units of the Un it Trust of India, and in immovable property in India; and also for checks up to Rs 2,000 a week drawn in favor of beneficiaries in India. Other credits and debits require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Transfers are not nor- mally permitted f rom nonresident accounts of individuals or firms to nonresident accounts of banks, unless the amounts originally credited to such accounts could have been transferred abroad. The special regulations cover- ing funds lodged in National Defence Remittance Scheme Special Accounts were abolished in Apr il 1979 and such accounts are now treated as ordinary nonresi- dent accounts. If the balance on such an account is Rs 50,000 or less, withdrawals may be made freely to meet local payments. Nonresident (External) Accounts may be opened by authorized dealers in India for persons of Ind ian nation- ality or origin resident outside India. Such accounts may also be opened for eligible persons du r ing tempo- rary visits to India against the tender of fo re ign currency travelers checks, notes, or coin. They may be credited with new f u n ds remitted through bank ing channels f rom the country of residence of the account holder or f rom any country in the External Group. They may also be credited with the proceeds of foreign currency travelers checks, personal checks, and d ra f ts in the name of the account holder, as well as foreign currency notes and coin tendered by the account holder dur ing his stay in India, and also with income on authorized investments. The transfer of funds from other Nonresident (Ex te rna l) Accounts or Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts of the same account holder is also allowed. The accounts may be debited for disbursements in India and for t rans fer abroad. Debits on account of payment of fares to and from India for the account holder and his dependents, for investment in government securities and units of the Unit Trust of India, and transfers to other Nonresident (Ex terna l) Accounts of the same account holder are freely allowed. Balances can also be used for purchases of foreign currency or rupee travelers checks or travelers letters of credit for the use of the account holder and his fam i ly and dependents, but transfers of funds f rom an individual account to a simi- lar account of another person are ordinarily not permis- sible. Investments in the shares of Indian companies or in partnership firms, etc., or in immovable property can be made w i th the specific approval of the Reserve Bank. Interest on deposits in such accounts is exempt from income tax and is transferab le. The balances held in such accounts are exempt f rom wealth tax. Foreign Currency (Nonres iden t) Accounts denomi- nated in pounds sterling or U.S. dollars may be held in the form of term deposits by persons of Ind ian nation- ality or origin who are resident in the External Group of countries. These accounts may be credited with amounts received through normal banking channels, including interest, which is free of income tax and INDIA wealth tax. Balances may be repatriated at any time in the currency of denomination, without reference to the Reserve Bank. Balances can also be used for the pur- poses for which debits to Nonresident (External) Accounts are allowed. Imports and Import Payments The Imports and Exports (Control) Act of 1947 empowers the Central Government to prohibit, restrict, or otherwise control imports. Under this Act, the Imports (Control) Order, 1955 was issued, which specified items subject to controls. Imports f rom Nami- bia (South West A f r i c a) and South Afr ica are pro- hibited. There are three types of individual license, General Currency Area Licenses, Specific Licenses (used for capital goods and other supplies against tied a i d ), and Single Coun try Licenses (used for certain imports f rom countries with which bilateral trade or payments agreements are in fo rce ). The Import Policy for 1980-81, which came into effect on April 15, 1980, with its subsequent amend- ments, contains the regulations covering imports. Imports of raw materials, components, and spare parts for industry are classified into three categories: (1) banned, (2) restricted, and (3) canalized. All items not included on these lists are freely available under Open General License. Licenses to indus t ry are issued automatically on the basis of annual requirements as determined by past consumption. Provided that he has exported at least 10 per cent of his production in either of the two previous years, an actual user ( indu s t r ia l) holding an automatic license may import an additional 10 per cent of the value of such a license, in the form of such items as are needed for the manufac tur ing process. The value of a single "consumable" item imported under this fac i l i ty may not exceed Rs 50,000. The actual user ( indu s t r ia l) may also import, within the value of the license, banned items up to a value of Rs 50,000 for each item, provided that the total of all items imported does not exceed 10 per cent of the value of the license. Supplementary licenses may be obtained in case of need, even for the import of banned items. All licenses to indus t ry are issued against free fo re ign exchange. There are special procedures applicable to imports of capital goods. Specified capital goods are banned, while other listed goods may be imported under Open General License, subject to certain conditions. For other capital goods, licenses are gran ted subject to prescribed procedure. For 14 indus tr ies and projects, capital goods may be imported on the basis of global tenders, irrespec- tive of whether the goods are manu fac tu red in India or not (Import Replenishment Scheme ( R E P ) ). The REP licenses are issued to merchant exporters, manu fac tu rer exporters, and export houses and are freely transferable. Registered exporters are permitted to obtain import licenses against export of specified products, and these licenses are valid even for the importation of certain 207 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA banned items necessary for the production of the par- ticular export product. Subject to a value limit on an individual item, manu fac tu rer exporters are allowed to import banned items up to 20 per cent of the value of the REP license. In addition, the REP licenses may be utilized for direct imports of canalized items to the extent the license permits, and also for imports of capital goods, subject to necessary clearances. Small-scale units are given especially liberal trea tment in respect of import licenses, and consortia of small-scale indus tr ies may fo rm export houses. Non indus tr ial actual users, such as research and development laboratories, scientific or higher educational ins t i tu t ions, and hospitals, are eligible to import their requirements of technical and profes- sional equipment, raw materials, components, spare parts, or other items (but not consumer goods) on Open General License. Where a valid import license is held, the required exchange is released by an authorized bank on presenta- tion of the exchange control copy of the license and the sh ipp ing documents. License holders may make pay- ments by opening letters of credit or by rem i t t ing against sight d ra f ts. Advance remittances before shipping docu- ments can be submitted are not no rma l ly allowed; but in special cases, e.g., imports of machinery and capital goods where deposits have to be made with overseas manu fac tu re rs, the Reserve Bank grants special author- ization for advance payment for a pa rt of the value of the import. The import of certain commodities, inc lud ing food- grains, certain oils and fa ts, a number of pharmaceutical products, na tu ral rubber, raw cotton, raw ju te, cement, cashew nuts, most fertilizers, most nonferrous metals, and certain categories of steel, is reserved for the Gov- ernment or state trad ing enterprises, the most important of which are the State Trading Corporation (STC), the Jute Corporation of India, the Food Corporation of India, the Steel Au thor i ty of India, Ltd. (SA IL ), the State Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals Corporation of India (CPC ), and the Minerals and Metals Trad ing Corporation. Bulk imports of certain raw materials that are not reserved for the public sector may also be arranged by state agencies, including the Indus tr ial Raw Materials Assistance Center ( IRMAC) fac i l i ty. In addition to any applicable import duty, imports are subject to an auxiliary duty of 5, 15, or 20 per cent ad valorem. Among the exemptions are foodgrains, raw cotton, tallow, and books. Payments for Invisibles In general, payments abroad for invisibles require approval. Foreign exchange is granted freely for a few such payments, mainly for expenses incidental to trade transactions and transfers of recurring contractual obli- gations. Premiums on insurance policies issued in foreign currency to foreign nationals not permanently resident in India are to be paid only in foreign currency; pay- 208 ment in rupees may be made only on annuities issued against payment f rom recognized superannuation or pension fund s; Indian residents are prohibited from taking out l ife insurance policies in foreign currencies. Branches of foreign banks are not allowed to transfer abroad any profits arising f rom the sale of nonbanking assets. Profit remittances by branches of foreign firms, companies, and banks require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Remittances of dividends by Indian com- panies to their nonresident shareholders do not require prior Reserve Bank approval, provided that certain con- ditions are met. Otherwise, there are no restrictions on the remittance of profits, dividends, and interest to bene- ficiaries permanen t ly resident outside India, provided that all current tax and other liabilities in Ind ia have been cleared. However, remittances of pensions and divi- dends and interest on shares, securities, and deposits to Indian na t iona ls who were granted exchange facilities for emigration on or after January 1, 1963 but before April 30, 1968 are subject to an overall limit of Rs 20,000 a year. For emigrants granted lump-sum exchange facilities a f ter April 30, 1968 on grounds of hardship, no remittance of income is allowed. Foreign nationals temporar i ly resident in India on account of the ir business, profession, or employment are permitted to make reasonable remittances to their own countries to pay insu rance premiums, for the sup- port of their fam i l ies, and for other expenses. Author- ized dealers may allow such remittances by foreign nationals, other than nationals of the People's Republic of China, Pakistan, and South A f r ica, to the extent of 50 per cent of net income, subject to a max imum of Rs 2,500 a month. Requests for the remittance of larger amounts are considered on their merits by the Reserve Bank. Under the Foreign Travel Scheme (FTS) of 1970, residents are permitted to travel abroad without "P" form formalities to all destinations, provided they have not traveled abroad under this scheme since the begin- ning of the previous calendar year. For determination of eligibility, all foreign travel other than under the For- eign Travel Scheme is disregarded. Residents are entitled to foreign exchange up to US$500 or its equivalent on a round-trip ticket, irrespective of the carrier by which they travel. Authorized travel agents, airlines, and steamship companies may book passages under the Foreign Travel Scheme for persons holding eligibility certificates issued by designated branches of public sec- tor nationalized banks. Substantially the same facilities are available for travel to Mauritius under the Mauritius Travel Scheme, and to Seychelles, except that the allowance is limited to US$100. The schemes mentioned above do not preclude access to other travel facilities ( for purposes such as business travel or attendance at conferences or semi- nars, e tc . ). Authorized dealers may sell foreign exchange up to Rs 300 and Rs 400, respectively, to Indian nationals and persons of Indian origin resident ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution in India for travel to Bangladesh and Sri Lanka once in a calendar year.6 Authorized travel agents, airlines, and steamship companies may also book passages for persons going abroad with or without an allocation of foreign exchange (other than under the above schemes), subject only to completion of a "P" fo rm in cases where the passage or fa re is paid in rupees in India. Certain categories of passengers, including persons traveling between India and Nepal by Indian and Nepalese air- lines, deck-class passengers, and employees of airlines and steamship companies traveling abroad on business of their company in one of its carriers, a re^not required to complete a "P" form. Fares for nonresidents' jou r- neys to and from India may be settled, without Reserve Bank approval, in rupees debited to Nonresident (Exter- na l) Accounts. The export of Ind ian currency notes and coin, except to Nepal, is in general prohibited. The export to Nepal of Ind ian currency notes in denominations of Rs 100 or higher is also prohibited. However, deck passengers to Burma, Malaysia, Singapore, Gulf ports, and East Afr ica, and passengers to Bangladesh, Pakistan, or Sri Lanka, may take with them Rs 20 a person at any one time in Indian notes and coin. Exchange bureaus and authorized money changers are permitted to sell fo re ign currency notes and coin up to the equivalent of Rs 100 to travelers proceeding to Bangladesh and up to Rs 200 to those proceeding to other countries except Bhutan and Nepal. Nonresidents may take out the fore ign cur- rency that they brought in (and declared on en try if it exceeded US$1,000), less the amoun ts sold to autho- rized dealers and authorized money changers in Ind ia. Unspent rupee amounts may be reconverted into fore ign currency and taken out. A foreign travel tax at a rate of Rs 100 a passenger is levied on all passengers embarking on an international journey to any destination other than A fghan is tan, Bhu tan, Burma, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. Passengers to these destinations are required to pay tax at a rate of Rs 50 a passenger. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for only a few items, and most commodities may be exported without a license. Most of the controlled commodities are licensed freely to all shippers, a few may be exported through established shippers, and a few commodities are subject to export quotas.7 Exports to Namibia (South West A f r ica) and South Afr ica are prohibited. Exchange control is exercised over the proceeds of exports to countries other than Bhu tan and Nepal. An exporter must declare that the fu ll export proceeds will "B e g i n n i ng J a n u a ry 1, 1981, exchange control regulations for travel to Bang ladesh, Mau r i t iu s, and Sri Lanka were replaced by the Neigh- borhood Travel Scheme, under which residents of Ind ia visiting ne ighbo r ing coun tr ies are eligible for an exchange allowance of US$250 a person every two calendar years; this a r rangement cannot be combined w i th the existing Foreign Travel Scheme. 7 The export of cer ta in commodities, inc lud ing suga r, raw j u t e, and several categories of steel, is reserved for the state trad ing enterprises. INDIA be received and dealt with in accordance with the pre- scription of currency regulations. Foreign exchange holdings, including the proceeds of exports, must be offered for sale against rupees to an authorized dealer, unless the holder has been authorized by the Reserve Bank to retain them, or he is a foreign national or a fore ign person of Indian origin, or he (or his foreign-born w i f e) is not permanently resident in India and the funds do not represent the proceeds of an export. Export proceeds must be surrendered w i th in six months of shipment or, if the goods are sold to Afghan is tan or Pak is tan, w i th in three months of ship- ment. The Reserve Bank may allow an extension of the six-month period where exports of capital goods or engineering goods are concerned. Some exports, including coffee, groundnuts, carda- mom, chromium ore, and iron ore, are subject to export duties. Some others, including mica, tobacco, and hand- woven woolen carpets, are subject to m in imum prices. A substantial number of exports, mainly new manu fac- tures such as engineering goods, receive cash compensa- tory support in lieu of non re fundab le taxes and levies. An Import Replenishment Scheme provides for imports of specified products against exports of certain products. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom inv is ib les must be surrendered. There are schemes for the p r io r i ty allotment of motor scooters, agricultural tractors, and cement against certain inward remittances of fore ign exchange. The impo rt of Ind ian currency notes and coin is, in general, proh ib i ted. How- ever, deck passengers f rom Burma, Malaysia, Singapore, Gulf ports, and East A f r ica, and travelers f rom Pakistan and Sri Lanka, may import into India Rs 20 a person against presentation of evidence that they previously had exported this amount f rom India. Travelers f rom Burma, other than deck passengers, may br ing in Ind ian currency notes up to Rs 50 an adult and Rs 25 a child between the ages of 12 and 18 years. Travelers f rom Nepal may b r ing in up to Rs 75 a person. Foreign cur- rency notes may be brought into India w i thout limit, provided that the total amount brought in is declared to the customs authorities upon arrival if the value of fore ign notes, coin, and travelers checks exceeds US$1,000 or its equivalent. Foreign currency notes may be sold to any authorized dealer in foreign exchange or to any authorized money changer. Capital There are no restrictions on receipt of inward remit- tances f rom any coun t ry through authorized dealers in India; subsequent u t i l iza t ion of such funds in India is, however, sub ject to approval in most cases. Foreign investments, once admitted, are eligible for the same treatment that Ind ian enterprises receive. Banks in Ind ia may borrow free ly f rom their branches and correspondents abroad, provided that borrowings in excess of Rs 2 million are utilized for the purchase of 209 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA rupees from the Reserve Bank or in the in te rbank market to finance their normal business operations in India; repayment of such borrowings requires the prior approval of the Reserve Bank and may be effected only when the debtor bank has no outstanding borrowings in India f rom the Reserve Bank or any other bank. Foreign borrowing by nonbank Indian companies is subject to Reserve Bank approval; only in exceptional cases is permission granted for any loan which has not been obtained as an official or officially guaranteed credit by the Central Government. Reserve Bank permission is required for initiating, expanding, or continuing in India any business activity or holding or acquiring shares of any company carrying on a trad ing, commercial, or industrial activity in Ind ia, by nonresidents, noncitizens, nonbank companies not incorporated under Ind ian law, and Indian companies with over 40 per cent nonresident interest.8 The Reserve Bank will allow the latter companies to continue their activities with a nonresident equity of more than 40 per cent and up to 74 per cent, depending on the extent to which the company is engaged in "core" indus try or export-oriented production, or in manu fac tu r ing activ- ities that require sophisticated technology. Foreign companies can retain a 51 per cent nonresident equity as long as their combined core sector production, appli- cation of sophisticated technology, and export produc- tion account for not less than 60 per cent of the ir annual turnover, with a m in imum of 10 per cent export per- formance within a period not exceeding two years f rom the date of approval by the Reserve Bank. If their combined core sector production, application of sophis- ticated technology, and export production account for not less than 75 per cent of the ir annual turnover, for- eign companies can retain a 74 per cent nonresident ownership. Companies with exports exceeding 40 per cent of the total ex-factory cost of annual production are allowed to operate with 51 per cent nonresident equity, and those with export performance exceeding 60 per cent of total ex-factory cost of annual production are eligible to retain foreign equity up to 74 per cent. Com- panies that export 100 per cent of production may be wholly owned by nonresidents. Companies that are engaged predominantly in trading activities, or that do not meet the other criteria listed above, are required to reduce their foreign shareholding to 40 per cent within 8 Persons of Indian nationality or origin who are resident abroad may invest free ly in any public or private limited company, in any pa r tne rsh ip or proprietorship concern, and in indus tr ia l, manu fac tu r ing, or trade activity (except where the proposed investment is of an unde- sirable n a t u r e ), provided that the funds required are either rem i t ted f rom abroad through normal banking channels or are d rawn f rom the ir Nonresident Accounts, and provided that an unde r tak ing is given that repatriation of the capital invested or the profits and dividends arising the re f rom will not be requested. Nonresident Indians and per- sons of Indian origin residing abroad can also invest up to 20 per cent of the new equ i ty capital issued by new companies setting up permitted industrial projects and up to 74 per cent of new investments, including expansion of existing indus t r ial under tak ings in specified priority indus- tries, and can f ree ly repatriate such investment and income therefrom a f ter deduction of applicable Indian taxes. 210 a specified period, or change their activities to meet the above criteria. Branches of foreign companies other than airlines, shipping companies, and liaison offices must in all cases become Indian companies. All companies are subject to "dilution" formulas, as follows: companies with foreign direct holdings exceed- ing 75 per cent must raise 40 per cent of the estimated cost of expansion through additional equity capital issued to Indians; for companies with foreign holdings above 60 per cent but below 75 per cent and above 51 per cent but below 60 per cent, the corresponding propor- tions are 33.3 per cent and 25 per cent, respectively. No new foreign equity is permitted in companies engaged predominantly in internal trading and com- mercial activities. Without the permission of the Reserve Bank, residents are prohibited f rom lending to, or depositing money with, a nonbank firm or company in which the nonresident interest is more than 40 per cent. Noncitizens, non-Indian firms, and nonbank Indian firms with more than 40 per cent foreign participation must obtain Reserve Bank permission in order to acquire, hold, transfer, or dispose of immovable prop- erty within India (except when a lease for a period of not more than five years is invo lved). The prior approval of the Reserve Bank is also required for all transfers of shares of Indian companies by nonresidents or foreign nationals to other persons, whether resident or nonresident. Residents are prohibited, except with Reserve Bank permission, from engaging in any transaction which increases beyond 49 per cent the nonresident share of a business outside India in which the nonresident interest is 49 per cent or less, and they are also prohibited, except with Reserve Bank permission, from holding, acquiring, transferr ing, or disposing of immovable prop- erty outside India (except where a lease of not more than five years is involved). Residents also require Reserve Bank approval to transfer any interest in a business in India to a nonresident, a noncitizen, a non- bank company not incorporated under Ind ian law, or an Indian company with over 40 per cent foreign par- ticipation. Furthermore, Reserve Bank approval is required for residents exporting Indian securities to any place outside India and transferring Indian securities to nonresidents. Residents are prohibited —except with central government or Reserve Bank permission —from guaranteeing the obligation of a nonresident or the obli- gation of a resident in favor of a nonresident, and are also prohibited, except with central government per- mission, f rom associating with or participating in any business concern outside India. Capital invested in approved projects after January 1, 1950 by residents of other countries, including capital appreciation on the original investment, may be repatri- ated at any time. However, Reserve Bank approval must be obtained before effecting a sale which involves repatriation of assets. The proceeds of approved sales are allowed to be remitted in suitable installments, not ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exceeding four. The proceeds from liquidated foreign investments not eligible for repatriation are kept in a nonresident account. Indian nationals are not normally granted any foreign exchange facilities for emigration purposes. In cases of exceptional hardship, foreign exchange may be released up to the equivalent of Rs 100,000 in one lump sum at the time of emigration; the remainder of the emigrant's assets and income is kept in a nonresident account and no fu r ther remittances, including pensions, if any, are allowed. Foreign nationals who are tempo- ra r i ly resident in India (other than nationals of the Peo- ple's Republic of China, Pakistan, and South A f r ica) are permitted at the time of their retirement to transfer to their own countries the proceeds from the sale of their investments, subject to a limit of Rs 100,000 for each fam i ly at the time of retirement and the remainder in annual installments not exceeding Rs 50,000; in addi- tion, they may transfer all their current remittable assets in India. There are no restrictions on the import into India of Ind ian or fore ign securities. The acquisition, sale, trans- fer, export, or other disposal of foreign securities requires approval. Residents (other than foreign nation- als temporarily but not permanently resident in India and their foreign-born wives also not permanently resi- dent in Ind ia) who are private persons are not normally permitted to purchase securities or personal real estate outside India. Ind ian nationals, and persons of Indian origin holding foreign passports, resident abroad and wishing to re turn to India to take up employment or to set up small indus- trial un i ts are upon application exempted, for a period of five years from the date of their re turn to India, f rom the requirement that any foreign currency balances in their possession be surrendered within three months of arrival. As an alternative to holding such balances in the fo rm of foreign currency, the holder may use the funds for the import of machinery, raw materials, and com- ponents, subject to an import license, or, in small amounts, for personal requirements. Furthermore, they have the option of surrender ing their balances immedi- ately, with the right to reacquire them within five years in case they decide to return to a foreign country. Bal- ances held in Nonresident (Ex te rna l) Accounts or For- eign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts in India by such persons on the date of their return to India are also eligible for similar retransfer or reconversion facilities. These various facilities are not available in respect of earnings arising from employment abroad with any Indian-owned organization. Foreign nationals in India not permanently residing there are permitted to ma in- tain foreign currency accounts; this permission is also extended to foreign nationals of Indian origin who have come to India for employment of a specified duration or for an assignment not exceeding three years. Under the Returning Indians Foreign Exchange Entitlement Scheme, persons of Indian nationality or INDIA origin re tu rn ing to India for permanent residence on or after November 1, 1977 are entitled to avail them- selves of fore ign exchange to the extent of 25 per cent of the amount they brought in on transfer of resi- dence, plus the balance held in their Nonresident (Ex terna l) Accounts and Foreign Currency (Nonresi- den t) Accounts for certain specified purposes for which exchange is normally not freely available. Persons eligible under the scheme may make use of the exchange facility within a period of ten years from the date of re tu rn of the head of the fam i ly. Gold A detailed control is exercised over the acquisition, possession, manu fac tu re, and disposal of gold through the Administration of Gold (Control) Act. There is a ban on private possession of p r ima ry gold. Although there is no ban on possession of finished articles of gold (including coin) previously declared, there is restriction on their manu fac tu re and acquisition. There is no restriction on the acquisition, disposal, or possession of gold ornaments, except that holdings of such ornaments (which may be of any pu r i ty) above specified limits must be declared. The consumption of gold by indus- trial users is regulated through permits and authoriza- tions. Control is exercised over dealers and goldsmiths through a system of licensing. Gold refining is under state management. The Government Mint is licensed to accept tenders of gold for purposes of refining and conversion into s tanda rd gold bars. Forward trad ing in gold or silver is prohibited; exports of silver bullion, sheets, and plates are banned, and exports of products of silver are subject to quota restrictions. With the exception of; jewelry constituting the per- sonal effects of a traveler, imports of gold in any fo rm by residents other than the monetary authorities require special authorization from the Reserve Bank and are not normally perm i t ted; in certain cases, however, jewelers are permitted to manu fac tu re gold jewelry in bond f rom imported gold, for export purposes only. Special permission for imports of gold and silver is granted only in exceptional cases where either no fo r- eign exchange transaction is involved or the metals are needed for a particular purposes. Special permission is also granted in cases where the gold or silver is imported for processing and re-export, provided that payment for the import will not be required, that the entire qu an t i ty of metal imported will be re-exported in the form of jewelry, and that the value added will be repatriated to India in foreign exchange through an authorized dealer. Exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry produced in Ind ia for export with a gold va lue not exceeding 10 per cent of total value, and jewelry con- stituting the personal effec ts of a traveler, subject to certain mone tary limits, are prohibited, unless the export is made by or on behalf of the monetary authori- ties. Under the gold jewelry export scheme, net export 211 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA of gold f rom India is not permitted, and the export of gold jewelry is permitted only if the value added is 15 per cent or more; export under the scheme to the Bilateral Group of countries is not permitted. Changes during 1980 January 9. The spot buy ing and selling rates for the pound sterling in terms of the rupee were changed to correspond to a middle rate of Rs 18.00 per <£ stg. 1, compared with a middle rate of Rs 17.80 per <£ stg. 1 fixed on December 4, 1979. Thereafter, the rates were changed on a number of occasions, and on November 29, 1980 the middle rate was Rs 18.85 per <£ stg. 1. For- ward rates for one to nine months were ad jus ted accordingly. January 10. Tourists v is i t ing India were required to obtain a waiver fo rm f rom the Reserve Bank of India if the value of articles (o ther than m anu f a c tu r ed articles of silver) purchased in India and taken out of India exceeded Rs 10,000, compared w i th the previous l im it of Rs 1,000. January 11. The export of pig iron was banned. January 17. The Gold Jewelry Export Replenishment Scheme, which provided exporters of gold jewelry with import replenishment facilities, was suspended because of the sharp increase in the international price of gold. January 24. The ban on economic relations with Rhodesia (Z imbabwe) was l if ted, and normal trans- actions with that coun try were restored, subject to the provisions of the exchange control regulations. February 7. The export of meat of sheep and goat was banned. February 18. An export duty of Rs 1,000 per ton of ju te manufac tures (hessian cloth and bags) was imposed, which was subsequently w i thd rawn on Sep- tember 8. April 5. The ruble-rupee exchange rate was revised to rub 1 = Rs 9.6378 on April 5 and to rub 1 = Rs 9.3407 on November 10. April 5. The rates of cash assistance were reduced for cotton hosiery f rom 7.5 per cent to 5 per cent of the f.o.b. value of exports and for other items (exclud- ing fabrics, garments, and y a rn) f rom 5 per cent to 2.5 per cent. April 15. The Import Policy for 1980-81 was announced. It contained the following provisions: ( 1) some 57 items were shifted from the Open General License list to the restricted or banned list (they included various chemicals, sisal yarn, and certain process con- trol and precision measuring in s t rumen t s ); (2) a num- ber of items (including glass fiber, watch dials, and industrial jewels) were transferred f rom the restricted list to the banned list; (3) 74 items were shifted to the Open General License list (e.g., photographic film and paper and lead and copper s c r ap ); (4) in fu tu re, "actual users" would be issued automatic licenses up to 10 per cent in excess of their consumption of raw materials, 212 components, and spare parts in either of the two pre- vious years, provided that at least 10 per cent of their output was exported; otherwise, the value of the import license would be confined to the same level of consump- tion; ( 5) manu fac tu rer exporters would be allowed to import against their own REP licenses not only items appearing in the "shopping list" as h i ther to but any other raw materials, components, consumables, or pack- ing ma ter ia ls required by them for use in their own factories; (6) raw materials for specific export products could be imported du ty free against REP licenses. May 30. With effect f rom June 2, the practice of bas ing rates for spot and fo rwa rd purchases of deutsche mark, Japanese yen, and U.S. dollars on the previous working day's London closing rates was modified and, hencefor th, wou ld be based on the latest ava i lab le rates and t rends in in te rna t ional fo re ign exchange markets. The rates wou ld be announced every day and may be changed at any time, if the need arose. June 12. Perm iss ion was g ran ted for registered exporters to impo rt cer ta in items that had previously been reserved for state agencies under the Import Rep len ishment Scheme, provided they obtained the prior sanction of the Chief Controller of Impor ts and Exports. In add i t ion, the scheme was modified whereby imports of up to 25 per cent of the quan t i ty and va lue of items used in the m anu f a c tu r e rs of exported prod- ucts would be a l lowed w i thout prior sanction. June 18. The permissible limit of the percentage of gold content in jewe l ry and articles for export was reduced f rom 40 per cent to 10 per cent. July 5. The export du ty on j u te specialities was with- drawn. July 15. It was announced that a non tou r i st passenger would be allowed to impor t, as part of his baggage, without an import license, but on payment of import duty, personal or household effects for his own use or for the use of his own fam i ly. August 19. The capital inves tment l im i t, taken as the norm for iden t i f ica t ion of small-scale un i ts, was modified. This l im it was raised f rom Rs 1 million to Rs 1.5 million. Similarly, anc i l la ry un i ts would be treated as small-scale un i ts if they have fixed a s se t s -up to a va lue of Rs 2.5 million instead of Rs 1.5 m i l l ion previously. September 3. Revised guidelines issued by the M in- istry of Indu s t ry for fore ign par t ic ipa t ion in indus t r ial ventures liberalized existing restrictions on expans ion of Ind ian and foreign companies, h i ther to restricted by s ta tu te or l icens ing requ iremen ts; among the sectors affected were electronics, passenger automobiles, com- mercial vehicles, fertilizers, leather and leather produc ts, air conditioners for automobiles, machines for textiles, rubber, p r in t ing, paper and pu lp, food processing, and cement. September 25. Licensing restrictions on p lan ts pro- ducing for export were lifted where the add i t ional out- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA put was destined for export. In addition, higher royalty rates would be allowed for imports of technology used to increase production for exports. Under the new policy for monopoly houses, these houses were allowed to expand by 25 per cent in five years in 34 sectors of industry. For industrial units not covered by the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, pro- duction capacity may be expanded w i thout prior approval by the authorities on condition that the new capacity would be used for exports. September 26. Authorized dealers were instructed to keep specified quotations for ready clean telegraphic transfers in various currencies, other than the pound sterling, within maximum spreads vary ing from 1 per cent to 2.5 per cent f rom the mean te legraph ic t r a n s f er rate. October 14. A new scheme for the export of gold jewe l ry was announced, which s t ipu la ted tha t, inter alia, gold required for the manu fac tu re of articles or jewelry should have been supplied f ree of charge by the fo r e ign buyers, that there shou ld be no net export of gold f rom Ind ia, and that export of gold jewe l ry would be pe rm i t ted on ly if the va lue added was 15 per cent or more; exports under the scheme were not per- mitted to the Bilateral G roup of countries. December 12. Permission was gran ted for impor ts of capital goods even on deferred payment terms under the Open General License. 213 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Indonesia is the Indonesian Rupiah. Since November 16, 1978 the middle rate of the rupiah in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, has been set by Bank Indonesia using a basket of cur- rencies of Indonesia's main trading partners as one of the variables. Transactions in the Jakar ta Foreign Exchange Bourse are effected at rates within 1 per cent either side of the middle rate of the rupiah; on Decem- ber 31, 1980 the buying and selling rates for telegraphic transfers were Rp 625.25 and Rp 629.75, respectively, per US$1. Exchange rates for certain other currencies1 are determined on the basis of the rates in the Jakar ta Bourse for the U.S. dollar and rates for the currencies concerned in international markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. In the Bourse, daily calls for exchange are conducted under the management of Bank Indonesia. Bidding for exchange is restricted to the authorized foreign exchange banks, nonbank financial institutions, and licensed foreign exchange dealers. Bank Indonesia is committed to deal with any willing buyer or seller at the going rate. Representatives of the foreign exchange banks no t i fy Bank Indonesia of their supply to the market, and each presents a bid for the total of his bank's requirements at a particular rate. Bank Indonesia clears the market at the intervention rate. The Bank also offers authorized banks and nonbank financial institutions certain facilities for swap transactions in U.S. dollars. Administration of Control The implementation of exchange and trade control is entrusted to Bank Indonesia, the Ministry of Trade and Cooperatives, the Ministry of Finance, authorized foreign exchange banks, and the customs authorities. Exchange control is administered by Bank Indonesia and the Ministry of Finance. Exporters' licenses are issued by the offices of the Ministry of Trade and Cooperatives in provincial capitals. Sabang is entirely outside the Indonesian exchange and trade control system,2 but the Indonesian rupiah is legal tender there. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized banks and are normally effected in con- vertible currencies. Export proceeds must be received in 1 Currencies commonly used in Indonesia's international transactions, i.e., Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Malaysian ringgit, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kroner, and Swiss f rancs. 2 With the exception that the prohibition on imports of certain auto- mobiles is applicable also in Sabang. 214 specified currencies.3 Indonesia maintains no operative bilateral payments agreements.4 Nonresident Accounts There are no restrictions on the opening by foreign nationals of accounts in Indonesia in rupiahs or foreign currencies with authorized foreign exchange banks. No distinction for exchange control purposes is made between resident and nonresident accounts. However, no checks may be drawn on foreign currency accounts; if the account holder wishes to withdraw f u n d s, a letter must be sent to the bank. Imports and Import Payments There is a registry of authorized importers, and an initial deposit is required for registration. Since Octo- ber 31, 1968 only Indonesian nationals can be authorized as importers, although foreign investors are permitted to import the items required for their own projects. Imports from Angola, South A f r ica, and Zimbabwe are prohibited, as are imports f rom all sources of most secondhand goods and of specified commodities. The latter include bu i l t -up sedans and station wagons; com- ponents for the assembly of luxu ry automobiles; bu i l t-up commercial vehicles and motorcycles; certain types of airplanes and helicopters; radio and television sets in built-up or semiknocked-down condition; galvanized iron sheets; iron roofing sheets; mosquito sticks; matches; monosodium glutamate; mattresses; certain types of cotton yarn and specified types of textiles; automobile tires; batteries; printed ma t ter; office supplies; animal traps; bottles; and certain lamps and light bulbs. Imports of cloves, fertilizer, rice, refined sugar, and wheat and wheat flour are restricted to specified approved import- ers. Imports of certain commodities for the "basic national stockpile" are reserved for state enterprises; these currently include cement, newsprint, certain types of paper, automobile tires, asphalt, cotton weaving yarn, sheet iron, reinforcing steel, raw materials for maritime industries, and pharmaceutical raw materials. No special licenses are required for permitted imports, except for imports of cement, certain newsprint, and certain cotton weaving yarn. In principle, all permitted imports may be paid for with general exchange (Devisa Umum). Bankers' sight letters of credit are required for most private sector imports, with the exception of parcel imports, goods brought in by travelers of a value not exceeding US$100, imports specifically authorized by the Ministry of Trade and Cooperatives or by the Investment Coordinating Board in the case of goods constituting part of a foreign investment, and those specific cases in which usance 3 The currencies listed in footnote 1 and the U.S. dollar. * Indonesia maintains an inoperative bilateral paymen ts agreement with the People's Republic of China. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution letters of credit may be allowed. For certain imports financed with general exchange, importers are required to make an advance deposit of at least 40 per cent of the letter of credit value when submitting applications for letters of credit to authorized banks, and to settle the balance upon receipt of the documents, upon arrival of the goods, or within 75 days of the opening of the letter of credit. Exempt from this requirement are raw materials, certain capital goods, and spare parts. Import duties, which are partly specific and partly ad valorem, are imposed on "check" prices (indicative prices) determined by the Ministers of Trade and Cooperatives, Industry, and Finance on the recom- mendation of a Check Price Team. These prices reflect c.i.f. prices and are changed when prices abroad differ by more than 10 per cent from the check prices for the preceding three months. Sales taxes of 5, 10, and 20 per cent are levied on most imports on their c. & f. value plus import duty. Items that are exempt from import duties are also exempt from sales taxes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Angola, the People's Republic of China, Israel, South Africa, and Zimbabwe are prohibited, as are exports to all countries of gold ore and pure gold; rawhides of cattle; certain categories of unprocessed or low-quality rubber; certain logs and timber; all types of waste paper (from Java and Madu ra ); scrap of bronze and copper (except from Irian Jaya ); iron scrap; steel scrap; fertilizers; rice; sugar; kapok seeds; and raw rattan. Exports of certain domestically produced com- modities are controlled by means of quotas, in order to maintain supplies to meet domestic demand; these include fertilizers, cement, construction reinforcements of iron, automobile tires, paper, asphalt, stearin, cattle, salt, wheat flour, sugar, maize, soybeans, rice, copra, coconut oil, palm oil, and meat. The prior authorization of the Minister of Trade and Cooperatives is required for the export of flatbark crepe, cinchona bark, clove seeds, pepper seeds, silver, antiques of cultural value, and all goods produced from subsidized raw materials. Other- wise, all commodities may be freely exported by regis- tered private firms and state trading firms. Certain export transactions may be settled under usance letters of credit; the maximum maturity is 180 days, starting from the date of the bill of lading. Other- wise, all exporters except certain mining companies and licensed "border-crossing" traders must require their buyers to open a bank letter of credit covering the value of the goods to be exported. The exporter must surrender the full foreign exchange value prior to ship- ment if there is no banker's letter of credit.5 For the principal export commodities other than petroleum, the sale prices must not be lower than the "indicative" prices determined periodically by the Minister of Trade and Cooperatives. The full proceeds from exports other 5 There are separate arrangements for exports of orchids. INDONESIA than petroleum, products of certain mining companies, certain exports from export-processing zones, and goods exported by licensed "border-crossing" traders are sub- ject to surrender. Exports of copra cake, sawn timber, rubber, coffee, palm kernels, palm oil, pepper, and a few other commodities are subject to a 5 per cent tax, the major mineral products to a 10 per cent tax, and semiprocessed rattan, unsawn timber ( logs), and cer- tain types of hides to a 20 per cent tax. Certain commodities produced in border regions may be exported to Malaysia and the Philippines in exchange for certain eligible goods. In this "border-crossing" trade with Malaysia, the value of import or export trans- actions must not exceed M$600 a month, whether trans- ported overland or by sea; for the Philippines, the value of imports or exports must not exceed the rupiah or peso equivalent of US$150 for a single trip if trans- ported by sea-going vessel or US$1,500 if transported by boat. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted or subject to control. Pro- ceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered. Travelers may take out and bring in any amount in foreign bank- notes but only Rp 2,500 in Indonesian notes and coin other than gold and silver commemorative coins (see section on Gold, below). Capital Foreign capital invested in Indonesia is governed primarily by the Foreign Capital Investment Law of January 10, 1967, as amended in August 1970, by Presidential Guidelines issued on January 22, 1974 and September 21, 1974, and by two Presidential Decrees promulgated on October 3, 1977. In principle, such investments may be undertaken only through a joint venture with an Indonesian partner. All investments in Indonesia require the approval of the President on the recommendation of the Investment Coordinating Board (BKPM ). Enterprises that are wholly or largely oper- ated in Indonesia as separate business units must be incorporated under Indonesian law and must have their domicile in Indonesia. The operating permit for foreign investment is usually valid for a maximum of 30 years. Among the inducements offered are exemption from, or reduction in, corporate and dividend taxes and customs duties on imported raw materials and capital goods for a certain number of years. Investors are granted the right to transfer profits (a f ter settlement of taxes and financial obligations in Indonesia) and to make trans- fers relating to expenses connected with the employment of foreign nationals in Indonesia, and in respect of depreciation allowances after the expiration of the tax holiday from corporation tax. The law provides that no transfer permit shall be issued for capital repatriation as long as the investments benefit from tax relief; at present, however, foreign payments do not require a transfer permit. The exploration and development of 215 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA petroleum resources are governed by the Petroleum Law of 1960. A Debt Investment Conversion Scheme (DIGS) exists for the benefit of foreign creditors holding non- guaranteed claims against Indonesia. Rupiahs covered by the Scheme are administered in two kinds of DICS- Rupiah Accounts, A and B, the former relating only to claims of which the creditor is the first holder. Private creditors willing to accept the terms of the Scheme and prepared to make investments under the Foreign Capital Investment Law of 1967 are paid in rupiahs in settle- ment of their claims. These claims are transferable to other potential investors in Indonesia, but only the original creditor's DICS rupiahs may be used, in the creditor's own projects that have been approved under the Foreign Capital Investment Law of 1967, for the purchase of foreign exchange for the import of equip- ment and raw materials necessary for the establishment and operation of those projects. There are no limitations on the remittance to Indo- nesia of capital in the form of foreign exchange or com- modities. Both residents and nonresidents may hold foreign currency deposits with foreign exchange banks. However, foreign exchange banks and nonbank financial institutions are subject to Bank Indonesia directives with respect to borrowing abroad, the acceptance of deposits from nonresidents, and the issuance of certificates of deposit to nonresidents. A 15 per cent reserve require- ment is applicable to the foreign currency liabilities of foreign exchange banks; no reserve requirements are applicable to the foreign borrowings of nonbank finan- cial institutions or private companies. Certain borrowing abroad is subject to clearance by Bank Indonesia, and all foreign borrowing is subject to reporting to Bank Indonesia and /or the Ministry of Finance. The prior approval of the Minister of Finance is required before any public enterprise or public sector body may accept a loan from abroad. Indonesian citizens and residents of foreign nationality may freely transfer, negotiate, import, and export securi- ties denominated in rupiahs or in foreign currency. Gold Indonesia has issued six commemorative gold coins, which are legal tender. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold and gold coins in Indonesia. Exports of gold ore and pure gold, unless made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, are prohibited. Travelers may freely take out Indonesian commemorative gold and silver coins issued in August 1970 up to Rp 65,000 a person and gold and silver coins issued in October 1974 up to Rp 130,000 a person; amounts in excess of these limits require the prior approval of Bank Indo- nesia. Gold may be imported free of license only by importers designated by the Government. Such imports require prior notification to the Ministry of Industry and are subject to an additional levy of Rp 25 per US$1. 216 Changes during 1980 January 19. The import du ty and the import sales tax on galvanized iron and steel for certain industries were lowered to 20 per cent and 2.5 per cent, respec- tively. January 29. Imports of certain types of airplanes and helicopters (e.g., CASA C-212, BD-105, and PUMA S-330), which are built or assembled domestically, were prohibited. January 31. The temporary reduction of the import duty and the import sales tax on a number of products, such as tractors for agricultural use, was revoked. February 13. A number of items (e.g., books and newspapers) were added to the list of manufac tured goods exportable under irrevocable usance letters of credit. February 28. The import duty and the import sales tax on polyester filament yarn and certain other types of yarn were reduced to 15 per cent and 2.5 per cent, respectively. March 25. The import du ty and the import sales tax on cut orchids were raised to 60 per cent and 10 per cent, respectively. March 31. The import du ty on raw material for liquid milk drinks was reduced f rom 50 per cent to 30 per cent. April 1. Imports of orchid seedlings were exempted from the import du ty and the import sales tax. A lso exempted were imports of Indonesian oil processed abroad. April 7. An import du ty of 10 per cent and an import sales tax of 5 per cent were imposed on tie-rods for the construction of quays. April 14. The import duty and the import sales tax on raw materials, semifinished components, and finished components for the production of au tomo t ive parts and spark plugs and on raw materials for the production of paper for computer use were reduced. April 19. The import duty and the import sales tax on paper tape were reduced to 20 per cent and 5 per cent, respectively. The import duty and the import sales tax on magazine binding wire were reduced to 30 per cent and 5 per cent, respectively. April 22. The export tax on coconut oil and copra was reduced to 5 per cent, and subsequently, on May 19, these items were exempted from the tax. May 23. Certain raw materials, capital goods, and spare parts were exempted f rom the 40 per cent advance import deposit requirement. May 26. Imports of k r a ft rape paper for the pro- duction of cement bags were exempted f rom the import du ty and the import sales tax. June 9. Imports of ammonium chloride nitrogen for the production of fertilizer were exempted f rom the import duty and the import sales tax. June 23. Imports of rainfall recorders were exempted from the import duty and the import sales tax. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution July 10. Importers of goods subject to the advance import deposit requirement were allowed to obtain credit from the commercial banks to cover the deposit and the remaining balance of the value of letters of credit. July 21. Export taxes were raised to 3.24 per cent on robusta coffee and to 3.6 per cent on arabica coffee. July 22. The list of imports from member countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations given preferential treatment in Indonesia was expanded f rom 566 to 866 product items. July 30. The import duty and the import sales tax on polypropylene film used for the production of season- ing were reduced by 20 per cent and 5 per cent, respectively. August 1. The prohibition on imports of "sarong plekat" was lifted. August 11. Imports of cattle stock were exempted from the import duty and the import sales tax. September 1. Imports of a lum inum sheet of w id th of more than 100 centimeters were allowed. September 2. Imports of grommet bead used for INDONESIA tire manufacturing were exempted from the import du ty and the import sales taxes. September 8. The import d u ty and the import sales tax on goods used in the construction of hotels under the domestic and foreign capital investment laws were reduced to 50 per cent. October 1. The additional export tax on palm oil was raised to 2.4 per cent and that on black tea was raised to 3.67 per cent. October 24. The import duty on electric accumu- lators used for automatic telephone exchanges was reduced to 10 per cent. November 3. The import du ty and the import sales tax on photovoltaic solar generators were reduced to 5 per cent and 2.5 per cent, respectively. November 5. The import duty and the import sales tax on tubes and pipes were reduced to 2 per cent and 2.5 per cent, respectively. November 28. The import duty on steamrollers was reduced to 5 per cent. December 6. Imports of newsprint for the domestic press were allowed only for certain companies. 217 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Iran is the Iranian Rial, which is pegged to the SDR at Rls 92.300 = SDR 1. Exchange rates for individual currencies are determined daily on the basis of the SDR-rial rate and the rates of such currencies in terms of the SDR as declared by the Fund. On December 31, 1980 the official rates of Bank Markazi Iran (the Central Bank) for the U.S. dollar were Rls 72.091 buy ing and Rls 72.541 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in Bank Markazi. All foreign exchange transactions must take place through this Bank or authorized banks. Imports and exports are governed by regulations issued annually by the Ministry of Commerce after being approved by the Council of Ministers. Prescription of Currency Transactions with seven of the ten countries with which Iran has bilateral payments agreements l must be conducted through agreement accounts denominated in U.S. dollars, while those with the People's Republic of China, the German Democratic Republic, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea must be con- ducted through accounts denominated in Iran ian rials. Settlements with Mexico may optionally be made through a clearing account denominated in U.S. dollars. Settlements with the other member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (Bangladesh, Burma, India, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka) in respect of current transactions (other than those relating to petroleum, natural gas, and their products) may be effected in Asian Monetary Units or in the currency of a country that is a party to the individual contract. Payments to and from Pakistan and Turkey relating to visible trade (excluding border trade, petroleum and petroleum prod- ucts, and defense materials) are settled over clearing accounts maintained by the respective central banks in U.S. dollars. Payments to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Foreign nationals are permitted to maintain accounts freely, in rials as well as in foreign currencies, with authorized banks; rial accounts may be used for pay- ments in Iran. Foreign nationals as well as Iranian physical or juridical persons may maintain sight or time deposits in foreign currencies in Iran; these accounts may be used for transfers abroad subject to approval by Bank Markazi. 1 Albania, Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Democratic People's Re- public of Korea, Poland, Romania, and U.S.S.R. 218 Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Afr ica are prohibited and special regulations apply to certain commodities when originating in Hong Kong. Some imports into Iran are made by government-operated import agencies (import centers) but ind iv idual importers can, however, initiate the importation of goods, subject to the prior approval of the import centers. The import policy is re-examined annually, and a new Import List, effective for the next Iranian year (March 21-March 20), is pub- lished by the Ministry of Commerce. The Import List distinguishes between "authorized," "unauthorized," and "prohibited" goods. "Unauthorized" imports are goods whose importation is not considered essential, including goods whose local production is sufficient to meet domes- tic demand. Commodities may be shifted from the "authorized" list to the "unauthorized" list, and vice versa, as and when deemed necessary. For "prohibited" goods, no authorizations are given; these comprise items such as opium, firearms, and imports considered to be luxu ry goods. Imports of "authorized" goods free of payment require prior approval by the Ministry of Com- merce and Bank Markazi. However, these imports are permitted without limitation, provided that they are registered and that the registration fee is paid. Payments may be made either against bills for collec- tion or documentary letters of credit. Payments against bills for collection may be made without prior authoriza- tion for goods (ma in ly capital goods and raw materials) listed in the Schedule attached to Circular No. 9292 of September 17, 1978. Payments for imports of other goods may also be made against bills for collection with- out prior permission from Bank Markazi, provided that the bills are settled w i th in nine months. All orders for imports must be registered with Bank Markazi through an authorized bank; registration is effected against a pro forma invoice. At the time of registration of imports, a fee of 1 per cent of the amount of the import order, calculated on the basis of the official selling rate, is collected by authorized banks. Imports brought in under the Law for the Attraction and Protection of Foreign Invest- ment in Iran are exempt f rom the fee. For some goods, impor ters must lodge with Bank Markazi, through an authorized bank, a deposit of 15 per cent of the c.i.f. value; this is done at the time of registration. Most food items and certain other commodities are exempt from the registration deposit. The deposit is refundable upon presentation of the customs clearance certificate after the goods have been cleared through customs, or if and when the order is canceled. Bank Markazi may permit, when necessary, the shifting of imports from ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the category in which an advance import deposit is required to the exempt category and vice versa. Authorized banks make payments for permitted imports against the presentation of shipping documents. Approval of the shipping documents by the authorized banks represents approval of the foreign exchange transfer. Most imports are subject to commercial benefit taxes, which are either specific or ad valorem and are imposed in addition to any applicable customs duty. Monopoly taxes are included in the commercial benefit taxes. The authorities specify in the Import List the ^commercial benefit taxes for each year. These taxes are paid to the customs before customs clearance. The clearance through customs is authorized upon the presentation of shipping documents endorsed by an authorized bank, specifying that payment has been made or will be made, and, when required, that the special import authorization has been received from government agencies prior to lading of goods in the country of origin. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to imports are made on the same basis as payments for the f.o.b. value of those imports. Official exchange is granted to importers for insurance of imports against bills for collection; for imports covered by documentary letters of credit, insur- ance must be taken out in Iran. Official exchange also is not granted for the payment of other insurance premi- ums, although payment of premiums for reinsurance is permitted. Foreign nationals working in Iran, whose employ- ment has been recognized as necessary by the Govern- ment, may remit about 50 per cent of their net salaries. The basic travel allowance for an individual Iran ian is the equivalent of US$2,250. Persons needing medical treatment may obtain for- eign exchange up to the equivalent of US$10,000; addi- tional foreign exchange can be obtained against medical bills certified by an Iranian consulate abroad. The sale of foreign exchange to students studying abroad is limited to the equivalent of US$1,000 a month (US$1,500 for married students), transferable on a quarterly basis and subject to a letter of verification. Iranian physical and juridical persons may make remit- tances abroad from domestic current accounts in which they retain foreign exchange received from sources abroad, with the prior approval of Bank Markazi. Iranian nationals leaving the country are required to pay a travel tax of Rls 20,000 for each single-journey exit permit. The tax is imposed also for pilgrimage travel. For fam i ly members traveling on the same pass- port (wife, and children from 7 to 18 years of age), the rate is Rls 5,000 a person. Iranians resident abroad and students studying abroad but visiting home temporarily are exempt from the tax. IRAN Travelers leaving Iran may take with them Rls 20,000 in Iran ian banknotes. Travelers of foreign nationality may not export foreign currency in excess of the amount they imported less the amounts they have sold to author- ized banks, as recorded in their passports. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of some commodities require licenses. The commercial benefit tax and customs du ty charged at the time of import of raw materials con ta ined in manu fac tu red goods for export may be returned to the exporter after the export has taken place. Bank Markazi offers p re fe ren t ial rates of exchange for export pro- ceeds in certain cases. The foreign currency proceeds from exports of com- modities must be sold to banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange. Authorized banks normally accept export proceeds only in currencies quoted by Bank Markazi, but they are permitted to accept other cur- rencies at their discretion. Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles may be retained in a foreign currency account with an authorized bank; transfers f rom such accounts require the prior approval of Bank Markazi. Travelers may freely bring in Rls 20,000 in Iranian banknotes; the import of larger amounts requires the prior approval of Bank Markazi as does the repatriation of Iranian banknotes through the postal system. Capital I ran ian na t iona ls may retain in domestic fore ign cur- rency accounts any capital receipts accruing in foreign exchange; transfers abroad from such accounts require the approval of Bank Markazi. Re transfer abroad of foreign capital is permitted with approval from Bank Markazi, provided that the inflow had been specifically authorized by, and registered with, Bank Markazi. The net short-term foreign liabilities of the commercial banks are subject to a reserve requirement of 20 per cent. In accordance with the Law for the Attraction and Protection of Foreign Investment in Iran (1955) and regu la t ions implementing the law, foreign capital invested in approved development or productive activi- ties in indus try, mining, agriculture, or transport may be repatriated, together with net profits (in accordance with Article 1 of the law and the provisions contained in the implementing regulations), in the form of foreign exchange and /or goods. Transfers of exchange must be made at the official market selling rate prevailing on the date of transfer. However, Bank Markazi has the option of buy ing the exchange or accepting it as a deposit to be converted into rials at a rate mutually agreed upon in a separate agreement, and this rate is applicable to 219 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAN any repatriation of the funds. Capital imported under this law in the form of foreign exchange must be in cur- rencies acceptable to Bank Markazi; the exchange is converted into rials at the buying rate prevailing on the date of application for conversion. Foreign participation in domestic enterprises is subject to ceilings. In invest- ment areas with special technological requirements, for- eign participation is limited to 35 per cent. In sectors with lower technological requirements the ceiling is less than 35 per cent. However, in newly founded joint ownership companies, the foreign partner may apply for a higher share in ownership for up to five years, unless he immediately limits his share to the legal maximum. Gold No Iran ian gold coins are legal tender. Residents may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold and silver in any form in I r an, and there is a f ree market for both metals. Authorized banks may import gold and silver bullion with prior approval of Bank Markazi against settlement at the official rate. The import and export of gold for monetary purposes or for in terna t ional settlements is reserved for Bank Markazi, while imports for indus tr ial and dental use are effected by professional organizations at the official rate and subject to supervision by Bank Markazi. The export of Iran ian gold coins for numismatic purposes requires prior approval by Bank Markazi. Imports of gold are free f rom customs du ty but are subject to a commercial benefit tax of 5 per cent and an import registration fee of 1 per cent. Changes during 1980 January 22. Importation of a wide range of items deemed to be luxu ry goods was prohibited. March 21. The following trade measures were intro- duced: ( 1) ind iv idual importers could in i t ia te the impor- tation process but actual importation must be made through government-operated import agencies ( impo rt centers) and (2) preferential ta r i f fs were introduced for imports f rom Islamic and developing countries. May 22. The I ran ian rial was pegged to the SDR at a rate of Rls 92.300 = SDR 1. 220 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Iraq is the Iraqi Dinar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at ID 1 = US$3.3778. The official buying and selling rates on. December 31, 1980 were US$3.3950 and US$3.3778, respectively, per ID 1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. The Central Bank of Iraq undertakes transactions in the listed currencies only with authorized dealers. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Board of Administration of the Central Bank; this authority has been delegated to the Governor and his Deputy who act on recommendations submitted by an Advisory Com- mittee on Foreign Exchange. Certain approval authority has been delegated to the Department of Foreign Exchange of the Central Bank and to licensed dealers. Foreign exchange transactions must take place through a licensed dealer unless otherwise authorized by the Governor. All branches of the Rafidain Bank, the sole commercial bank, are licensed dealers. Import policy is determined by the Committee for the Regulation of Trade. A foreign exchange budget, including an import pro- gram, is established annually, and foreign exchange allocations under the import program are supervised by the Import Program Committee. Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries normally must be made in any of the listed currencies or by drawing on a nonresident account in Iraqi dinars, provided that the funds on the nonresident account were obtained orig- inally through credits in any one of the listed curren- cies. There are no bilateral payments arrangements. Payments to and receipts f rom Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Remittances by nonresidents working in Iraq are permitted up to a limit of 50 per cent of earnings, and certain nonresident private sector com- panies that have contracts with public institutions in Iraq are permitted to transfer amounts provided for in those contracts. Nonresident Accounts The opening of a nonresident account requires the approval of the exchange control authorities. Nonresi- 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. dent accounts are divided into ordinary nonresident accounts, which arise from transactions in respect of current payments, and special nonresident accounts, which arise from transactions in respect of capital transfers. Imports and Import Payments With few exceptions, imports of commodities are handled by the socialized sector. All private imports are subject to licenses, except imports of materials con- s t i tu t ing basic elements for development projects benefit- ing f rom Law No. 157 of 1973. In principle, licenses are issued in accordance with an annual import pro- gram. Imports of all goods from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of some commodities on a pro- tection list are, in principle, prohibited f rom all sources. A tax is levied on the amount of any supplementary import licenses above a private importer's annual quota. Regulations determining the incidence of this tax are issued annua l ly. To finance the Export Subsidy Fund, a tax of 0.5 per cent is levied on imports of capital goods and a tax of 0.75 per cent on imports of con- sumer goods. All imports subject to import du ty are also subject to a customs surcharge of 15 per cent of the applicable customs duty. The Raf ida in Bank makes exchange available upon presentation of the exchange control copy of the import license, except in some instances where reference has to be made to the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require permission. Exchange is usually granted for educational and medical expenses abroad, freight on exports effected on a c. & f. basis, insurance premiums, royalties, etc. Exchange is not granted to merchants for the insurance abroad of their imports or exports. The Raf ida in Bank is per- mitted, subject to the approval of the Central Bank, to t rans fer up to 50 per cent of annual income accrued to A rab and foreign nationals resident in Iraq, unless the particular contract extends this l im it to 75 per cent. Certain nonresident private sector companies that have contracts with public institutions in Iraq are permitted to transfer the amounts provided for in those contracts. There is a basic exchange allowance for tourist travel of ID 500 a trip for each person 18 years of age or over (ID 250 for persons under 18) for trips to Arab countries, socialist countries, Iran, and Turkey, irrespec- tive of the length of stay; for subsequent trips in the same calendar year these allowances may be reduced to 50 per cent of the basic allowance for one trip. For tourist travel to other countries, the basic allowance is ID 1,000 a t r ip for each person 18 years of age (ID 500 for persons under 18 y e a r s ), irrespective of the length 221 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ of stay, and 50 per cent of the basic allocation for subsequent trips in the same calendar year. The basic exchange allowance for official travel, sub- ject to a maximum of ID 900 a trip, is ID 70 a day (ID 60 a day for jun ior off ic ia ls) for travel to Group A countries (Western European and Arab countries), and ID 60 a day (ID 50 a day for jun ior officials) for travel to Group B countries (socialist countries, Turkey, and Cyprus). Foreign exchange allocations for Iraqi students abroad are as follows: in addition to actual tuition costs, for each academic year, ID 1,800 for students in the United States, ID 1,600 for the United Kingdom, ID 1,450 for the Netherlands, ID 1,200 for Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia, and ID 900 for other A rab countries; supplementary allowances of ID 300 a year to students in Western Europe, ID 250 for those in Arab countries, and ID 100-300 for those in the U.S.S.R. are also permitted. Travelers may take out ID 5 in Iraqi currency notes, which is considered part of the basic travel allowance, and the balance of that allowance in travelers checks. Residents on pilgrimage to Saudi A rab ia are permitted to take out the equivalent of ID 500, whether they travel on their own or make arrangements through travel agents. Half of this allowance is permitted for persons under 18 years. Exchange allowances for pil- grimage are unrelated to other traveling allowances du r ing the year. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South A f r i ca and exports of certain goods to all other countries are prohibited. The Committee for the Regulation of Trade has au thor i ty to prohibit the export of any commod i ty when supply fa l ls short of domestic demand. The export of certain items is reserved for the General Organization for Exports. All other exports are licensed freely. Exporters generally must unde r take to repatriate their foreign exchange proceeds through the Raf ida in Bank and to surrender them within six months after shipment. Proceeds f rom exports of dates taken by sail- ing boats to countries of the Gulf area (excluding I r a n ), India, and Pakistan are exempt f rom these requirements when the amount does not exceed ID 600 in value or 25 tons in weight. Exports of certain goods are sub- sidized through an Export Subsidy Fund. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts in excess of ID 50 f rom invisibles must be surrendered within three months to a licensed dealer. Travelers may bring in foreign exchange, including currency notes (other than Israel cu r rency ), in unlimited amounts, provided that the funds are declared on an exchange control fo rm; amounts not intended to be taken out of the country are exempt from declaration. Travelers may bring in 222 ID 25 in Iraqi notes, and nationals of Gulf countries may bring in ID 100 in such notes. Capital Nonresidents may import capital freely, except from Israel or South A f r ica, but they must deposit it with the Rafidain Bank; such deposits may be converted into local currency at the official rate, and repa tr ia t ion to the country of origin is permitted. The t ran s fer of profits (net of income t ax) f rom foreign investments is limited to 10 per cent per annum of the paid-up cap- ital for trad ing companies, to 20 per cent of the pa id-up capital for indus tr ial companies, and to 50 per cent of total prof it for service companies. These percentages are applicable for each year separately. They also apply to profits on capital resu l t ing f rom the manda to ry rein- vestment of profits in excess of the t ran s fe rab le percent- age. A rab capital invested in Iraq is exempt f rom these percentage l im i ta t ions and interest payments are not subject to ceilings. All t ran s fe rs of cap i tal abroad by residents, whether Iraqis or foreigners, requ i re exchange control approva l. Special fac i l i t ies allow Arab investors to bring in convertible currency free ly through the Raf ida in Bank for specified investment purposes; such capital and any net profits may be t r an s f e r r ed abroad in convertible currency. Similar fac i l i t ies permit Iraqi nationals to br ing in convertible currency through the Rafidain Bank and deposit the funds in fo re ign currency accounts, balances in which are f ree ly t rans fe rab le abroad. Under the Indus tr ial Promotion Law (No. 22 of 1973), cer ta in incentives and guaran tees may be gran ted to approved investments of domestic or fore ign capital in Iraq. Under the I raq iza t ion Law of June 1961, all branches of fore ign firms and all foreign-owned firms must have a ma jo r i ty of Iraqi equ i ty cap i ta l; th is law does not cover export agencies and operations requ i r ing special skills. Foreigners (def ined as non -A rabs) cannot participate in the cap i tal of private compan ies in Iraq. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in Iraq in any fo rm other than gold bars. Impor ts and exports of gold in any f o rm requ ire the approval of the Central Bank. The Ra f ida in Bank has a monopoly over the import and domestic distribution of gold needed for indus tr ial purposes; it sells gold to registered gold- smiths only, under a quota system based on their past turnover of gold. Travelers may free ly bring gold into Iraq, provided that it is declared at the po int of en try on a foreign exchange fo rm. Changes during 1980 January 11, Foreigners (de f ined as non -A rab s) were excluded f rom participation in the capital of private companies in Iraq. April 18. Exchange and trade restrictions app ly ing to Zimbabwe ( fo rme r ly Rhodesia) were l if ted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ireland is the Irish Pound. Ireland participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, the Fed- eral Republic of Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS ). In accordance with this agreement, Ire land ma in ta ins the spot exchange rates between the Irish pound and the currencies of the other participants w i th in margins of 2.25 per cent (in the case of the I ta l ian lira, 6 per cent) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Central Bank of Ire- land stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in un l im i ted amoun ts at spe- cified intervention rates. On December 31, 1980 these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: Irish Pounds Upper limit Lower limit 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 1.71755 1.64198 100 Danish kroner 8.84854 8.45922 100 deutsche mark 27.533 26.323 100 French francs 11.6881 11.1739 100 Italian lire 0.0612801 0.0543545 100 Netherlands guilders 24.9089 23.8130 The participants in the EMS are not ma in ta in ing exchange rates for other currencies w i th in fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper functioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the intervention curren- cies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. On Decem- ber 31, 1980 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were US$1.8965 and US$1.8985, respectively, per I r < £ l. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On February 15, 1961, Ireland forma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is operated by the Central Bank. Much of the authority for approving normal payments is delegated to commercial banks authorized for this purpose. Import licenses, where necessary, are issued by the Department of Industry, Commerce, and Tour- ism if the goods are of an industrial na tu re or by the Department of Agriculture if they are agricultural in character; import licenses are also issued by the Depart- ment of Fisheries and Forestry and in some cases by the Department of Health. Import licensing is not used for exchange control purposes. Import and export controls are administered by the Revenue Commis- sioners. Prescription of Currency The adm in is tra t ion of Irish exchange control is based on the distinction between entities that are pe rmanen t ly resident in Ire land and non res iden ts, i.e., residents of other countries. The la t ter comprises two categories: (1) residents of EC member coun tr ies and (2) resi- dents of all other countries. Au tho r ized paymen ts may be made in Irish pounds or in any fo re ign currency. The proceeds of exports must be received in fore ign currency or in Irish pounds f rom an Ex ternal Account. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Irish pounds of non re s iden ts are desig- nated Ex ternal Accounts. All credits in excess of I r£ 250,000 to Ex ternal Accoun ts he ld by nonbanks require specific approval by the C en t r al Bank, except where the credit is in respect of impor ts in to Ireland. There are also limits on max imum balances in External Accounts of nonresident banks; these may be main- tained w i thout pr ior approval of the Cen tral Bank. External Accounts may be credited w i th paymen ts that are eligible for t ran s fer abroad under a general or spe- cific exchange control approva l, t ran s fe rs f rom other External Accounts, paymen ts for any fo re ign currencies purchased from account holders, the proceeds of Irish currency notes in denom ina t ions not exceeding I r<£20, payments f rom w i th in the state up to I r<£100 in value, and interest payable on the accounts; they may be debited for t rans fe rs to residents, t rans fe rs to other External Accounts, the cost of any fore ign currency sold to account holders, the t r a n s f er of any part of account balances to account holders, and bank charges, if applicable. Authorized banks may operate fo re ign currency accounts in the names of nonresidents in any foreign currency; these accounts are subject to the same requirements as External Accounts. Authorized banks may also operate fore ign currency accounts in the names of residents under specific Cen tral Bank approval. Imports and Import Payments The import of certain goods in to Ireland is subject to four types of adm in is t ra t ive control, as fo l lows: Quantitative Restriction. Special quota restrictions apply to (1) bicycle tires f rom countries other than member coun tr ies of the O rgan iza t ion for Economic Cooperation and Development and Japan; (2) certain textile produc ts originating in the state t rad ing coun- tries; ( 3) automobile tires f rom the German Demo- cratic Republic; (4) foo twear f rom Czechoslovakia and Taiwan, and ( 5) certain sacks and bags other than of wool, cotton, and man-made fibers (ma in ly ju te bags originating in Hong Kong, India, Japan, Macao, Malay- 223 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND sia, Pakistan, Taiwan, the state trading countries, and Yugoslavia). Autonomous import restrictions have been imposed by the EC on certain textiles f rom Taiwan. Voluntary Restraint. The EC has negotiated bilateral restraint agreements with various supplying countries on trade in textiles under which import quotas are set each year for d ifferent products. Ireland has a volun- tary restraint agreement with Poland and Korea in regard to certain footwear. Surveillance. Ireland operates a na t ional system of import surveillance over certain foo twea r, certain cloth- ing, textiles, and twine and cordage f rom non-EC sources. Prior Permission. Under this type of control, prior permission of the Central Bank is required before orders may be placed for goods if they are not to be used in Ireland or are to be delivered more than nine months after the date of the order. Goods not for use in Ireland must, in general, be paid for with borrowed foreign currency. Special import restrictions apply in regard to motor vehicles. Imports from non-EC countries of products covered by the Common Agr icu l tural Policy of the EC may be subject to various charges such as levies and monetary compensatory amounts under that policy and to duties under the common customs t a r i f f. For permitted imports, appropriate exchange or permission to credit Irish pounds to an External Account is gran ted auto- matically. Au thor i ty to make payments is delegated to authorized dealers. Exchange control fo rms are required for import payments exceeding I r<£ 10,000. Payments for Invisibles Payments to nonresidents requ ire approval. Approval to make payments for most invisibles is delegated to the authorized banks; for other invisibles, it is given by the Central Bank. For tourist travel there is a basic allowance for resi- dents of Ireland of Ir<£500 a person for each trip, or where the trip exceeds two mon ths, I r£ 2,000. For business travel, up to Ir£3,000 at a rate of I r<£100 a day is allowed for each journey. Limits are also estab- lished for allowances for education and other purposes. Applications for larger amounts are approved, provided that no unauthorized export of capital is involved. Not more than Ir«£500 of an allowance of foreign currency may be issued in the form of currency notes. Residents may also take with them up to I r<£100 in Irish cur- rency notes. Nonresidents may take with them any foreign currency not$s that they brought in to Ireland. Exports and Export Proceeds A system of export licensing is applied to a limited range of goods. Exporters of goods must obtain pay- ment for the goods within six months of shipment, if their va lue exceeds I r<£ 100. When payment is received in foreign currencies, the exchange must be offered for 224 sale to an authorized bank. Exchange control forms are required for exports exceeding I r£ 10,000 and must be produced to Irish customs at the point of exporta- tion. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no specific requirements governing exchange receipts from invisibles, but if foreign currencies are received they must be offered for sale to an authorized bank or permission for their retention must be obtained. Any foreign currency held by a person after his return from a trip abroad may be retained for subsequent travel purposes for three months from the date he received the exchange. There are no limitations on the import of Irish or foreign banknotes, but prior Central Bank approval must be obtained to credit Irish bank- notes in denominations exceeding I r<£20 to External Accounts. Capital Exchange control approval is required for all transfers of capital to nonresidents. Authority to make certain payments has been delegated to authorized dealers; other payments require Central Bank approval. The normal allowance available to Irish residents on emigration is Ir<£ 40,000 for each family. Where the total value of an emigrant's asset exceeds Ir<£ 40,000, the transfer of the excess amount is restricted for a period of four years from the emigrant's redesignation as a nonresident, i.e., from the date of departure f rom Ireland; however, dur- ing this four-year period, income on restricted assets may be transferred abroad. After the four-year period, the balance of restricted assets may be freely exported with- out limit. For Irish residents taking up permanent resi- dence in an EC country, including people taking up employment, applications to transfer Irish assets to the new country of residence in excess of the normal allow- ances are considered. There are no restrictions on the inflow of capital, but inward direct investment requires exchange control approval. Purchases of unquoted Irish securities by nonresidents require exchange control approval, and the purchase of nonurban land by foreign nationals in some cases requires approval by the Land Commission. Incoming capital received in foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. The Central Bank considers applications by Irish resi- dents for permission to purchase property for personal use in a member country of the EC with foreign cur- rency purchased at the official rate of exchange. The acquisition of personal property outside the EC may be financed only by foreign currency borrowing, which is approved by the Central Bank on application, subject to a limit of Ir<£ 20,000 a property and one property for each family unit. Borrowings may be repaid with official foreign exchange in equal annual installments over a period of not less than five years. The entire foreign currency proceeds f rom the sale of property outside Ire- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution land purchased for personal use of a resident must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. Transactions in foreign currency securities are con- trolled to ensure that, in general, capital is not trans- ferred outside Ireland. All such transactions must be routed through an approved agent (an Irish bank, stock- broker, or solicitor). Resident holdings of all foreign currency securities may be sold only to nonresidents. Where such securities are sold, the proceeds must either be reinvested in foreign securities or be offered for sale to an authorized dealer within three months. During that three-month period, in the absence of the specific approval of the Central Bank, the proceeds must be held under the control of an approved agent. Purchases of foreign currency securities, apart from switches referred to above, are prohibited. The Central Bank may, how- ever, approve applications by authorized insurers and pension funds for the export of a limited amount of funds at the current rate of exchange for investment in foreign currency securities. Foreign currency borrowing by institutional investors and professional portfolio man- agers for portfolio investment abroad may also be approved in some cases. The Central Bank will grant permission for investment at the current rate of exchange in securities issued by the EC, the European Investment Bank, the European Coal and Steel Community, and the European Atomic Energy Community. Direct investment abroad requires prior approval and may normally be financed by borrowing foreign cur- rency; in certain cases the use of official exchange may be approved, depending on the merits of the project. Use of official exchange is allowed, however, for all approved new direct investments by Irish residents in EC member countries. Purchases by nonresidents of Irish registered securi- ties must be funded with foreign currency or Irish pounds from an External Account; purchases in excess of Ir£ 5,000 must be notified to the Central Bank. Remittances of cash gifts or personal loans are nor- mally permitted up to Ir<£ 1,500 a donor a calendar year. Applications by Irish residents to make cash gifts to EC residents, in excess of the normal allowance, are considered. Residents require prior exchange control approval (1) to accept loans from nonresidents, irrespective of the currency of such loans, and (2) to accept loans in foreign currency from any source; such applications are considered on their merits and, except as regards bor- rowing for the acquisition of property for personal use, on the benefit likely to accrue to the economy. Public IRELAND sector borrowing from nonresidents is under taken fol- lowing consultation with the Central Bank. Lending of Irish currency to nonresidents is not normally permitted, except to the extent that overdraft facilities may be pro- vided by the banks to members of diplomatic and con- sular missions in Ireland. Provided that the company is not a channel for portfolio investment, a subsidiary or branch of a company controlled directly by interests in EC countries may obtain from Irish banks, subject to exchange control approval, all the finance it requires for its operation in Ireland. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, borrow, sell, or lend gold coin in Ireland. Dealings in gold bullion are restricted, and no dealings take place in Ireland. Although there are no import restrictions, residents require specific exchange control permission to purchase gold coin or bu l l ion outside I re land. Specific exchange control perm iss ion also is requ ired for the export of gold coin and bu l l ion outside I re land. Specific permis- sion to buy or export gold coin or bullion norma l ly is given only for bona fide num i sm a t ic or indus tr ial pur- poses, respectively. Residents of Ireland are not per- mitted to hold gold abroad. Changes during 1980 January 10. Following the l i f t ing of sanctions against Zimbabwe ( fo rme r ly Rhodes ia ), the special exchange control regulations for that coun t ry were revoked, thereby placing transactions with Zimbabwe (or in Zimbabwe cu r rency) in the same category, from an exchange control point of view, as transactions with non-EC countries generally; trade restrictions applic- able to Zimbabwe were revoked with effect from Janu- ary 29. May 22. The Minister for Industry, Commerce, and Tourism and the Minister for Agriculture issued orders imposing control on exports to Iran of industrial and agr icu l tural goods, with the exception of ( 1) foods tu f fs, beverages, and fishery products; (2) medicine; and ( 3) supplies intended strictly for medical purposes. Where contracts were placed w i th importers in Iran prior to this date for goods not exempt f rom the con- trol, export licenses would be granted. (These orders were revoked with effect from January 23, 1981, from which date exports to Iran became subject to normal export controls.) November 27. The Central Bank announced that, with effect from this date, it would cease to be the dominant market maker in the forward exchange market. 225 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Israel is the Shekel. The authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange trans- actions, and exchange rates are determined largely on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange markets. However, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to smooth out fluctuations in rates and to maintain orderly conditions in the market. Authorized banks are permitted to deal in foreign exchange with residents and with their correspondents in foreign markets. At the end of the trad ing day the Bank of Israel publishes an average of the quotations of the day as a representative rate. On December 31, 1980 the representative rate for the U.S. dollar was IS 7.548 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is the responsibility of the Controller of Foreign Exchange and is administered by the Bank of Israel, in cooperation with other government agencies, and is carried out through authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected in the cur- rency and manner prescribed by the exchange control authorities. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents' funds are held either in fore ign cur- rency accounts or in local currency accounts. The opening of nonresident foreign currency accounts does not require prior approval. The holder may freely effect transfers from his foreign currency account. He may also convert funds held on the account into local cur- rency at the market rate of exchange. There are no restrictions on the opening by a non- resident of a local currency account; such funds may be used locally in permitted transactions, including trans- fers between nonresidents. Nonresident holders of local currency may convert at the market rate of exchange up to US$3,000 for each visit to Israel, which may be transferred abroad, together with an amount of local currency not exceeding IS 500. This is additional to the repurchase of foreign currency brought in by the non- resident traveler for his current visit. The sales pro- ceeds of real estate and other investments may be transferred in their entirety if the original investment was made through an authorized dealer with foreign currency or State of Israel Development Loan bonds. Resident Accounts in Foreign Currency Residents may maintain foreign currency deposits with authorized banks in Israel on either (1) PATAM 226 accounts, which may be held by all recipients of foreign currency or foreign currency acquired from a bank or (2) PATAM-Restitution accounts, which may be held by recipients of restitution payments and certain disability pensions. PATAM accounts are demand or time deposit accounts in foreign currency placed with authorized banks, which must redeposit, respectively, 90 per cent or 80 per cent of the fore ign currency funds with the Bank of Israel. Balances in these accounts may be used to pay for any bona fide international current transaction. PATAM-Restitution accounts also are demand or time deposit accounts in convertible currencies with author- ized banks, which must redeposit all of these foreign cur- rency f u n ds with the Bank of Israel. Funds deposited in restitution accounts are f ree of taxation. PATAM- Res t i tu t ion accounts are permitted to be used up to a limit of US$1,800 for payment of expenses in connec- tion with travel and subsistence abroad in excess of the basic travel exchange allocation. Holders of PATAM- Restitution accounts may resell securities bought with funds in such accounts for foreign currency and may deposit the proceeds in a PATAM-Restitution account. Residents who are not holders of PATAM-Restitution accounts may deposit the foreign exchange proceeds from the sale of foreign securities in PATAM accounts. Imports and Import Payments A few imports are prohibited f rom all sources. Almost all imports are free of licensing and administrative or quan t i ta t ive restrictions. A few imports on a Restricted List are subject to approval; this list includes some meat and dairy products, sugar, and tobacco. Oilseeds are imported exclusively by or for account of the Govern- ment. Exchange to pay for authorized imports is granted automatically by the banks upon presentation of proof of the import transaction. A value-added tax is levied on almost all imported and domestically pro- duced goods, other than capital goods and travel tickets. Payments for Invisibles Exchange for payments abroad on account of invisi- bles is provided automatically upon proof of the na tu re of the transaction. The exchange allowance for tourist travel is the equivalent of US$3,000 a traveler for each journey. Foreign currency drawings by means of credit cards are included in this allowance. Resident travelers may take out part or all of the travel allowance in Israel banknotes. Nonresident travelers leaving Israel are permitted to repurchase through authorized dealers foreign currency up to US$3,000 and may also take out up to IS 500 in Israel banknotes. This is in addition to the repurchase of foreign currency brought in by the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution nonresident traveler during his current visit. Com- mercial banks are authorized to sell abroad unlimited amounts of Israel currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports do not require licenses, although for some commodities export licensing is retained for qual- ity control. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be surrendered or held in a PATAM account. Exporters may retain in a bank deposit abroad or in a special exporter account in Israel an amount equivalent to 10 per cent of their turnover in the preceding .year. For inputs directly imported by an exporter there is a system of rebates of customs duties, wharf charges, etc. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds f rom invisibles must, in general, be surrendered or kept in foreign exchange in PATAM accounts. Any resident is f ree to accept specified con- vertible currencies from tourists in payment for cus- tomary tourist services and commodities other than com- mercial exports, securities, and real estate. For 20 years af ter entering Israel, new immigrants are exempt f rom the requ irement to surrender the ir foreign exchange to the Treasury, and they may hold these foreign currencies f ree ly with authorized banks in Israel or with banks abroad. There are no limits to the amoun ts of Israel banknotes or foreign currency that may be brought in by travelers. Capital Foreign exchange brought in to Israel for the purpose of investment in the fo rm of loan and equ i ty capital may, subject to approval, be granted preferen t ial treat- ment in accordance with the Law for the Encourage- ment of Capital Investment, which grants a l im i ted with- holding tax of 25 per cent on income resulting from these investments. Approved investments (loan and equity) are granted exemption f rom the compulsory deposit requirement and nega t ive in te rest rate. Approvals granted under the law are classified as "approved enter- prises," "approved investments," or "approved loans." Approved enterprise s ta tus is g ran ted to enterprises in selected fields of production that are ( 1) in the fields of indus try, tourism, t ranspo r ta t ion, and agriculture; (2) established in priority areas; or (3) export or ien ted or in the field of import subs t i tu t ion in some specific lines of production. Approved inves tment or approved loan status may be g ran ted to any en terpr ise in the above- mentioned sectors; however, loans may only be share- holders' loans. The period of the loan should not be less than seven years and the rate of interest not more than 9 per cent. Beginning in December 1978, a series of measures was adopted restricting the right of resi- dents to receive credits in foreign currency. Since April 1979, direct foreign currency borrowings abroad by nonbank res iden ts, except suppliers' credits, have been ISRAEL subject to a compulsory deposit requirement of 30 per cent of the value of the loan. A negative interest charge of 4.5 per cent is collected on the outstanding balance of such deposits. Since November 1979 a freeze has been in effect on all such direct foreign borrowing by nonbank residents. Nonbank residents may, however, contract loans in foreign currencies f rom resident banks subject to an interest surcharge of 9 per cent. Proceeds accruing from the repatriation or liquida- tion of fore ign assets are treated in the same way as other proceeds in fore ign currency. Residents are not normally permitted to retain abroad real estate, money, securities, or the income f r om these assets. Resident exporters and a ir l ine and sh ipp ing .companies may maintain fo re ign bank accounts. In add i t ion, residents traveling abroad may ma in ta in limited sums in foreign accounts. New imm ig ran ts may retain the ir foreign assets for 20 years. Transfers abroad of a capital n a tu re by residents other than new imm ig r an ts are generally not perm i t ted. Nonresidents are pe rm i t ted to purchase in Israel real estate, shares, and deben tu res. In order to repa tr ia te the principal or prof i ts on these investments, proof is required by an authorized dealer that they were pur- chased with foreign currency. Direct loans in any form to nonresidents are sub ject to l icens ing. Gold Under the regu la t ions concern ing the purchase, sale, and holding of gold, there are f o ur categories of gold for various purposes, as follows: (1) Bu l l ion for industry may be imported by an impor ter holding an import license. (2) Bu l l ion for inves tmen t, or certificates con- ferr ing a right to gold bu l l ion, may be bought or sold only through authorized dealers and must be held in a gold custody account w i th an au thor ized dealer. (3) The following bu l l ion coins are at present included in a list of gold coins for inv e s tm en t: (a) K ruge r rands of South Africa; (b) 50 dollar Maple Leafs of Canada; (c) 50 pesos of Mexico; (d) 100 corona and 4 dukat coins of Austria; (e) sovereigns of Great B r i ta in; (f) 10 dollar and 20 dollar Liberty coins of the United States; and (g) 20 f r anc Napoleon coins of France. These coins may be bought or sold through authorized dealers and must be held in a gold custody account with an author- ized dealer. (4) Other gold coins and medallions may be bought, sold, or held by an Israeli resident without restriction. These coins may be imported and exported in the same manner as other goods. Changes during 1980 February 22. It was announced that a new national currency, the shekel, wou ld replace the Israel pound at the rate of IS 1 — I <£ 10. The changeover was made gradually over the period end ing October 1. February 25. The amount of foreign exchange that residents were authorized to hold in the fo rm of cash 227 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL was reduced to US$500; the balance from the previous limit of US$3,000 was required to be held in travelers checks or bank checks. Bank transfers of non-Israeli currency by residents within the country were made illegal. April 18. Exchange and trade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe (formerly Rhodesia) were lifted. April 20. The coverage of the advance import deposit requirement was modified to exempt products originating outside the EC which would have been exempted from customs duties (and thus from the deposit requirement) had they originated within the EC. May 20. The advance import deposit requirement was extended for a fu r ther six months to November 20. July 7. The definition of gold coins for investment was expanded to include the following: (1) sovereigns of Great Britain bearing the likeness of Queen Victoria, King Edward VII, King George V, and King George VI; (2) 10 do l i iar and 20 dollar L iber ty coins of the Un i ted States; (3) 4 dukat coins of Austria; and (4) 20 f ranc Napoleon coins of France. November 20. The advance import deposit require- ment was abolished. December 1. The interest surcharge on foreign cur- rency borrowings by nonbank residents f rom Israeli banks was lowered f rom 12 per cent to 9 per cent. The negative interest rate collected on the required deposit of 30 per cent on all direct foreign borrowings by non- bank residents was also lowered from 17 per cent to 4.5 per cent. 228 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Italy is the Italian Lira. Italy partici- pates with Belgium, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS ). In accordance with this agreement, Italy ma in ta ins spot exchange rates between the Italian lira and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 6 per cent above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Bank of Italy (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1980 these rates were as follows:l Specified Intervention Rates Per: Belgian or Luxembourg f ranc Danish krone deutsche mark French franc Irish pound Netherlands guilder Italian Lire Upper limit Lower limit 30.8961 159.171 495.287 210.252 1,839.78 448.074 27.4044 141.182 439.312 186.490 1,631.85 397.434 The participants in the EMS are not ma in ta in ing the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper func t ion ing of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the in terven t ion cur- rencies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. Official rates for 16 foreign currenc ies2 are quoted daily on the basis of market rates.3 On December 31, 1980 the rate for the U.S. dollar was Lit 930.50 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Different exchange rates arise for outward transfers of resident-owned capital, for the large ma jor i ty of which a deposit in lire of 50 per cent must be lodged with the Bank of Italy. Out- ward direct investment and cer ta in types of por tfo l io investment are, however, normally exempt f rom the deposit requirement. The monetary authorities do not, in principle, intervene in the forward exchange ma rke t; forward premiums and discounts are norma l ly le ft to the iQn March 23, 1981 the central rates of the lira were revised downward by 6 per cent. 2 Currencies officially quoted are Au s t r ian schillings, Be lg ian f rancs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche m a r k, French f ranc s, Irish pounds, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish k rono r, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. dollars. 3 The official rate is the average of the "fixing" quo ta t ions of the fore ign exchange markets in Milan and Rome. in the EMS interplay of market forces. Authorized banks are allowed to engage in spot exchange transactions in any currency, and in forward exchange transactions up to 360 days in ma jor convertible and externally con- vertible currencies,4 when dealing with other banks, or up to 180 days when dealing with nonbanks. Forward cover is freely permitted only for commercial trans- actions; cover in respect of f inanc ial transactions requires au thor iza t ion. Italy forma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the Italian Exchange Office (U f f ic io Italiano dei Cambi or UIC) on the basis of instructions issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. All sales and purchases of exchange must be effected through banks authorized for this purpose. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the M in is try of Finance at the request of the M in i s t ry of Foreign Trade. Certain imports and exports require the prior visa of the National Foreign Trade Institute. Issues of securities by nonresidents require the prior approval of the M in i s t ry of Foreign Trade and are subject in addition to the rules governing the issuing of Italian securities in Italy. Payments to and f rom the Republic of San Mar ino or Vatican City are not subject to exchange control. The net external position x>f the banks is subject to control by the UIC. This control encompasses (1) the net fore ign position in foreign currencies and lire together; and (2) the overall position, spot and forward comb ined, in all foreign currencies; a balanced fore ign currency position on a daily basis is required separately in (a) U.S. dollars, (b) EC currencies, and (c) all other conto valutario currencies combined. Authorized banks are not subject to any ceiling on their net fo re ign l iab i l i ty p o s i t i on but a re p roh ib i t ed f rom m a i n t a i n i ng a net fo re ign asset position; in add i t ion, ou ts tand ing net fo rwa rd t ransac t ions against l i re are subject to a ceiling set ind iv idu a l ly for each bank. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th fore ign countries mu st norma l ly be made in convertible currencies or in lire on Foreign Accounts. For settlements with Egypt, there are special a r rangemen ts under a debt l iqu ida t ion agreement. Nonresident Accounts The m a in types of accoun ts in I ta l ian lire which non res iden ts are allowed to m a i n t a in w i th authorized 4 These currenc ies are re fe r red to in the I ta l ian regu la t ions as the conto valutario currencies. 229 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY banks are Foreign Accounts and Capital Accounts.5 The use of these accounts, and of Special Accounts for certain investments, is described below. Foreign Accounts may be credited with transfers from other Foreign Accounts, f rom Capital Accounts, and from Special Accounts Under Law No. 43, with lire from authorized current and capital payments, and with the proceeds from sales of convertible currencies.6 They may be debited for purchases of any of these currencies in the ordinary marke t, for t rans fe rs to any other Foreign Account, Capital Account, or Special Account for payments to residents of Italy for current and capital transactions, for payments due to residents on account of their disinvestments abroad, and for draw- ings in cash by the holder of the account or his nom inee. Capital Accounts may be credited with t rans fe rs f rom Foreign Accounts, from Special Accounts, and f rom other Capital Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom the liquidation of foreign investments in Italy not made under the provisions of Law No. 211 or Law No. 43 (see be low ). Capital Accounts may be debited for transfers to any other Capital Account or to Foreign Accounts, and for the purchase of investments not made under Law No. 43, including purchases of personal property or real estate in Italy. Special Accounts Under Law No. 43 of February 7, 7956 are accounts in the names of nonresidents who have invested in Italy convertible currencies or exter- nally convertible European currencies in accordance with the above-mentioned law. These accounts may be credited with the countervalue of convertible currencies sold in Italy, with transfers from Foreign Accounts, or f rom other Special Accounts, and w i th the proceeds from sales of investments that have been made in accordance with Law No. 43. They may be debited for purchases of the same currency that was originally sold and for investments in Italy, and balances may be transferred to Foreign Accounts, Capital Accounts, or any other Special Account. Imports and Import Payments Imports are governed by a Ministerial Decree of May 6, 1976. The import regulations vary with the country of origin. Countries are grouped in three ma jor areas: Zone A, which is subdivided into subzones A /1 (EC countries, Guadeloupe, French Gu iana, Martinique, and Reun ion ), A /2 (overseas countries and territories, 5 Italians living or work ing abroad are pe rm i t ted to m a i n t a in w i th Italian banks Emigrants' Foreign Cu r rency Accoun ts denom ina ted in conto valutario currencies. They may be cred i ted w i th rem i t tances (including banknotes) sent direct to the bank f r om abroad (up to 80 per cent of the holder's wage or salary e a r n i n g s) and w i th in te rest on the balance; they may be debited f ree ly for conversion in to l i r e, for withdrawals in foreign banknotes (up to Lit 100,000, for r e t u rn tr ips ab road ), and for transfers abroad (except for accounts held by "border-area workers"). These accounts may also be held by I ta l ian representatives abroad and by Italian s ta ff emp loyed by i n t e r n a t i o n al organizations. 6 The banks' power to credit foreign banknotes and credit ins t ru- ments expressed in fore ign currency without prior authorization is limited to Lit 1 million in a ca lendar year for bankno tes and c red it instruments not remitted to the banks direct f rom abroad. 230 member countries of the European Free Trade Associa- tion, and other countries associated w i th the EC ), and A /3 ( th i rd coun t r i e s ); Zone B, which comprises member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assist- ance (CMEA ), A lban ia, the People's Republic of Ch ina, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea; and Zone C ( J a p a n ). The import control procedures dis- t ingu ish between goods that may be free ly imported w i thout q u a n t i t a t i ve restriction and goods that require a special license. Import l ibe ra l iza t ion is v i r tu a l ly com- plete for subzones A /1 and A / 2, wh i le very few quan t i- ta t ive restrictions rema in for subzone A / 3. Many types of goods f rom Zones B and C are heavily restricted. For impor ts f rom countries in Zone B, as well as Egypt and Yugoslavia, the coun t ry of o r ig in must also be the coun t ry of sh ipmen t. Impor ts f rom non-EC countries of most products covered by the Common Ag r icu l tu ral Policy of the EC are subject to va r iab le impo rt levies that have replaced all p rev ious ba r r ie rs to imports. Common EC regula- tions are also applied to impor ts f rom non-EC coun tr ies of most o ther a g r i c u l t u r al and l ives tock p rodu c t s. For impo r ts not exceed ing L it 1 m i l l i on in v a lu e, no exchange control fo rm is requ ired; for impo r ts f rom Lit 1 m i l l i on to Lit 2 m i l l ion in value, a fo rm completed by the impo r ter is requ i red; for impor ts over Lit 2 m i l- l ion in va lue an impo rt document completed by an au tho r ized b ank is requ i red. Where se t t lement takes p lace more th an 360 days a f t er impo r t a t ion, the impo r t er must choose an au tho r ized bank as his bank of dom ic i le, th rough wh ich he must ca r ry out all paymen ts opera- t ions. Deferred paymen ts for impo r ts a re pe rm i t ted f r e e ly if se t t lement is to take place, to the extent of at least 90 per cent, w i t h in 360 days a f ter impo r ta t ion, and the ba lance w i th in 24 mon ths a f t er im p o r t a t i o n; such paymen ts requ ire the p r ior approval of the UIC if the se t t lement is to take place between 12 mon ths and 24 mon ths a f t er impo r t a t ion. In all other cases, the pr ior approval of the M in i s t ry of Foreign Trade is requ i red; where, accord ing to the con trac t, se t t lement is to take place more than 360 days a f ter the da te of im p o r t a t i o n, the approval of the UIC (in some cases the M i n i s t ry of Foreign Trade) is requ ired to make the payment p r ior to the due da te set in the contract. Advance pay- men ts for impor ts requ i re special app roval when they are to take place more t h an 120 days before impo r ta t ion. Advance paymen ts in excess of Lit 2 m i l l i on must be made w i th fo re ign cu r rency borrowed f rom au tho r ized bank s. When p repaymen ts for impo r ts exceed Lit 10 m i l l i o n, an advance deposit of 5 per cent is r e q u i r e d. For a ll au thor ized impo r t s, the au tho r ized banks pro- vide exchange or pe rm it payment in I t a l i an l i re to a Foreign Accoun t, prov ided that app rop r i a te payment terms are observed (see section on C ap i t a l, be low ). In t e rn a t ion al postal money orders may be used for import payments, subject, in the case of payments to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Switzerland, to a limit of Lit 30,000 for each r em i t t er and foreign beneficiary. Payments for Invisibles In principle, payments abroad for invisibles require authorization by the exchange control authorities. How- ever, the authorized banks may sell foreign exchange for payments for invisibles provided that the necessary documents are submitted, except for tourist travel and travel for business, study, or health reasons; their authority to sell exchange for fam i ly remittances is limited to Lit 35,000 a transfer. Exchange is granted freely for remittances of earnings or inves tmen ts. Resi- dents may use international postal money orders for payments, subject, in the case of paymen ts to Switzer- land, to a limit of Lit 30,000 for each rem i t ter and foreign beneficiary. Certain transactions (but not the related paymen ts) in respect of services are subject to approval by the Ministry of Foreign Trade or the M in i s t ry of Indus try. These transactions can be divided into two groups: (1) contracts which require a pe rm it if they involve residents of specified coun tr ies7 and (2) contracts which require a perm it regardless of the n a t ion a l i ty of the nonresidents involved. The first group includes t rans- actions giving rise to expenditures for cha r te r ing ships (excluding charters for a single t r i p ); repairs to ships which are not urgent and not necessary for safety of operation; news agencies and newspaper corresponden ts ( for amoun ts exceeding Lit 5 m i l l ion a mon th for the same payee); purchases of pub l ica t ion rights; in fo rm a- tion agencies, etc. ( for amoun ts exceeding Lit 5 m i l l ion for each con t rac t ); copyrights ( for amoun ts exceeding Lit 5 m i l l ion a year for each con t r a c t ); services of pro- fessional workers and company managers ( f or amoun ts exceeding Lit 5 m i l l ion ); and services of en ter ta iners and athletes ( for amoun ts exceeding Lit 5 m i l l i o n ). The second group includes transactions g iv ing rise to expend i- tures for production abroad of films, u t i l iza t ion of films, scripts, synchronization, etc.; collaboration in c inema- tography; insurance of ships and a i r c r a ft aga inst risks of opera t ion ;8 and other transac t ions when the amoun ts involved exceed Lit 1 million. Residents traveling to foreign countries may obtain from the banks exchange equivalent to Lit 1,100,000 a person a year for tourism, business, medical t rea tmen t, and education (the corresponding amount for group travel also is Lit 1,100,000); authorized banks g rant foreign exchange above these allowances (except for tou r i sm ), provided that they are satisfied that th is is justified in view of the du ra t ion and purpose of the trip. The l im it on the amount of I ta l ian bankno tes 7 Albania, Bhu tan, Bulgaria, People's Republic of Ch ina ( i n c l u d i ng Mongolia), Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Ge rman Democratic Republic, Hunga ry, Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea, Poland, Roman ia, U.S.S.R., Viet Nam, and ( f or cha r te r ing ships only) Yugoslavia. 8 Such transactions need authorization by the M in is try of Indus t ry. ITALY that can be taken out is Lit 200,000. ° Nonres ident travelers may take out any amount in foreign banknotes that they have previously declared upon en t ry, subject to a limit of the equivalent of Lit 200,000 a person if an oral dec lara t ion is made, as well as Lit 200,000 in I ta l ian banknotes. However, the export of I t a l i an bank- notes in denom ina t ions larger than Lit 50,000 is pro- hibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to any coun t ry of a few commod i t ies in a special list (Tabella Esport) requ ire export licenses. For exports not exceeding Lit 1 m i l l ion in va lue, no exchange con trol fo rm is requ i red; for expor ts f rom Lit 1 m i l l ion to Lit 2 m i l l ion in va lue, a f o rm comp le ted by the expor ter is requ ired; for expor ts exceed ing Lit 2 m i l l i on in va lue, an expo rt do cum ent comp le ted by an au thor ized b ank is requ i red. If settlement takes p lace more than 360 days before expo r ta t ion or more than 120 days a f ter expo r ta t ion, the exporter must effect the p aym en ts opera t ions related to h is export t ran sac t ions t h r o u gh an a u t h o r i z ed b a nk as h is b a nk of d om i c i l e. Advance p aym en ts for expor ts may be received f ree ly if expo r ta t ion is to take place w i th in 360 days; in all o ther cases such rece ip ts r e q u i re the p r ior app roval of the UIC. Deferred payments for exports are pe rm i t ted if se t t lement is to take place to the ex tent of at least 90 per cent w i t h in 120 days a f t er expo r ta t ion, and the ba lance w i t h in 24 mon ths. For se t t lemen ts between 120 and 360 days a f ter expo r t a t ion, the app roval of the UIC is r equ i r ed. In all o ther cases such receipts r e q u i re the p r ior app roval e i ther of the M in i s t ry of Fo re ign Trade or of the A u t o n om o us Section for Expo rt C red i ts ( S A C E ), depend ing on whe ther the m a x im um de lay g ran ted to the fo re ign impo r t er is longer or sho r t er t h an f ive years, and on wh e th er the t r a n s a c t i on w i ll be covered by state insu rance. Unless spec ial approval is ob ta ined for d i f f e r e nt te rms of p aym en t, 90 per cent of exchange receipts mu st be collected w i t h in 120 days of s h i pm e nt and o f fe red for sale to an au tho r ized b ank w i t h in 7 days of rece ip t, w h i 'e 10 per cent mu st be collected w i t h in 24 m o n t hs of s h i pm e n t. Proceeds in U.S. dollars, C a n a d i an do l la rs, Japanese yen, and ex te rna l ly conver t ib le Eu ropean cur- renc ies may be retained by au tho r ized b a n ks on beha lf of the rec ip ien ts in O r d i n a ry Foreign Cu r r en cy Accoun ts (Conti Valutari Ordinari) for 15 days, d u r i ng wh ich per iod such ba lances may be used for pe rm i t ted t ran s- ac t ions or be sold to au tho r ized bank s; the banks are allowed to sell these currenc ies to res iden ts for au tho r- ized t ran sac t ions or to nego t ia te t h em free ly w i th the UIC or among themselves. A f t er exp i r a t ion of the re ten t ion period, unused balances must be sold to the UIC at the lowest exchange ra te quo ted d u r i ng the 9 Persons l i v i ng in bo rder areas may not take out mo re t h an Lit 35,000 a day in fo r e ign and domes t ic bankno tes and co in comb ined, of which fo re ign notes and coin mu st not exceed the e q u i v a l e nt of Lit 15,000. 231 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY retention period (these rates are determined daily on the basis of the average closing rates in Milan and Rome). Export proceeds may also be received by international postal money order, up to Lit 600,000 for each paymen t, and in certain circumstances, in foreign banknotes that are accepted in the country of issue for credit to bank accounts, balances in which are convertible at official market rates. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from current invisibles are subject to the same collection, retention, and surrender requirements as receipts from exports. Shipping ^and insurance com- panies and travel and forward ing agencies may keep Operating Accounts (Conti Autorizzati) in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, and externally con- vertible European currencies; unutilized balances must be surrendered periodically. Residents may not retain foreign banknotes left over from trips abroad but must sell them to an authorized bank. Persons may b r ing in any amount in foreign bankno tes and Lit 200,000 in Italian banknotes, in denominations not larger than Lit 50,000. Capital Inward and outward movements of nonresident capital are free, but loans of any kind f rom nonresidents to residents and from residents to nonresidents require specific authorization from the Ministry of the Treasury or the Ministry of Foreign Trade, respectively; however, as exceptions, long-term loans (other than loans f rom financial institutions to nonresidents) from member countries of the Organization for Economic Coopera- tion and Development (OECD) for establishing or ma in ta in ing las t ing economic relations, and loans to relatives up to the third degree of relationship do not require authorization. Short-term loans (up to one year and not exceeding Lit 250 m i l l ion) and m ed ium- term (up to five years and not exceeding Lit 250 m i l l ion) financial loans (i.e., loans not connected w i th commercial operations or the performance of services) from EC countries also do not require authorization. Repayment of such loans may be made freely. A deposit requirement applies to outward transfers of resident-owned capital for direct investments, port- folio investments, financial loans, purchases of real estate, and personal capital movements. The trans- feror must lodge a lira deposit equivalent to 50 per cent of the amount transferred (25 per cent for investment fund securities, but mutual funds investing entirely in Italian securities are exempt) in a noninterest-bearing account with the bank effecting the transfer. In addi- tion, when foreign investments are transferred between residents against lire, the transferee is subject to the deposit requirement, regardless of the date when the investment was made. The deposits are released only when, and to the extent that, disinvestment operations occur, and their release requires the prior approval of 232 the Bank of Italy. Reinvestments of funds in new issues or on the secondary market are exempt if the original investment was made prior to July 27, 1973. Purchases by residents of certain bonds issued by specified EC ins t i tu t ions are also exempt. Ou tward direct investment transactions have f rom time to time been given an ad hoc exemption. Foreign investment in Italy is, in principle, governed by Law No. 43 and subsequent implementing regulations. Foreign investments of any kind, inc lud ing both direct and portfolio investment and the purchase of real estate, are perm i t ted freely, and no restrictions are applied to the ir repatriation. Direct investment in OECD countries by physical or ju r id i c al persons (o ther than participation by a financial in s t i tu t ion that has its m a in office in Italy in a foreign company not hav ing the same corporate purpose) is pe rm i t ted in any fo rm and w i thout any l im i t .10 Direct investment in other countries may be made only by ju r id i c al persons in firms that are in the same line of business as that of the Italian firm mak ing the invest- ment and under the supervision of the UIC; other types of direct inves tment in such countries require special au thor iza t ion f rom the Ministry of Foreign Trade. The general license to make these investments also covers the re inves tment of earnings and the use for this purpose of the l iqu ida t ion proceeds of prev ious investments (a f ter c red i t ing the proceeds of the disinvestment to bank accounts s im i lar to those established for proceeds f rom exports and invisibles; see section on Proceeds f rom Invisibles, above). Residents are free to buy and sell, through the Bank of Italy or the authorized banks, any foreign securities issued or payable abroad and quoted on foreign stock exchanges, and to deal in such securities among them- selves against payment in lire. Such foreign securities, except securities of Lit 100,000 or less, have to be deposited with an I ta l ian bank or with a bank abroad for account of an Italian bank. The purchase by resi- dents of shares of foreign financial ins t i tu t ions of any k i nd ( inc lud ing mu tual f u n d s ), as well as convertible bonds issued by such institutions, requires prior approval by the UIC. In practice, however, a resident is able to purchase freely shares of foreign funds that have received authorization f rom the Ministry of Foreign Trade to sell the ir shares in Italy, since that authorization is valid also for the ind iv idual resident subscriber. Such au tho r iza t ion is given only to f u n ds mee t ing c e r t a in requirements, including the investment of at least 50 per cent of their portfolio in Italian securities and the establishment of a branch office in Italy. Residents do not require authorization to purchase real estate in EC countries. 10 Financial investment, i.e., investment not intended to establish pe rmanent relations, is not considered direct investment. The regula- tions governing direct investment are also not applicable to participa- tions in "holdings" abroad of any kind. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution All issues of securities by nonresidents on the I ta l ian capital market require the prior approval of the M in is t ry of Foreign Trade and are subject to the rules governing the issue of domestic securities. These rules include the prior approval of the Bank of I ta ly and, for issues above Lit 500 million, that of the M in is try of the Treasury, the Ministry of Industry, and the Interministerial Credit Committee. Issues are norma l ly restricted to inter- national institutions. Transfers in connection with donations, inheritances, and dowries may be made freely. The t rans fer of prop- erty of residents leaving Italy pe rmanen t ly is allowed in two stages: the equivalent of Lit 5 million a person is allowed upon presentation of specified documents to an authorized bank at the time of leaving Italy, and the remainder is subject to exam ina t ion of the documents by the UIC, when residence has been established abroad. In relations with EC countries, the reciprocal granting of cred i ts for commercial t ransac t ions or the p e r fo rm- ance of services, with a ma tu r i ty longer than the time limits that banks are authorized to approve and up to five years, may be effected a f ter examination of the documents by the UIC. This applies also in relations with Austria, Finland, Norway, Sweden, and Switzer- land. Loans and credits (the latter only beyond a certain duration, generally 180-360 days) not connected with commercial transactions or with the performance of services require the approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and are severely restricted. However, financial loans may be granted to or by residents of EC coun- tries as indicated above. The export of Italian and fore ign securities is per- mitted only when they are owned by nonresidents and have been purchased against U.S. dollars, Canad ian dollars, Japanese yen, or externally convertible Euro- pean currencies, or against f u n ds on a Foreign Account or a Capital Account. Gold Residents may freely hold and negotiate gold in any form in Italy, with the exception of unref ined gold imported under ministerial license for indus tr ial pur- poses. The monetary authorities may freely acquire unrefined gold abroad. Agent banks may acquire unrefined gold abroad upon submission of licenses issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade to Italian firms for industrial use. Exports of wrought and semimanu- ITALY factured gold, other than jewelry, are subject to licens- ing. Imports of unrefined gold are not subject to value- added tax but such a tax is applied to subsequent sales; at the end of 1980 this rate was 15 per cent. Importa- tion and exportation of gold coins that are legal tender in a foreign country are prohibited in the absence of a special authorization. Imports of other gold coins for numismatic purposes are subject to value-added tax at 18 per cent. Changes during 1980 May 11. The basic fore ign exchange allowance for travel abroad for tou r i sm, business, medical treat- ment, and education was raised f rom Lit 750,000 to Lit 1,100,000 a person a year. At the same time, the l im it on the am o u nt of I t a l i an bankno tes w h i ch r e s id en ts may take out of the coun try was raised f rom Lit 100,000 to Lit 200,000. June 5. A system of special au tho r iza t ions was in tro- duced for trade and capital t ransac t ions w i th residents of Iran. Approval of the M in i s t ry of Foreign Trade was required for exports to I ran not covered by authori- zations issued before May 21. Requests for approval would be considered in the case of food and medical equipment or of exports in f u l f i l lm e nt of contracts executed prior to May 21. Special au thor iza t ion was not required for t ransac t ions on accounts of Iran ian residents with I ta l ian banks or for loan repayments. (These restrictions were l i f ted in ear ly 1981.) September 29. The period du r ing which export pro- ceeds may be retained in Ord inary Foreign Currency Accounts was reduced f rom 15 days to 10 days (UIC A430 ). (This 15-day period was restored on December 16, 1980.) September 29. For deferred paymen ts of up to 120 days in respect of exports amoun t ing to Lit 5 m i l l ion and above denom ina ted in foreign currency, a require- ment was in troduced obliging the exporter to finance at least 50 per cent of the deferred amount in foreign currency (UIC A432 ). (This requirement was rescinded on December 16, 1980.) September 29. Payment for imports of goods or services before the contractual due date was prohibited except w i th special permission f rom the UIC; the early repayment of foreign currency loans against impor ts or exports was also prohibited (UIC A431 and A433 ). (Both regulations were, however, term ina ted on December 16, 1980.) 233 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST (Position on December 31, 2980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ivory Coast is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buying and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived f rom the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange m a rk e t - and the f ixed rate between the French f r a nc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per mill on transfers from countries outside the West A f r ican Monetary Union, and one of 2.50 per mill on transfers to such countries.2 Banks and the postal system also levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the West A f r ican Monetary Union, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to gold, the exchange control measures of Ivory Coast do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Cen- tral African Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of Financing in the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Planning. The BCEAO is authorized to collect any information necessary to compile the balance of pay- ments statistics, either directly or through the banks, other financial ins t i tu t ions, the Postal Adm in i s t ra t ion, and notaries public. All exchange transac t ions re la t ing to foreign countries must be effec ted through au tho r i z ed banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of External Trade in the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency Since Ivory Coast is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current payments to or f rom The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, iJhe CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 Transfers between member countries of the Union are subject to the flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. 234 Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West A f r ican Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BCEAO bank- notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed to the BCEAO agency in Ab id jan by authorized banks' fore ign correspondents. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other ins t i tu te of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account with the French Treasury is pro- hibited. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited, w i thout prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO bankno tes that are mailed by authorized intermediaries to their fore ign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments Impor ts f rom South Afr ica are prohibited; those f rom Portugal may be made freely, although official action to liberalize such transactions has not yet been taken. Imports f rom the People's Republic of China and the U.S.S.R. are made on a barter basis or as compensation transactions. Certain imports are prohibited (e.g., a specified type of coffee-husking machine and wheat flour) or are subject to import license or prior authori- zation (e.g., paints, matches, and de te rgen ts ); as noted below, certain other import items are subject to annual volume quotas. Imports of rice depend on domestic produc t ion since they are intended as a supplementary means of sa t isfy ing domestic demand. These imports take place on the basis of an in terna t ional invitation to bid. All other imports may be made freely f rom any coun try, subject only to the submission of a declaration of in tent to import. Tar iffs have been raised for certain goods that compete with local production and, in the case of some goods, have been supplemented by annual volume quotas. Special ceilings have been set for selected imports from certain countries having low pro- duc t ion costs with which the trade balance has been consistently in large deficit. These quotas and ceilings are reviewed annually. With m inor exceptions, imports by sea or air, when valued at CFAF 500,000 or more, are subject to preshipment inspection by the General Superintendence Company of Geneva, in order to con- trol their price, quantity, and quality. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000; transactions of lower ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution value must be domiciled if a financial transaction is to be undertaken before customs clearance. The import licenses or import attestations entitle importers to pur- chase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than one month before shipment, if a documentary credit is opened, or eight days before the payment is due if the commodities have already been imported. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorizatiorr. Trans- fers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Any resident may make payments abroad freely, at any time, through an authorized bank, up to the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 a month without submitting any docu- mentation. Residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation for tourism of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a year (CFAF 87,500 for children under t e n ). For business travel a special foreign exchange allocation is authorized up to a maximum of CFAF 20,000 a day and CFAF 400,000 a trip. Any foreign exchange remaining in excess of CFAF 5,000 after return to Ivory Coast must be surrendered. The transfer of the full basic salary of a foreigner working in Ivory Coast is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers to foreign countries may take out BCEAO banknotes up to CFAF 25,000. Travelers to other coun- tries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes; however, if they travel to a country that is not a member of the West A f r ican Monetary Union, the amount taken out must be declared to the customs if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers to foreign countries may freely take out foreign banknotes and coin up to the equivalent of CFAF 175,000, as well as any travelers checks, etc., issued abroad. Subject to documentation, they may also take out any amount of travelers checks, etc., in fore ign currency established in their name after conversion of foreign currency into CFA francs, or drawn against a Foreign Account in Francs, or in a foreign currency in Ivory Coast. Nonresidents who have made a cur- rency declaration upon entry or are able to show the proper bank ing notices may take out larger amounts. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Most exports are free of license and require a declaration only. IVORY COAST Exports of processed and unprocessed agricultural com- modities, however, require the visa of the Directorate of External Trade. The due date for payment in respect of exports to foreign countries, including those in the French Franc Area, must not be later than 180 days a f ter the arrival of the goods at their destination. Regardless of the currency of settlement and the buying country, export receipts must be collected and repatri- ated through authorized intermediary banks w i th in one mon th of the due date. Regardless of destination, all export transactions must be domiciled with an author- ized bank when valued at more than CFAF 500,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun tr ies may be retained. All amounts due f rom resi- den ts of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident arid non- resident travelers may br ing in any amount of bank- notes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coin (except gold co in) of countries outside the French Franc Area; residents b r ing ing in foreign banknotes or other foreign means of payment must sell any amount in excess of CFAF 5,000 to an authorized bank w i th in e ight days and must make a declaration to the customs upon entry. Capital Capital movements between Ivory Coast and France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital t rans fe rs to all other countries require exchange control approval, but capital receipts from such countries are perm i t ted freely. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are ma in ta ined over borrowing abroad, over foreign inward direct inves tmen t, over all outward investment in fore ign countries, and over the issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in Ivory Coast. Such operations require prior authorization by the M in is try of Economy, Finance, and Planning as do issues by Ivory Coast companies. Exempt f rom authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee f rom the Ivory Coast Govern- ment and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, advertising, and o f fe r ing for sale in Ivory Coast has already been authorized. With the exception of controls re la t ing to fore ign securities, these measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the West A f r ican Mone- ta ry Un ion, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are maintained also over imports and 235 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and bu i ld ing operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Ivory Coast require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning.3 Foreign direct investments in Ivory Coast,4 must be declared to the Minister of Econ- omy, Finance, and Planning before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration du r ing which he may request the post- ponement of the project. The l iqu ida t ion of investments, whether direct investments or not, in Ivory Coast or abroad must similarly be reported in advance to the Minister. Both the mak ing and the liquidation of invest- ments, whether these are Ivory Coast investments abroad or foreign investments in Ivory Coast, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days fo l low ing each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere par t ic ipa t ion is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Borrowing by residents f rom nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning. The following are, however, exempt f rom this au thor iza t ion: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declara- tion, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by indus- trial firms to finance transactions abroad, to finance 3 Including those made through fo re ign companies that are d irec t ly or indirectly controlled by persons resident in Ivory Coast and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies resident in Ivory Coast. 4 Including those made in Ivory Coast by companies that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Ivory Coast of fore ign companies. imports into or exports f rom Ivory Coast, or by approved international trad ing houses to finance international merchanting transactions; (3) loans contracted by authorized banks; and ( 4) loans other than those men- tioned above, when the total amount ou ts tand ing of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower, and provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate. The repayment of loans con- s t i tu t ing a direct investment is subject to the formalities prescribed for the l iqu ida t ion of direct investments. The repayment of other loans requ ires au thor iza t ion only if the loan itself was subject to prior approval. Lending abroad is subject to exchange control authorization. Law No. 59-134 of September 3, 1959 provides tax and customs du ty benefits and other special privileges for new enterprises recognized as hav ing pr ior i ty status. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any fo rm in Ivory Coast. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other coun t ry requ ire pr ior authorization by the M in is ter of Economy, Finance, and Planning, which is rarely granted. Exempt f rom this requirement are (1) imports and exports by the T reasu ry or the BCEAO; ( 2) imports and exports of manu fac tu red arti- cles con ta in ing a m inor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold- filled or gold-plated a r t ic les ); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a weight of 250 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports and exports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1980 May 14. Ministerial Orders Nos. 655 and 656 were issued, prescribing tha t, regardless of destination, resi- dents' export receipts in excess of CFAF 500,000 must be repatriated w i th in one mon th. (Previously, receipts f rom exports to French Franc Area countries were required to be surrendered within two months .) 236 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Jamaica is the Jamaica Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1980 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, which are identical except for the commission mentioned below, were J$1.781423 = US$1. The intervention currency is the U.S. dollar, and Jamaica avails itself of wider margins. There are no taxes on sales of foreign exchange. The Bank of Jamaica's dealings against Jamaica dollars are confined to transactions in certain ma jor currencies.1 The Bank of Jamaica sets daily official buying and selling rates for dealings with the banks on the basis of the previous day's closing quotations in New York or London. The Bank also fixes daily rates at which commercial banks must deal with their customers. For spot dealings with commercial banks in the major currencies, the Bank of Jamaica charges no commission on purchases but 0.0625 per cent is charged on sales. The commercial banks apply a commission charge of 0.375 per cent on sales of non-CARicoM currencies and a discount charge of 0.125 per cent on purchases of these currencies. For CARICOM currencies, the commercial banks apply a commission charge of 0.25 per cent on sales and a discount charge of 0.25 per cent on purchases. Jamaica formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 22, 1963. Administration of Control The Bank of Jamaica administers exchange control on behalf of the Minister of Finance, subject to certain limitations in respect of which the approval of the Minister is required. The commercial banks are desig- nated as authorized dealers. Except for the allowance for tourist travel, for which the commercial banks have authority to provide foreign exchange, and transfers from External Accounts, all foreign exchange payments require the specific approval of the Bank of Jamaica. Commercial banks act only as agents of the Bank of Jama ica; they sell foreign exchange receipts to the Bank of Jamaica and in turn purchase foreign exchange from the Bank of Jamaica against documentation. Import licenses are issued by the Trade Adm in is t ra to r, who is responsible to the Minister of Indus try and Commerce. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries may be made by cred i t ing Jama ica dollars to an External Account or in any fo re ign 1 Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French f ranc s, Italian l ire, Ne ther lands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss f r an c s, U.S. dollars, and the currenc ies of member countries of the Caribbean Common Ma rket ( CA R I COM ). The CARICOM countries are An t igua, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, G renada, Guyana, Jamaica, Mon tserra t, St. Kitts-Nevis- Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and Grenadines, and T r in idad and Tobago. currency.2 Receipts from all countries must be received by debit of an External Account or in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts The commercial banks are empowered to open External Accounts in Jamaica dollars for nonresidents, provided that no credit of Jamaica dollars is made to the accounts w i thout the specific approval of the Bank of Jamaica. The funds on these accounts may be trans- ferred freely between nonresidents. External Accounts may be credited with payments by residents of Jamaica that have been approved by the exchange control authorities, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom the sale to an authorized dealer of gold or foreign currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of Jamaica, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for the purchase of foreign currencies. Accounts which are credited with funds that may not be placed at the free disposal of nonresidents of Jamaica (including the proceeds f rom the sale of unde- veloped land) are designated Blocked Accounts. Blocked f u n ds may be used without limitation by non- residents for local expenditure while they are in Jamaica, and for investment in Jamaica dollar securities and /or local mortgages. Applications for the release of funds in Blocked Accounts in excess of J$ 1,000 a calendar year, for use in Jamaica by the nonresident owner must be referred to the Bank of Jamaica. Imports and Import Payments Imports originating in South A f r ica are prohibited. A small number of goods may be imported freely f rom virtually all sources under an open general license.3 A ll other imports require specific licenses, irrespective of origin. For some goods, licenses are not normally issued unless they originate in member countries of the CARICOM.4 Imports are subject, in principle, to a global annual ceiling. Certain food items may be imported only by a public sector agency, the Jamaica Nu tr i t ion Hold- ings Limited. Payments for imports are subject to prior registration with the Bank of Jama ica, and all paymen ts for imports are subject to the licensing requirements, if any, being met; the impor ter must present a copy of the settlement invoice or other evidence of purchase and value, together with documen tary evidence that the goods 2 All currencies o ther th an the Jama ica dollar are cons ide red fo re ign currencies. All fo re ign cu r renc ies have been des igna ted as specified currencies. 3 For these goods, the open general license applies to all coun tr ies except South A f r i c a. Goods impo r ted und er the license mu st be consigned f r om one of the pe rm i t ted coun t r ies and must also originate in a permitted coun t ry. 4 For import licensing purposes, the Bahamas is trea ted as a CARICOM member coun try. 237 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA either have been shipped or are about to be shipped or that he is under contract to make prepayment up to six months prior to shipment; specific exchange control approval is required for advance payments. Certain goods are subject to a consumption tax, whether they are imported or manu fac tu red domesti- cally. In addition, a 10 per cent stamp duty tax is applied to imports, with the exception of government imports, basic food items, crude petroleum, fuel for utility companies, imports from CARICOM countries, and most raw materials. These taxes are collected at the port of entry and are calculated on the sum of the value accepted for customs and the customs duty. Certain import payments have been delayed. These arrears have been centralized, and the Bank of Jama ica is in the process of settling them in accordance with certain priorities. In December 1978 the authorities in i t ia ted a scheme whereby, w i th in certain limits, p r io r i ty for access to foreign exchange is granted to those importers who qua l ify for "certified exporter status." Access to that status is linked to past and projected export performance and to the local value-added content of the exported product. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require the approval of the exchange control authorities. Foreign exchange is not, as a rule, made available for remittances of income f rom emigrants' property in Jamaica, remittances for f am i ly ma in tenance, and cash gifts. In the case of t rans fe rs f rom emigrants' income and payments for fam i ly ma in- tenance, limited exceptions may be approved by the Minister of Finance on hum an i t a r i an grounds. All interest and dividends payable to nonresident investors are approved net of taxation. Certain current paymen ts have been delayed; these arrears also have been cen- tralized, and the Bank of Jamaica is in the process of settling them in accordance with certain priorities. A basic exchange allowance of US$55 a person for each calendar year for foreign travel other than for business or professional reasons is made available to residents by authorized dealers. The sale of fore ign exchange for travel for business and professional reasons is subject to the specific approval of the Bank of Jamaica and to daily limits of US$82 a day for the United States and US$108 a day for Europe. The numb er of days for which the approval is granted is determined on the merits of each case. Expenses for hotel accommodation, meals en route, etc., that are settled in Jamaica in domestic currency must be deducted f rom the travel allocation. Non-Jama icans working in Jamaica under a work perm it are allowed to remit abroad 30 per cent of their gross salary du r ing the period of their contract and their accumulated assets at the end of the contract period. Residents going abroad may take with them Jama ica banknotes not exceeding J$20 and other banknotes not 238 exceeding the equivalent of J$50. Bona fide requests for additional amounts are approved by the Bank of Jamaica. Nonresidents may take out the fore ign cur- rency notes they brought in. All visitors to Jamaica carrying more than US$500 or its equivalent must declare the fore ign exchange they b r ing in or take out of Jamaica. Exports and Export Proceeds All goods valued at not more than J$300 ( f .o .b .) may be freely exported by post or air express to any coun try not on the prohibited list.5 Where the va lue exceeds J$300, the goods may still be exported to all countries except those on the proh ib i ted list, but a specific license is requ ired for the export of ce r ta in agri- cu l tural products, ammun i t ion, explosives, firearms, an t ique f u r n i t u r e, ready-made garments, gold bu l l ion, m ine ral and metal ores, and an t ique pa in t ings. Exporters are required to surrender their exchange proceeds to authorized dealers w i t h in three mon ths f rom the date of shipment. However, with the approval of the exchange control authorities, cer ta in exporters may re ta in an agreed portion of the ir se t t lement of overseas commit- ments, as may be necessary for the ir operations; such retained export proceeds must not be sold to other nonbank residents. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom inv is ib les in fo re ign currenc ies must be sold to an au thor ized dealer. Res iden ts r e t u r n i ng to Jamaica may bring in Jama ica bankno tes up to J$20 a traveler, provided that this amount was declared on leaving the coun try, and all trave lers may br ing in any amount of fo re ign bankno tes. V is i tors are not permitted to br ing in or take out Jama ica currency. Res ident travelers are required to sell the ir ho ld ings of fore ign currencies to an au tho r ized dealer upon re tu rn. Tourists are required to settle their hotel bills in fo re ign cu r ren- cies, un less they can prove that they had purchased w i th foreign cu r rency an equ iva lent amount of Jama ica dollars f rom an au thor ized bank in Jama ica. Capital Outflows of resident-owned capital are restricted, irrespective of the ir des t ina t ion. Inves tmen ts abroad by residents and the purchase of local assets by residents f rom nonresidents requ ire the approval of the exchange control au tho r i t ies and are not approved, un less they result in tang ib le benefits for Jama ica. Foreign exchange is not made ava i lab le to res iden ts to make cash g i f ts to nonresidents. With the exception of ce r ta in types of inves tment in real estate, all approved direct investments in Jama ica by nonresidents are gran ted "approved status," under which the inves tor is given w r i t ten assurance that he 5 The list comprises A lban ia, B u l g a r i a, Czechos lovak ia, G e rm an Democratic Republic, Hung a ry, Po land, Rom an i a, Sou th A f r i c a, and U.S.S.R. Expo r ts to these coun t r ies r e q u i re spec if ic l icenses. In practice, no licenses are issued for exports to South A f r i c a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution will at any time be able to repatriate his original invest- ment plus any capital gain. In order to obtain approved status, the investor must apply to the Bank of Jamaica. Nonresidents are normally not permitted to take up security in respect of loans made to Jama ican companies owned or controlled by them. Domestic bank credit to nonresidents and to nonresident-controlled companies is subject to selective credit controls; for this purpose, firms are considered to be nonresident-controlled when the controlling interest is held beneficially, either directly or indirectly, by persons resident outside the CARICOM area. Such lending is subject to approval by the Bank of Jamaica. In general, non-Jamaican nonresidents are not per- mitted to raise local mortgages. However, nonresi- dents working in Jamaica under a work perm it may acquire a house to live in, with the permissible amount of mortgage restricted to 50 per cent. Foreign nonresi- dent owners of land in Jamaica, when selling to residents, are allowed to remit f rom Jamaica, in the first instance, the amount they paid originally f rom f u n ds brought into Jamaica; the balance of the sale price can be remitted annua l ly in ten equal installments, subject to a maximum remittance in any one year of J$ 10,000, except where the owner had received a previous under- taking that the investment in land carried "approved status." Foreign nonresident owners of houses built on residential lots are treated similarly, provided that the nonresident seller can sa t isfy the Bank of Jamaica as to the amount spent in Jamaica in acqu i r ing the lot and constructing the building. Except for special cases, which may be approved by the Minister of Finance on human i ta r ian grounds, no foreign exchange is made available for remittances of capital or income to Jamaican nationals who have emigrated abroad, and to beneficiaries under wills and intestacies. A maximum of J$4,000 a year may be JAMAICA allowed by the Minister of Finance on human i ta r ian grounds.6 Between Janua ry 1977 and March 1979 p r inc ipal payments for private nonguaranteed debt were not being released. Applications received up to June 1978 for the remittance of principal were placed in the Deposit Scheme and were released between Ap r il and December 1979. The balance of ou t s tand ing p r iva te nongua ran teed debt has been consolidated with repayment scheduled over a 70-month period which began in J a n u a ry 1980. Gold Three commemo ra t ive gold coins of J$20, J$100, and J$250 are legal tender but do not circulate. Resi- dents may hold and acquire gold coins in Jamaica for num isma t ic purposes. With this exception, res iden ts other than the mone tary au tho r i t ies and au thor ized indus tr ial users are not allowed to hold or acqu ire gold in any fo rm other than jewe lry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry requ ire licenses issued by the M in i s t ry of Finance; such licenses are not no rm a l ly gran ted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone ta ry au thor i t ies and indu s t r i al users. A ll commercial impor ts of jewe l ry requ ire import licenses. Changes during 1980 February 7. A deposit r equ i r em ent was established for the domestic currency equivalent of arrears for pay- ments on cu r rent in te rna t ional t ransac t ions. The deposit is made at commerc ial bank s, wh ich redepos it the f u n ds w i th the Bank of Jama ica. Interest is paid on deposited f u n ds f rom the day of deposit un t il the day the deposit is exchanged for f o r e i gn cu r rency. April 18. Exchange and trade res tr ic t ions app ly ing to Zimbabwe ( fo rme r ly Rhodes ia) were l i f t ed. 6 This amount in Jama ica do l lars has been increased to take in to account the deva lua t ions of the Jama ica do l lar since J a n u a ry 1977. 239 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN1 (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Japan is the Japanese Yen. The authorities of Japan do not ma in ta in marg ins in respect of exchange transactions and exchange rates are deter- mined, in principle, on the basis of unde r ly ing demand and supply conditions in the exchange markets. How- ever, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to counter disorderly conditions in the markets. The prin- cipal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. The inter- bank rate for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1980 was ¥203.60 per US$1. Authorized banks may freely carry out spot and forward exchange transac t ions with nonresident banks and among themselves; their forward transactions with resident customers must have a per- mitted unde r ly ing transaction. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Japan formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from April 1, 1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the M in- istry of Finance, the M in is t ry of In terna t ional Trade and Indus try (M IT I ), and the Bank of Japan acting as the Government's agent. Most of the au tho r i ty for verifying normal payments is, however, delegated to authorized banks referred to as foreign exchange banks. Import and export l icens ing is hand led by the MITI. Long-term inward direct inves tmen ts are under the ju r is- diction of the M in is ter of Finance and other appropriate ministers. Outward direct investment requires prior notice to the Minister of Finance. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries may be made in any cur- rency, including yen, and receipts also may be obtained in any currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Accounts in yen may be opened by any nonresident with any authorized bank in Japan. There are no restrictions on credits to or payments f rom these accounts, and balances may be converted f ree ly in to any foreign currency. Payment of interest on balances in such accounts may be restricted when it is deemed necessary to prevent drastic fluctuations in the exchange rate of the yen. Imports and Import Payments Imports can be freely made, with the exception of specifically restricted items. The Import Restriction 1 Effective December 1, 1980 Japan introduced a ma jor change in the basic legislation guiding the regulations on its exchange and trade system, namely the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law; this development involved a change f rom a system of general prohibition of external transactions unless expressly authorized to one under which, in principle, such transactions could be freely made unless expressly restricted. 240 System covers 73 items, 27 of which have been notified to the GATT as residual restrictions, while the other 46 items have been notified as fa l l ing under the state trad ing, na t ional security, public health, and moral pro- tection provisions of the GATT. For the restricted items, once the importer has obtained au thor iza t ion f rom the MITI, he receives an import quota certificate which en t i t les him to receive an import license f rom an au thor- ized fo re ign exchange bank au toma t ica l ly upon app l i- cation. For the impor ta t ion of certain other goods f rom specified countries or sh ipp ing areas, ind iv idu al au thor- iza t ion must be obtained f rom the MITI. Items under state t rad ing include certain dairy prod- ucts, certain cereals, salt, raw silk, raw and manu fac- tured tobacco, poppy straw, raw opium, and ethyl and dena tu red alcohol. Payment for imports may be effected up to one year before the import declaration or af ter customs clearance. Longer settlement periods require the prior approval of the MITI. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for inv is ib les may be made w i thout any l im i t a t ion, subject to ve r i f ica t ion by fore ign exchange banks. G i f ts and dona t ions to nonres iden ts (except rela- tives ab road) up to ¥ 5 m i l l ion are referred to the Bank of Japan, which approves the payment af ter ve r i fy ing its authenticity. However, remittances to relatives abroad, as well as other current payments for invisibles, such as the purchase of fore ign currencies in connection w i th travel abroad, may be made without limit. Both residents and nonresidents may take out freely up to ¥ 5 million in Japanese currency and may acquire fo re ign currency deposits in Japan. Overseas deposits by ind iv idua ls up to the equivalent of ¥ 3 million are subject to automatic approval by the Bank of Japan. Qua l i f ied enterprises in insurance, transpor ta t ion, securi- ties, etc., are perm i t ted to acquire overseas deposits und er b lanket l icens ing from the Bank of Japan. Exports and Export Proceeds Export restraint may be exercised by v i r tue of the Export and Import Transactions Law and an export trade con trol order issued under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law. Export res tra int may be applied either globally or to specified destinations, and it may cover export volume, or export prices, or other conditions. At the end of 1980, there were 61 export cartels under the provisions of the Export and Import Transactions Law. Of these, 46 required prior notice of exporters' agreements in respect of export transac t ions, 15 required prior approval of manu fac- turers' agreements on domestic transac t ions in goods for export, and 9 were reinforced by an export transaction license requirement. In addition, 205 items were sub- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ject to license under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law, in order to control their export to specified socialist countries, or because of short supply in the domestic market (e.g., tungsten o re ), or to fore- stall the imposition of import restrictions by other coun- tries (e.g., on sewing machines and certain tex t i les). Exports under processing contracts and exports for which settlement is under the "special" method also require individual licenses. Exports to Iran other than food and medicines and exports of specified raw mate- rials for foreign processing and reimport require individ- ual licenses; "special" settlement methods are those effected by means of open account or those involving payment later than one year after shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles may generally be accepted without a license. Residents as well as nonresidents may bring in freely any amount in Japanese or foreign currency. Capital Capital transactions are permitted unless specifically restricted. Such specific restrictions may take the form of requiring (1) prior approval; (2) prior notice w i th a waiting period, dur ing which the Minister or Ministers concerned may request or order that the transaction be suspended or its particulars be modified; or ( 3) prior notice without a waiting period. Other transactions are normally free, although in many cases must be reported. Under emergency conditions, most capital transactions not subject to specific restrictions may be subjected to prior approval; emergency conditions are defined as situations where a capital transaction might ( 1) make the maintenance of equilibrium in Japan's balance of payments difficult; (2) result in drastic fluctuations in the exchange rate; or (3) result in an in terna t ional flow of funds large enough to adversely affect Japan's money or capital market. A distinction is made between direct investment in Japan and other capital transactions. Besides ma jor i ty equity ownership of enterprises or establishment of branch operations, other types of investment which come under the direct investment regulations include ( 1) any acquisition of shares in unlisted companies; (2) acquisi- tion of 10 per cent or more of the shares of a listed company by a single foreign investor; and (3) acquisi- tion of loans or securities privately placed in Japan, under certain circumstances. Any change of business objectives of a company w i th more than one third for- eign ownership is also subject to the provisions for direct investment. Moreover, as a transitional measure, Japa- nese enterprises may be "designated" by the Minister concerned if a large degree of foreign ownership might have adverse implications for national security, public order, public safety, or the performance of the economy. JAPAN For such "designated" enterprises, any fore ign acquisi- tion of stock that would raise the proportion of foreign ownersh ip above a stated level (generally 25 per cen t) would be subject to the provisions of direct investment regulations, and thus require prior notice w i th a 30-day w a i t ing period. Requests or orders for suspension or modification of specific aspects of the transaction may be made if the M in is ter or Ministers concerned consider the transaction to have adverse implications for national security, pub l ic order or public safety, the activities of Japanese enterprises in related l ines of activities, the general pe r fo rmance of the economy, or the ma in te- nance of mu tual equality of treatment of direct invest- ment with other countries. Acquisition of securities other than through designated securities firms requires prior notice without a waiting period. Issues of securities abroad by Japanese enter- prises (or guarantees related to such issues) or non- resident acquisition of real estate in Japan are subject to prior notice with a 20-day wa i t ing period. Transactions requ ir ing prior notice with a 20-day wa i t ing period may be subjected by the Minister of Finance to suspension or modification if in his opinion the transaction might adversely affect ( 1) domestic and in terna t ional money markets, (2) Japan's in te rna t ional reputation, (3) Japan's indus tr ial activity or the smooth pe r fo rmance of the economy, and (4) imp lemen ta t ion of Japan's inter- na t ional agreements, in te rna t ional peace and security, or the ma in tenance of public order. Prior approval is requ ired, even under normal circumstances, for import usances beyond a m a t u r i ty of one year and for the issue of Euro-yen bonds. Other transactions by non- residents may be generally carried out freely. Ou twa rd investments by residents in the fo rm of loans, usance exceeding one year, issue of yen-denomi- na ted bonds in Japan by nonresidents, and direct invest- ment abroad are subject to prior notice with a 20-day wa i t ing period. The criteria for suspension or modifica- tion of specific aspects of such transactions are as in the preceding paragraph. Borrowing and lending in fore ign currency between residents and foreign currency deposits overseas by residents require prior approval. Other external transactions by residents may normally be carried out freely. Foreign exchange banks are subject ind iv idua l ly to controls over their overall net position in foreign cur- rency ( the ir oversold or overbought pos i t ion ), and limits are also applied to the net spot oversold position. Foreign loans by Japanese banks are subject to prior notice w i th a waiting period. Foreign exchange banks are free to accept foreign currency deposits f rom resi- dents and nonresidents and to make foreign currency loans to residents. Foreign banks are licensed to operate in Japan subject to Japanese bank ing regulations; they may obtain resources from inward remittances of foreign currency. 241 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN Gold Residents, including domestic producers of gold, may freely hold gold and purchase and sell it in domestic transactions. The import and export of gold bullion is free from licensing, but such transactions require notifi- cation to a foreign exchange bank or customs house. Changes during 1980 January 1. Japan lifted quantitative import restric- tions for 10 items, leaving 73 items still under direct import controls. It also implemented the In terna t ional Dairy and Bovine Meat Arrangements. January 17. Exchange and trade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe ( fo rme r ly Rhodesia) were lifted. March 2. A series of measures to strengthen the yen was announced: ( 1) the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Japan would strengthen their intervention policies, the U.S. authorities would also intervene to support the yen, and intervention would be coordinated with the authorities of the Federal Republic of Ge rmany and Switzerland; (2) free yen accounts held by fore ign public institutions would be exempted f rom interest rate controls, with effect from March 10; (3) Japanese authorized foreign exchange banks would be permitted to transfer funds f rom abroad through their interoffice free yen accounts up to limits determined by the Minister of Finance; (4) Japanese companies were permitted in some cases to make private placements of yen-denomi- nated bonds abroad; and (5) Japanese banks were per- mitted to make medium-term and long-term impact loans (general purpose foreign currency loans to Japanese residents). March 21. The Import Finance Credit System, which had provided low-cost foreign currency finance for imports, was abolished. April 1. Japanese banks, which had been requested in October 1979 to exercise increased prudence in their medium-term and long-term foreign currency lending abroad pending the development of their own specific criteria, were advised that such lending could be resumed. April 1. Japan's Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) was modified as follows: (1) Import duties on GSP products imported f rom the least developed coun- tries were, in principle, reduced to zero, without a ceiling clause; (2) the People's Republic of China was added to the list of beneficiary countries, as a result of which 117 countries and 29 areas became beneficiaries under the system; and (3) the GSP tar iff rates were reduced on three items (fresh bananas, black tea packaged for retail sale, and bulk w ine ). April 1. Early implementation of the Multilateral Trade Negotiations (MTN) commenced, as follows: (1) the Government reduced ta r i f fs on about 1,900 items out of the 2,600 items covered by the Geneva Protocol of the Tokyo Round and (2) implementation 242 of the tariff reduction for 1,640 of the 1,900 items was accelerated, by making both first-year and second-year reductions simultaneously, which amounted to two eighths of the scheduled (eight annual) reductions from the prevailing rates to the concessional rates. April 21. The Bank of Japan requested the principal Japanese banks to support the U.S. credit control meas- ures by limiting annual net lending to U.S. residents from their offices located outside the United States to 6-9 per cent of their outstanding loans. April 23. The Diet approved the agreements resulting from the MTN and on April 25 Japan officially accepted the agreements. April 25. Authorization was given to stamp imported goods with the Japanese Industrial Standards Marking, if the goods met Japanese specifications; 1,100 items were included. April 26. Japan commenced implementation of the Geneva Protocol; ta r i f fs were reduced by two eighths of the total reduction f rom the base rates on the list of about 2,600 items covered by the Protocol. April 29. Restrictions on the operations of Japanese banks abroad were eased. Each bank could now open a new foreign branch or subsidiary every two years, instead of every three years, and could open two new representative offices a year, instead of one. May 15. With respect to automotive trade, the Gov- ernment announced its intention to take steps to revise the relevant law for the fiscal year 1981 and, in principle, to eliminate t a r i f fs on automobile par ts; it also expressed its intention to improve standards and inspection pro- cedures. May 25. Five MTN agreements were implemented: (1) Agreement on interpretation and application of Articles 6, 16, and 23 of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) (Subsidies and Counter- vailing Du t ie s ); (2) Agreement on implementation of Article 6 of the GATT (an t idump ing measures); (3) Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade (product s tanda rd iza t ion ); (4) Agreement on Import Licensing Procedures; and (5) Agreement on Trade in Civil Aircraft. June 2. Mandatory sanctions on trade with Iran replaced the previous voluntary sanctions. Shipments to Iran, other than food and medicines, were banned unless approved by the MITI. The sanctions applied to all export contracts concluded on or a f ter November 4, 1979, as well as all service contracts concluded on or af ter June 2, 1980. December 1. The new Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law came into force, involving a change from a system of general prohibition of external trans- actions unless expressly authorized (i.e., a positive list) to one under which, in principle, such transactions could be freely made unless expressly restricted (i.e., a negative l is t). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution December 19. The Government approved the agree- ment with the United States opening procurement by the Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Public Corpora- tion to foreign companies, thereby permitting imple- mentation of the international agreement on govern- ment procurement as from January 1, 1981. JAPAN 243 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Jordan is the Jordan Dinar, which is pegged to the SDR at JD 0.388 = SDR 1. The middle rate of the Jordan dinar for the U.S. dollar, the inter- vention currency, is determined by the Central Bank of Jordan on the basis of the daily calculations of the U.S. dollar-SDR rate. On December 31, 1980 the buying and selling rates of the Central Bank for the U.S. dollar were US$3.2520 and US$3.2310, respectively, per JD 1, and those for sterling were <£ stg. 1.3624 and <£ stg. 1.3543, respectively, per JD 1. Buying and selling rates for other foreign currencies1 are fixed on the basis of the appropriate cross rates in the London market. A fee of 0.10 per cent is levied on exchange permits approved by the Central Bank for sales of exchange for imports, except imports of government departments and certain other approved institutions. Forward exchange trans- actions in U.S. dollars against the Jordan dinar are per- mitted in specified cases. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Foreign Exchange Control Department of the Central Bank, which also issues exchange permits; the Central Bank has delegated to authorized banks the issuance of exchange permits for import payments and, w i th in permitted annual limits, for payments for educational expenses of Jordan ians studying abroad and for various other purposes. An Import Committee comprising repre- sentatives of the Ministries of Industry and Trade and of Finance and Customs and of the Central Bank reviews import policy. In addition, an Economic Security Com- m i t tee is empowered to amend existing regulations or issue new ones concerning economic policy. Prescription of Currency All settlements in respect of trade with Turkey must be made in U.S. dollars through clearing accounts under a special reciprocal line of credit in U.S. dollars between the Central Banks of Jordan and Turkey.2 Payments to other countries may be made in any currency. Proceeds f rom exports (except of Jo rdan ian goods to neighbor- ing Arab countries or, excluding f ru i ts and vegetables, up to JD 500 to other countries and re-exported goods of foreign origin up to JD 1,500 in value) and invisibles must be collected, and surrendered where required, in any convertible currency through an authorized bank in Jordan, or in Jordan dinars f rom a nonresident account with an authorized bank in Jordan. Nonresident Accounts Subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank, 1 Belgian francs, deutsche ma rk, French f ranc s, I ta l ian l ire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Swedish k rone r, and Swiss f r an c s. 2 A bilateral paymen ts arrangement with Egypt has been suspended. 244 authorized banks may open nonresident accounts in domestic currency; these accounts may be credited only with approved funds. The approval of the Central Bank is necessary for transfers f rom resident to nonresident accounts, but transfers between nonresident accounts are permitted freely. In addition, nonresidents, including Jordanians work ing abroad, may freely open interest- bearing foreign currency accounts with authorized banks. Balances on these accounts may be w i thd rawn freely in convertible currency, and the interest rate is fixed in accordance with rates prevailing in international markets. Jo rdan ian nationals residing in Jordan may maintain fore ign currency deposits with licensed banks in Jordan, provided that such deposit accounts are credited with foreign currencies f rom any source and that the total of the deposits that any one person holds does not exceed the equivalent of JD 30,000. Jordan ians who have worked abroad for more than three years and have decided to re turn may open accounts in fore ign cur- rencies w i thout limits for a period of up to five years, after which the deposits in excess of the equivalent of JD 30,000 must be converted into Jordan dinars. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain i tems8 f rom any source, some imports f rom Romania, and all imports f rom Israel are prohibited. All other imports, unless covered by an agreement between Jordan and the exporting country (i.e., agr icu l tural products f rom neighboring coun tr ies), require impo rt licenses if their c. & f. value exceeds JD 100. These are granted freely by the M in is try of Indus try and Trade, except for certain i tems4 that are subject to scru t iny by the Minister of Indus t ry and Trade (whose prior approval is also required for imports of industrial machinery and of all materials needed for the establishment or expansion of an industrial firm) or by the appropriate ministry. Imports that require an import license also require an exchange permit, which is granted automatically when an import license has been obtained; the importer holding an exchange permit may either open a letter of credit or pay against documents. A fee of 0.10 per cent is levied on exchange permits for imports, except those made by government departments and certain approved institu- tions. The use of suppliers' credit is subject to prior Central Bank approval, which normally is given for 3 These inc lude ca rbon ic ac id; some nonalcoholic beverages; ciga- re t tes; secondhand passenger cars and buses t h at are more than five years old; and m i l i tary un i fo rms. Certain of these commodities may be imported, however, f rom Arab Common Market countries and f rom countries with which trade agreements are in force. Imports of barley, lentils, olives, olive oil, and some other agr icu l tural com- modities may be prohibited in good crop years. 4 These items on the "restricted list" include f rozen mea t, fish, and poultry; ghee, ma rga r ine, and other vegetable f a t s; tomato ju ice; saccharin; Dulcin; pectin; superphosphates; dry ba t ter ies; guns; fire- crackers; and wireless transmission and reception appara tus other than television and radios. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution essential imports only. Most imported commodities are subject to an import duty of 4 per cent of the c. & f. value, payable on the issue of the import license. In addition, a surcharge of 15 per cent of the duty-paid value is levied on most imports to finance social welfare and the development of certain public facilities. Payments for Invisibles Remittances by postal order do not require exchange control approval, provided that they do not exceed JD 10 a person a month (JD 100 a person a month for Kuwait and JD 50 for the United K ingdom). Payments for the following types of invisibles are generally per- mitted within certain limits: remittances to residents' dependents; reasonable living expenses of Jordan ian nationals abroad; expenses of Jordanian residents trav- eling abroad; educational expenses; expenses for medical treatment; business expenses abroad; and insurance payments in accordance with special regulations.5 No limit exists on the remittance of income accrued to nonresidents or savings of foreign nationals who intend to return to their own countries. The exchange allowance for business and tourist travel is the equivalent of JD 5,000 a person (JD 500 for children under 18). These allowances are granted annually for one or more trips. For family support, an annual allowance of JD 5,000 for each beneficiary is permitted, once a year; however, remittances by postal order may be made for amounts not exceeding the equivalent of JD 10 a month to any one person resident abroad (JD 100 a month for Kuwait and JD 50 for the United Kingdom) and are not subject to this ceiling. The policy in respect of payments for invisibles is, in general, liberal and nondiscriminatory. In practice, the Central Bank does not restrict remittances of income accruing to nonresidents or of savings of foreign nationals return- ing to their own country. In addition to any travel allocation, residents and non- residents traveling abroad may take out up to JD 300 in Jordanian notes and coin, and any amount in foreign notes and coin, provided these are for their own use. Furthermore, all travelers may take out checks, travelers checks, or letters of credit issued by authorized banks in Jordan, in accordance with exchange permits authorized by the Central Bank. Tourists and other nonresidents may also take out foreign currency notes and coin and any other foreign means of payment that they had previously brought in and declared to the customs authorities at the time of entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel are prohibited. Export proceeds must be collected and the foreign exchange surrendered w i th in six months of shipment. Exempt from this requirement are the proceeds from exports of foreign JORDAN goods with a value of less than JD 1,500, of Jordanian products to neighboring Arab countries, and up to JD 500 f rom exports (excluding fru i ts and vegetables) to other countries. Exporters and residents of Jordan are not permitted to maintain bank balances abroad for any purpose. Proceeds front Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank or, if banknotes and travelers checks are received, to an authorized bank or to an authorized exchange dealer. Travelers entering Jordan may bring in any amount in Jordanian and foreign notes and coin.6 Any person regarded for exchange control purposes as resident in Jordan may be required by the Central Bank to surrender to an author- ized bank any foreign currency at his disposal. Capital Capital may be imported freely, but exports of capital require approval and are not normally allowed, except that the Central Bank is prepared to examine applications by banks, insurance companies, industrial or trading firms, and contractors for permission to transfer f u n ds abroad for specified investment or operating purposes. Current income resulting from nonresident investments in Jordan may be transferred abroad. Under the Law for the Encouragement of Investment, profits f rom approved foreign investments may be remitted, without limitation, in any convertible currency. After two years, repatriation of the capital is permitted in three equal annual installments in any convertible currency. The Investment Committee may approve more liberal provisions, and exchange permits are granted accordingly. The Companies Registration Law No. 46 of 1975 provides various benefits for foreign companies establishing branches in Jordan for the pur- pose of conducting business outside the country; such branches may also be granted nonresident status for exchange control purposes. Premium Development Bonds denominated in Jordan dinars may be purchased with convertible currencies by nonresidents; maturity proceeds, premiums, and interest are transferable in any convertible currency. Gold The Central Bank has issued eight gold coins. These coins, although legal tender, do not circulate and are available only to nonresidents and domestic numis- matists. Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Jordan for numismatic or investment purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not, in principle, allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Licenses for imports of gold in any form other than jewelry are issued 5 All insurance must be taken out in Jordan, but fore ign exchange is granted for premiums in respect of insurance contracts concluded prior to May 1965. 6 Approval is not given for the crediting of such Jordan ian currency to a nonresident account or for the remittance abroad of the equivalent in fore ign currency. 245 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN by the Ministry of Industry and Trade on the recom- mendation of the Central Bank, while exports of gold in any form require a license from the Central Bank. Licenses are not normally granted, except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1980 January 16. It was decreed that contracts with non- resident contractors for projects in Jordan should be drawn in U.S. dollars, and a dinar-dollar forward exchange market was established to enable the resident par tners in such contracts to cover their exchange risks. April 7. The ceiling on foreign currency deposits permitted to be held by Jordanian nationals was increased from the equivalent of JD 10,000 to the equivalent of JD 30,000. 246 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Kenya is the Kenya Shilling, which is pegged to the SDR at K Sh 9.66 = SDR I.1 The middle rate of the Kenya shilling for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Central Bank is determined on the basis of the daily U.S. dollar-SDR rate. The Central Bank's buying and selling rates are set at 0.1 per cent below and 0.2 per cent above, respectively, the rate thus deter- mined. On December 31, 1980 buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were K Sh 7.5609 and K Sh 7.5836, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies2 are determined on the basis of appropriate New York closing rates. The rates for the Uganda shilling are set at par. The Central Bank does not deal in other foreign currencies, except occasionally on behalf of the Govern- ment. Additional effective exchange rates may arise from an advance import deposit scheme as well as f rom an export compensation scheme. The Central Bank deals up to six months forward with commercial banks in sterling and U.S. dollars to cover their contracts with exporters and importers; com- mercial banks may cover their forward exchange con- tracts in outside markets in other foreign currencies against U.S. dollars or pounds sterling. Administration of Control The Minister for Finance has delegated the adminis- tration of exchange control to the Central Bank. Au thor- ity is delegated to the authorized banks for approving certain payments for imports, many payments for cur- rent invisibles, and some capital payments. Import and export controls are administered by the Director of Trade and Supplies in the Ministry of Commerce. The responsibility for issuing import and export licenses rests with the Director, to whom appli- cations must be submitted by the importer or the exporter in Kenya before orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. Applications for the allocation of foreign exchange permits for imports also must be sub- mitted to the Director of Trade and Supplies; applica- tions for scheduled imports are screened by the Foreign Exchange Allocation Committee, composed of repre- sentatives of the Central Bank, the Treasury, and the Director of Trade and Supplies. Orders for imports of goods on open general license must be preregistered with the Director of Trade and Supplies before ship- ment. The government-owned Kenya National Trading Corporation, Ltd. has a monopoly over the import of iW i th effect f rom February 3, 1981 the exchange ra te of the Kenya shilling was changed f r om K Sh 9.66 = SDR 1 to K Sh 10.15 = SDR 1. 2 Bu rundi francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche ma rk, Ethiopian birr, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, Swaziland emalangeni, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Tanzania shillings, and Zambian kwacha. specified commodities, and the export of certain agricul- tu ral commodities is controlled by State Marketing Boards. Prescription of Currency Payments to residents of countries other than South A f r ica may be made in Kenya shillings to the credit of an External Account in Kenya or in any foreign cur- rency. Receipts may be obtained in Kenya shillings f rom an External Account in Kenya or in any market- able fore ign currency. Remittances to South Afr ica are prohibited, with the exception of pensions payable by the Government of Kenya. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Kenya shillings held by residents of coun- tries other than South Afr ica with authorized banks in Kenya are, with exchange control approval, designated External Accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments to such countries by residents of Kenya, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any currency (other than South Afr ican currency) and gold by nonresidents to authorized dealers. External Accounts may be debited free ly for payments to residents and nonresidents. Non transferab le funds of nonresidents are credited to Blocked Accounts. Subject to prescribed procedures, balances on Blocked Accounts (other than those in the benef ic ial ownership of residents of South A f r i c a) may be used for approved domestic expenditures and for the purchase in Kenya of specified bonds issued by the Government or by local authorities and officially quoted in Kenya.3 The redemption proceeds of these securities are transferable, and interest is freely transferable to nonresidents as and when it accrues. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom South Africa are prohibited. Some imports from all sources are prohibited for reasons of public policy; imports of certain other goods are not being licensed. Many goods may be freely imported f rom other sources under open general license, but others require a specific license. Certain items are imported only by the Kenya National Trading Cor- poration, Ltd. These include sugar, salt, rice, edible oils, blankets, and cotton piece goods. In addition to the open general import license, there are f o ur commodity schedules for imports. With minor exceptions, all private sector imports of commodities in Schedules I, II, III, and IV require a license for the allocation of foreign exchange, issued jointly by the Director of Trade and Supplies and the Central Bank. Applications must be approved before firm orders are 3 Such securities must be payable in Kenya shillings and they must not be redeemable earlier than five years f rom the date of acquisition. 247 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA placed. Imports of goods on open general license require an exchange allocation license, which is given automatically, and must be preregistered with the Direc- tor of Trade and Supplies before firm orders are placed. All goods in the first three schedules require a specific import license f rom the Director of Trade and Supplies. Once the specific import license has been obtained, for- eign exchange is granted freely for goods in Schedule I and on the basis of quotas reflecting past imports for goods in Schedule II. No foreign exchange is granted for Schedule III items. For items in Schedule IV, a specific import license is not required but foreign exchange is allocated on a quota basis. From time to time, exemptions may be granted from the quotas established under Schedules II and IV and f rom the prohibitions of Schedule III. Applications for foreign exchange allocation licenses for imports are subject to a charge of 1 per cent of the amount of the application. When an exchange allocation license has been obtained from the Central Bank or when such a license is not required, authorized banks are permitted to pro- vide exchange against documents, but normally not prior to customs entry. Prior exchange control approval must be obtained for imports of capital goods on deferred payment terms, and for imports of machinery and equip- ment, which are regarded as a contribution toward capital or are to be accounted for on a loan basis. With the exception of imports from Tanzania, Uganda, and some other countries, most imports with a pro forma invoice value in excess of K Sh 20,000 are subject to preshipment inspection as to quality, quantity, and price by the General Superintendence Company of Geneva acting for the Central Bank. A "Clean Report of Find- ings" must be obtained before shipment, and authorized banks in Kenya may not issue shipping guarantees for the clearance of imports until this "Clean Report" has been received. All goods purchased by importers in Kenya must be insured with companies licensed to trans- act insurance business in Kenya. Some imports are subject to a temporary import deposit requirement of 50 per cent or 10 per cent of the c. & f. value, or 100 per cent in the case of passenger automobiles and textiles; some commodities are exempt. The deposits bear no interest and are refundable within three months (six months for passenger automobiles and textiles). There is a surcharge of 10 per cent on all imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled. Authorized banks are empowered to approve specified categories of current payments without limitation or up to established limits. Amounts above these limits as well as other cur- rent payments may be approved administratively, and most current payments are in practice unrestricted. Fees for education up to the equivalent of K Sh 24,000 4 Authorized dealers are not allowed to remit any funds for educa- tional support to students at primary or secondary schools who were not abroad in the 1975-76 academic year. 248 a person for a full scholastic year4 and fees for other specified purposes may be approved by an authorized bank upon presentation of evidence of debt. The Cen- tral Bank may approve higher remittances for education expenses. Foreign nationals who work in Kenya as employed persons (as well as certain categories of the self-employed, such as doctors and dentists) for not more than four years may remit abroad as savings up to one third of their monthly salaries but not more than K Sh 4,000 a month; in addition, they may remit funds to cover maintenance, education expenses, etc., provided that their total remittances including savings do not exceed one half of their monthly salaries. Expatriates who have stayed for over four years may continue to remit from salaries as above, up to the end of the tenth year of their residence in Kenya, but in that case they are not entitled to transfer additional savings upon emi- gration within that period. Remittances to South Africa, other than certain pensions, are prohibited. Nonresident individual property owners may remit up to K Sh 20,000 of net rental income in each 12-month period. Any excess of net rent over the permitted trans- fer is placed in a Blocked Account and may be invested in approved securities with at least five years to maturity, after which period the redemption proceeds may be remitted to the nonresident beneficiary. Real estate com- panies deriving income solely from rent are permitted to transfer annually up to 10 per cent of the book value of their properties as at September 25, 1970, or an amount not exceeding 10 per cent of issued capital. Where income is derived from rent as well as other sources, applications must be made to the exchange control authorities for approval of remittance of such incomes. Companies with a nonresident equity holding may not remit a dividend of more than 10 per cent of equity capital and /or reserves. The basic allowance for travel by adults holding round-trip tickets is KSh4 ,000 a person (K Sh 2,000 for children between 3 and 12 years of age) every two years, which may be taken out in foreign banknotes. Holders of one-way tickets are not entitled to the basic travel allowance but to an allowance of K Sh 2,000 for adults and K Sh 1,000 for children. The basic allowance is not available for travel to South Africa. Business travelers to Tanzania and Uganda are granted an allow- ance of up to K Sh 400 a night for a maximum period of 10 days at a time. Business travelers to other coun- tries are granted an allowance of up to K Sh 650 a night for a maximum period of 25 days. There is a once only pilgrimage allowance of K Sh 6,000 for adults, which is available only to persons who have not utilized the basic travel allowance within the preceding two years. Non- resident travelers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount they brought in upon entry. Residents of Kenya traveling abroad on international flights and holding return tickets may carry up to KSh 100 with them for local expenses on return, but otherwise the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution export of Kenya banknotes is prohibited. Temporarily, all sales of tickets to Kenya residents for nongovernment travel outside Kenya are subject to exchange control approval. Applications for travel tickets must be accom- panied by a deposit of 10 per cent and 5 per cent of the value of the air and sea ticket, respectively, returnable only if the applications are not approved. Residents may not send abroad more than K Sh 200 a year as a cash g ift without specific exchange control approval. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. All regu- lar exporters must be registered with the Central Bank. Exports of certain foodstuffs and agricultural products require licenses and may be subject to restriction to ensure adequate supplies in the domestic market. Exports of tea, certain minerals, precious stones, and strategic materials are also subject to licensing. Most other goods may be exported without licenses. Coffee is exported through the Coffee Marketing Board. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be collected within three months of exportation and offered to an authorized bank in Kenya for conversion into Kenya shillings.5 Exports of manufactured goods with at least 30 per cent domestic value added are eligible for compensation equivalent to 20 per cent of the f.o.b. value. All exports other than coffee, tea, sugar, sisal, pyrethrum, horticul- tu ral products, petroleum products, soda ash, and most goods not subject to import duty are covered by the export compensation scheme. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in foreign currencies must be sold to an authorized bank. Nonresidents must settle hotel bills in foreign currency or against an External Account. Travelers may bring in freely foreign currency notes, except those of Tanzania and Uganda. The import of domestic banknotes is prohibited, except that residents returning to Kenya may bring in up to K Sh 100 previously taken out by themselves. Capital Capital transfers to all countries are restricted. Trans- fers to South Africa are not allowed. With the excep- tion of expatriate employees who have opted for remit- tance of savings from salaries, an emigrant is allowed to transfer up to K Sh 300,000 a family unit from his declared assets as a settling-in allowance to the new country of residence. Of this sum K Sh 100,000 is made available for immediate remittance and the remainder will be authorized for remittance in not more than five annual installments not exceeding the equivalent of K Sh 40,000 each year. The initial settling-in allowance of K Sh 100,000 lapses if it is not remitted within the first two years of the emigrant's departure from Kenya. All remaining funds must be credited to a Blocked 5 There are minor exemptions with respect to Ethiopian birr and Somali shillings for persons resident in specified border areas. KENYA Account; they may then be invested in approved securi- ties, and redemption proceeds become transferable, pro- vided that redemption does not take place earlier than five years from the date of purchase. If assets in Kenya are valued at K Sh 1 million or more, they must be liqui- dated before any exchange control approvals are sought and the proceeds must be invested in prescribed securities. The investment of foreign funds in Kenya is not gen- erally restricted, but to ensure eventual repatriation it is necessary to obtain from the Treasury a "certificate of approved enterprise" for the investment. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production requires approval. Local borrowing by nonresident- owned or nonresident-controlled companies, as well as borrowing by residents from nonresidents, requires exchange control approval and is restricted. All imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is granted for the purchase by nonresidents of Kenyan securities on a recognized stock exchange, pro- vided that payment is received in an appropriate man- ner. The income from such securities is remittable, but the proceeds on resale must normally be credited to a Blocked Account unless they are reinvested. Residents are not normally permitted to purchase foreign securities. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Kenya for num isma t ic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require exchange control approval. The import of the fo l low ing items from all sources is subject to individual licensing: jewelry of gold, silver, or platinum; gold- smiths' or silversmiths' wares, including set gems; bullion in the ingot, bar, or sheet; and gold coin. Imports of gold jewelry, as Schedule III items, require specific import licenses and foreign exchange is not allocated for them; import licenses for gold bullion (ingots, bars, or sheets) are issued restrictively and only to goldsmiths, and imports of gold coin are not being licensed. Changes during 1980 April 14. A circular was issued, placing transactions with Zimbabwe (formerly Rhodesia) on a normal basis; Rhodesian assets frozen since December 15, 1965 were redesignated as Blocked Accounts eligible for repatria- tion in accordance with exchange control regulations. June 20. The rate of compensation under the export compensation scheme was raised from 10 per cent of the f.o.b. value of exports which met the requirement of 30 per cent domestic value added to 20 per cent of the f.o.b. value, and the coverage was extended to all exports except coffee, tea, sugar, sisal, pyrethrum, horti- cultural products, petroleum products, soda ash, and most goods exempt from import duty. The administra- 249 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA tion of the scheme was also transferred from Customs Department to the Central Bank. June 20. A surcharge of 10 per cent was introduced on all import items; in addition, customs duties on a wide range of consumer goods were increased by up to 100 per cent. the June 20. "Letter of no objection" privileges were abolished. Previously, for about 120 commodities pro- duced in Kenya, no import licenses were issued unless the local manufacturers receiving protection through such privileges issued a letter not objecting to the import in question. 250 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Korea is the Korean Won, which is linked to a multicurrency basket (consisting of a trade- weighted basket and the SDR baske t ), but other factors are also taken into account if necessary. The Bank of Korea establishes daily the exchange rate of the won in terms of the U.S. dollar, which is the intervention cur- rency. On December 31, 1980 the buying and selling rates of the Bank of Korea for the U.S. dollar were W 657.90 and W 661.90, respectively, per US$1, and the telegraphic transfer buying and selling rates of the foreign exchange banks were W 657.50 and W 662.30, respectively, per US$1. The buying and selling rates for certain other currencies are posted daily by foreign exchange banks on the basis of buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Foreign exchange banks may conduct forward trans- actions not only in foreign currencies but also between the Korean won and foreign currencies. In case of forward transactions in foreign currencies, the terms of the forward contract may extend for up to one year between foreign exchange banks or between foreign exchange banks and nonresidents. Between foreign exchange banks and nonbank resident users of the facility, the term may extend for up to six months, provided that the forward contract relates to a bona fide transaction and that the amount of the contract does not exceed the expected receipt or payment arising from that transaction. In cases of forward transactions between the Korean won and foreign currencies, the U.S. dollar, the pound sterling, the deutsche mark, and the Japanese yen are the foreign currencies covered. Foreign exchange banks may sell or purchase foreign exchange to or from foreign exchange banks or nonbank residents, provided that the forward contract relates to exports, imports, and some capital transactions such as the payment of principal and interest on long-term foreign loans or foreign currency loans by local banks. The term may not exceed six months, and the amount of the contract may not exceed the expected receipt or payment arising f rom the transaction. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance initiates policy with respect to prescription of currency and method of settlement, foreign exchange operations, payments for nonmer- chandise transactions, and capital transactions and transfers. It also prepares and administers the Foreign Exchange Supply and Demand Plan, which sets overall ceilings on the amounts of foreign exchange that may be used. The Bank of Korea, as the Government's agent, executes most of the above functions; it also regulates operations in the exchange market and is authorized to intervene in it. The Bank has been delegated authority to control payments related to invisibles and certain capital transactions. The foreign exchange banks, as well as the branch offices in Korea of foreign banks, are authorized to engage in commercial international banking and in all foreign exchange dealings, with the exception of those specifically prohibited. The trade program for imports financed from Korea's own foreign exchange resources (KFX) is prepared by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Imports financed by foreign loans are drawn up separately by the Economic Planning Board in consultation with the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Import licenses are issued by the foreign exchange banks. Prescription of Currency All settlements between Korea and other countries are made in convertible currencies. The proceeds of exports must be obtained in prescribed currencies.1 Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents, including Korean workers abroad, may ma in ta in foreign currency deposit accounts with foreign exchange banks. Remittances from such accounts and withdrawals in the form of currency notes upon depar- ture from Korea may, in general, be made freely. The approval of the bank where the account is held is not required for remittances abroad or transfer to other foreign currency accounts, or for remittances from remuneration for services in Korea, purchases of other foreign means of payment, or sales to a foreign exchange bank in exchange for domestic means of payment or payments for approved transactions. The deposit may be disposed of by sale to a foreign exchange bank at the prevailing exchange rate and may be debited for salaries paid to foreign employees. All residents are allowed to open foreign currency deposit accounts. The holders of these accounts may change the currency composition of these accounts as they wish. Imports and Import Payments All imports require licenses; for certain imports (see be low ), licenses are issued upon application. Imports are divided into two categories: those paid for with Korean foreign exchange (KFX imports) and those paid for with foreign loan funds. KFX imports are classified as automatic approval or restricted items. All commodities may be imported freely (i.e., applications for import licenses are automatically approved), unless they are in a list of restricted items, subject to the general limits set by the Foreign Exchange Supply and 1 In addition to the Hong Kong dollar and the Swiss f ranc, the list of prescribed currencies consists of the currencies of the member countries of the IMF that have accepted the obligations of Article VIII of the Fund's Articles of Agreement. 251 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA Demand Plan. On December 31, 1980, out of 1,010 basic items in the Customs Cooperation Council Nomen- clature (CCCN), 317 were classified as restricted items. Imports of raw materials for the production of exports are normally approved automatically, irrespective of their classification. Import licenses are granted only to registered traders; to maintain the status of a registered trader, a minimum value of US$1 million of exports is required each year for ordinary exporters. The commercial terms of payment on which imports may be contracted are regulated, and advance import deposits ranging f rom 5 per cent to 20 per cent are required for goods imported by the private sector on a deferred payment basis. These requirements are met, for KFX imports, by a deposit of local currency at the time of the request for the opening of letters of credit. Advance deposits are retained until the bill of lading is released. The customs tariff is a "flexible" tar iff. Furthermore, the Government may alter import duty rates adminis- tratively by up to 50 percentage points. The Govern- ment also has authority to impose import surcharges of up to 30 per cent on all dutiable imports, but by the end of 1980 it had not invoked this authority. A defense surcharge of 2.5 per cent ad valorem is levied on most goods, whether locally produced or imported. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require individual licenses. Payments for invisibles connected with foreign trade and for certain other items such as banking charges, insur- ance premiums, communication fees, and periodicals are licensed automatically. In addition, exporters are author- ized to use certain exchange earnings for the expenses of their overseas branches. Residents traveling abroad may purchase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$3,000 as the basic travel allowance plus US$200 a day, or up to US$2,000 as a monthly allowance for living expenses, and may also purchase additional foreign exchange for extra expenses. The basic travel allowance for Koreans work- ing abroad is US$1,000. Korean currency notes in excess of W 500,000 and foreign currency notes may not be exported without special permission. Nonresi- dents must register the foreign exchange that they bring into Korea if the amount exceeds the equivalent of US$10,000. Upon leaving the country, foreign residents and tourists may acquire foreign exchange up to the amount for which they have proof of exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports on a restricted list require individual licenses. All other exports may be made freely under an automatic approval procedure. Foreign exchange pro- ceeds from exports must either be surrendered to a foreign exchange bank at its posted customer rate, or be deposited in foreign exchange accounts in banks. 252 Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds derived f rom invisibles must either be sold to a foreign exchange bank for won or be deposited in foreign exchange accounts in the banks. Travelers may bring with them any amount of foreign exchange, but the import by travelers of Korean currency in excess of W 500,000 is restricted. The proceeds received by construction companies from construction activity abroad must be deposited in foreign currency accounts, and the conversion of these deposits is subject to approval by the Bank of Korea, the Korean Exchange Bank, or a commercial bank, for ascertaining the bona fides of the transactions; approval is given virtually automatically. Capital All capital remittances require approval. Foreign capital investment, loans from abroad, and imports of capital goods on a long-term basis can secure a guar- antee of repayment and repatriation under the Foreign Capital Inducement Act. No limits are placed on the conversion and remittance of legitimate profits and dividends, or on the repatriation of the original capital invested, but proposed remittances must be notified to the Economic Planning Board 90 days prior to the end of the fiscal year. Under the Foreign Capital Induce- ment Act, authorization is required for borrowing abroad of more than US$200,000 with maturities in excess of three years; for borrowings under US$200,000 repayable within three years, authorization is required under the Foreign Exchange Control Act. Foreign bank branches in Korea can enter into swap transactions with the Bank of Korea to secure funds for their domestic currency lending. Gold Certain commemorative gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may freely buy, hold, and sell gold in any form in Korea. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Bank of Korea or a foreign exchange bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users. The import of gold for indus tr ial or medical purposes requires approval by a foreign exchange bank. Domestically produced gold may be disposed of in the free market. The free market price at public gold auctions was about W l l , 1 65 a gram at the end of 1980. Changes during 1980 January 4. The settlement period for imports with deferred payment was extended f rom 120 days to 180 days. January 12. The basic exchange rate was changed f rom W 484 per US$1 to W 580 per US$1. January 25. The limits on swaps between foreign bank branches in Korea and the Bank of Korea, a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution source of domestic currency lending by foreign bank branches, were raised. January 29. Exchange and trade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe (formerly Rhodesia) were lifted. February 27. A new exchange rate regime was intro- duced whereby the won was linked to a multicurrency basket (consisting of a trade-weighted basket and the SDR basket), but other factors would also be taken into account in determining the exchange rate. The U.S. dollar remained the intervention currency. February 27. The foreign exchange certificates were abolished. March 20. The advance import deposit for imports of copper on a deferred payments basis was reduced from 20 per cent to 10 per cent. June 4. A total of 41 categories of commodities were added to the list of goods permitted to be imported on a deferred payments basis, while 93 others were deleted. (This measure resulted in an increase, in value terms, of goods payable on a deferred payments basis.) June 10. Foreign bank branches were permitted to make loans to all enterprises with foreign investment (this was previously limited to enterprises with a foreign investment ratio of more than 50 per cen t ). The amount of loans to individual enterprises was limited to less than 50 per cent of the amount of foreign invest- ment. Foreign bank branches were no longer restricted to providing funds only to enterprises having the same national origin as the bank. June 19. Oil importers and oil refining companies were permitted to receive short-term foreign currency loans for crude oil imports repayable within 180 days. July 1. Authorization was granted for forward exchange transactions between the Korean won and specified foreign currencies. July 1. Thirty-three commodity categories were trans- ferred from the restricted to the automatic approval list, while 20 others were removed from the automatic approval list. As a result, the share of imports on the automatic approval list out of all basic items in the CCCN rose marginally from 68.5 per cent to 68.6 per cent. July 1. Tariff quotas on a number of foodstuffs, KOREA chemicals, textiles, wood products, steel products, natu- ral rubber, and agricultural machinery were introduced for the period up to December 31. The tariff rate for the quotas was reduced from an average of 18.3 per cent to an average of 8 per cent. July 19. Import tariffs on 84 luxury items were raised from an average of 52 per cent to an average of 71 per cent for the period up to December 31. August 7. The limitations on import credits for major raw materials were eliminated. August 21. The limit on lending by foreign bank branches to enterprises with foreign investment was raised f rom 50 per cent to 100 per cent of the amount of foreign investment. Furthermore, the scope of the use of funds received under swaps was extended to include export financing and the purchase of Monetary Stabilization Bonds. September 5. The following measures were intro- duced to encourage foreign direct investment: (1) the range of projects acceptable for foreign investment was expanded; (2) the minimum permitted investment amount was lowered from US$500,000 to US$100,000; (3) the permissible ratio of foreign investment to total investment was raised to 100 per cent for certain proj- ects; and (4) the regulation requiring a minimum of two years before the repatriation of capital was abol- ished. October 15. The minimum import amount on a deferred payment basis was lowered from US$100,000 an item to US$50,000 an item, and materials for the defense industry were added to the items eligible for deferred payment. October 15. The foreign exchange control regulations were revised with a view to rationalize and simplify various regulations. In the course of this revision, some authority was delegated from the Bank of Korea to foreign exchange banks, the amount of documentation required for the approval of many transactions was reduced, the period for receiving commodity export proceeds was extended from 270 days to 360 days, the regulations for the purchase of foreign securities were relaxed, and the list of transactions and currencies eligible for forward exchange transactions was expanded. 253 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Kuwait is the Kuwaiti Dinar. Exchange rates are computed f rom the value of the Kuwaiti dinar, which is determined on the basis of the fixed but adjustable relationship between the Kuwa i ti d inar and a weighted basket of currencies of Kuwa i t's ma jor trading partners. For exchange transac t ions w i th local banks in the intervention currency, the U.S. dollar, the Central Bank of Kuwait normally sets margins of 0.0625 per cent on either side of the middle rate. The Central Bank sets the ra te for the U.S. dollar each day on the basis of the latest available market quotations for that currency in relation to the other currencies included in the basket. On December 31, 1980 the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were KD 0.27113 and KD 0.27147, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On April 5, 1963, Kuwa it forma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control, and residents and non- residents may freely purchase and sell fore ign cu r ren- cies in Kuwait. Dealings in the currencies of Israel and South Afr ica are prohibited.1 General and individual import licenses are issued by the M in is t ry of Commerce and Industry. A limited control over exports is adm in- istered by the Customs and Ports Adm in is t ra t ion of the Ministry of Communications. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requ iremen ts. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open accounts in Kuwa i ti dinars and foreign currencies. The use of such accounts is not restricted. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all private imports other than foods tuffs; licenses are issued freely, except for wheat, flour, and asbestos pipe. Registered import- ers hand l ing a va r ie ty of commodities may ob ta in a general license valid for one year. Other importers must obtain specific licenses for individual commodi- ties, which also are valid for one year. Importation of certain items (mainly oxygen, certain steel pipes, pork or foods tu f fs containing pork, alcoholic beverages, used trucks and buses not using gasoline for fuel and over ten years old, and used automobiles over five years old) is prohibited. 1 In addition, all imports f rom these countries and all exports to them are prohibited; payments may not be made to them or be received from them for any type of transaction. 254 Commercial imports normally are limited to regis- tered importers. To be registered, the importer must be either a Kuwa i ti citizen or a firm in which all part- ners are Kuwa i ti nationals or a shareholding or limited l iab i l i ty company in which Kuwa i ti na t iona ls own at least 51 per cent of all stock. Imports f rom any per- m i t ted source may be pa id for freely. Du r ing 1980 customs t a r i f fs con t inued to be used for the protection of domes t ica l ly produced goods. Exports and Export Proceeds Expor ts of live sheep and pou l t ry and of ce r ta in other items (such as sugar, fa ts, rice, meat, eggs, fish, m i lk, cheese, bu t te r, olive oil, f resh f r u i t s, vegetables in any fo rm, beans, lentils, chick-peas, jam s, and cemen t) may be proh ib i ted in t ime of emergency or shortage in Kuw a i t. These i tems may be exported in l im i t ed quan- t i t ies only, u n d er a special license issued by the M in is- try of Commerce and Indu s t ry. Exports of arms, amm u n i t i o n, and scrap metal requ ire licenses. Licenses are not required for other exports or re-exports. There are no r equ i r em en ts attached to receipts f r om exports or re-exports: the proceeds need not be repa tr ia ted or su r- rende red, and they may be disposed of free ly, regardless of the cu r rency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles A ll paymen ts for current inv is ib les may be made f ree ly. Travelers may br ing in or take out any amount in Kuw a i ti or other bankno tes. Capital There are no exchange control r e s t r a in ts on the trans- fer to Kuwa it of resident or nonres ident cap i tal in any currency. Government agreement is necessary for the pa r t ic ipa t ion of nonres ident cap i tal in co rpo ra t ions in Kuwa i t, and a license is required for the es tab l ishment and opera t ion of indu s t r ies in Kuw a i t; at least 51 per cent of ownership of new Kuwa i ti compan ies must be held by na t iona ls. No res tr ic t ions are imposed on out- ward cap i tal paymen ts by residents or non res iden ts. Gold The mone tary au tho r i t ies and me rchan ts registered w i th the Ministry of Commerce and I n d u s t ry may impo rt and export gold in any fo rm, provided th at such gold is not less than 18-karat fine; gold jewe lry may not be impor ted or sold unless it is p rope r ly hall- marked. Kuwa i ti nationals may freely, and w i thout license, purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad. Other residents may, on a r r ival or depa r tu re, carry along the ir holdings of gold in any fo rm, without restriction or license. Jewelry and pre- cious metals in any fo rm, manu fac tu red or u nm a n u f a c- tured, are subject to import du ty at 4 per cent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT Changes during 1980 March 2. A 4 per cent import duty (c.i.f.) was intro- duced. It was also announced that other du ty rates may be prescribed for specified goods, up to a maximum of 100 per cent; the following items, however, would be duty free: articles for personal use, commercial samples, spare parts for ships and airplanes, materials, merchan- dise, industrial goods, agricultural products, and imports by charitable and nonprofit organizations and sports associations. August 4. The Kuwaiti dinar bond market, which had been closed in November 1979 as Kuwa it faced a liquid- ity squeeze, was reopened to fore ign borrowers; the number and amoun ts of new issues con t inued to be restricted. August 24. With effect f rom August 16 the impo rt of all new drugs and Pharmaceuticals was banned, with the exception of some new essential drugs approved by the M in is try of Public Hea l th; the ban would rema in in effect un t il all drugs and pharmaceu t ical prepara t ions curren t ly in use in Kuwa it had been reregistered. The registration period would be f r om September 20, 1980 to June 20, 1981. 255 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Lao People's Democratic Republic is the Kip (KN ), which was introduced by decree on December 10, 1979 to replace the Kip of Liberation at KN 1 = KL 100. On December 31, 1980 the exchange rate for the U.S. dollar quoted by the National Bank of Laos (the central b a n k) was KN 10 = US$1. The official exchange rate applies to most foreign exchange transactions. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted. An exchange premium of up to 50 per cent is deter- mined periodically and applies to transactions with tourists and with embassies and to inward t rans fe rs; on December 31, 1980 this premium was 40 per cent. Administration of Control The Bank for Lao Foreign Trade, a subsidiary of the National Bank, handles all official foreign exchange transactions related to foreign trade and services. All other official transactions are handled by the Na t ional Bank, which also administers exchange controls. Most foreign trade has been nationalized and applications for imports through official channels must be approved by the Ministry of Commerce and Indus t ry and the Ministry of Finance. The Societe Lao Import-Export (SLIE), which is a part of the Department of Foreign Trade, carries out the actual trade transactions and collects a commission of 2 per cent of the c.i.f. value of each export or import transaction. The Department of Internal Trade in the Ministry of Commerce and Indus try purchases imported commodities from the SLIE for domestic distribution and pays the import taxes. It values merchandise received under foreign aid at the domestic sale price of the product; import taxes on aid imports are levied on 80 per cent of this price. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirement is imposed on receipts or payments but, in principle, the National Bank provides and accepts only deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. The Lao People's Democratic Republic has bilateral trading arrangements covering all com- modity trade with Bulgaria, the German Democratic Republic, and Viet Nam. The unit of account is the U.S. dollar, and each account is settled at the end of the year in commodities valued at world market prices. Imports and Import Payments Only essential imports are permitted through official channels, depending on need and the availability of funds. An annual import plan is formulated by the Department of Foreign Trade in the Ministry of Com- merce and Indus t ry, based on requests fu rn i shed by each government ministry, province, and state enterprise. In general, priority is given to the import of spare parts, raw materials, mach inery, and commodities of basic necessity, inc lud ing rice. The import program is reviewed and revised every three months du r ing the fiscal year. An allocation of foreign exchange to a state enterprise lapses at the end of the fiscal year if it is not u t i l ized; state enterprises may mod i fy the ir impo rt requirements d u r i ng the year, subject to the approval of the Comite du Plan. State enterprises must t ran s fer the ir export ea rn ings to the Na t ional Bank but once an enterprise has met its planned target for fore ign exchange earnings it may keep 50 per cent of additional earnings in a special account at the Na t ional Bank; f u n ds in such special accounts can then be used by the en terpr ise to import mach inery and spare parts, as well as to cover certain prescribed operational expenses in fore ign exchange. These amoun ts are not included in the annual import p lan. Since the end of 1979 individ- ua ls have been allowed to export and import f ree ly provided that they l im it the ir trad ing activities to com- modities other than tin, coffee, and timber and obtain the fore ign exchange required for imports f rom private exporters. Payments for Invisibles There is a foreign exchange budget de ta i l ing the Government's payments in fore ign exchange du r ing the fiscal year. Payments for all other invisibles are subject to p r ior authorization by the M in is t ry of Finance. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of gold and silver are prohibited, except when made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. There is an export tax of 10 per cent on all exports except logs, which are taxed at 25 per cent, and silk, which is taxed at 40 per cent. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered to the Na t ional Bank. Capital There is no foreign investment code. All outward capital transactions are prohibited. Gold Residents are prohibited from buy ing or selling gold in any form. Changes during 1980 1 Deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. January 15. The official exchange rate of the kip was changed from KN 16 = US$1 to KN 10 = US$1. 256 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Lebanon is the Lebanese Pound. The authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are deter- mined largely on the basis of demand and supply con- ditions in the exchange market. However, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to ma in ta in orderly conditions in the exchange market. On December 31, 1980 the rate for the U.S. dollar was LL 3.6750 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The calculation of duties and taxes for a given month on amounts invoiced or expressed in foreign currencies is based on the middle rate of those currencies during the previous month. For December 1980 this rate was LL 3.55 per US$1. Prescription of Currency No restrictions are imposed on exchange payments abroad or receipts in Lebanon. Some transactions with certain countries with which Lebanon has bilateral payments agreements1 may be made through specific accounts denominated in U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few goods (ma in ly arms and ammuni- tion, narcotics, and similar products) are either pro- hibited or reserved for the Government. All imports from Israel and Zimbabwe are prohibited. Imports of wheat and wheat derivatives, as well as of certain agricultural products that are produced locally, are either prohibited year-round or dur ing a specified period of the year. Imports prohibited year-round include wheat, which, in principle, may be imported only by the Government, and citrus f ru i ts, apples, olives (excluding olives in cans weighing less than 2 kilo- g r am s ), olive oil, and peanuts; imports prohibited at certain times include squash, eggplant, green beans, watermelons, peas, peaches, and apricots. Imports of certain other agricultural products and all seeds require a license. Import licenses are also required for certain finished goods, sanitary ceramic wares, and electric and telephone wires and cables made of copper. All other commodities may be imported freely without a license. Exchange to pay for imports may be obtained freely. Banks are obliged to ensure that importers are in posses- sion of a valid import license, if required, before issuing letters of credit. A municipalities tax of 3.5 per cent is levied on the value of all goods imported, except those originating in an Arab country. A stamp tax is applicable to all imports except gold and banknotes at the following rates: LL 2 per mill for import values up to LL 100,000, 1 Czechoslovakia, Poland, and Romania. Lebanon also maintains such arrangements with Egypt and Guinea. LL 1.5 per mill for import values between LL 100,000 and LL 400,000, and LL 1 per mill for import values exceeding LL 400,000. A surcharge of 10 per cent of the applicable import duty is levied on specified textiles and garments. Surcharges are also levied on motor vehicles, jewelry, watches, and alcoholic beverages. The rates of surcharge on motor vehicles, based on weight, are 20 piastres a kilogram up to 1,500 kilograms; 30 piastres a kilogram between 1,500 kilograms and 2,000 kilo- grams; and 40 piastres a kilogram over 2,000 kilograms. The ra te of surcharge on watches and jewelry is 5 per cent, and that on alcoholic beverages is LL 4 per liter, or LL 145 for a case of whiskey containing 12 bottles. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisibles. Exchange may be obtained through the free market. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain goods (ma in ly arms and ammuni- tion, narcotics, and similar products) to any destination, and all exports to Israel and Zimbabwe are prohibited. Exports of wheat and its derivatives, to any country, and all exports to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea require a license. Exchange receipts from exports may be retained, used, or sold in the free market. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be retained, used, or sold in the free market. Capital There are no limitations on capital payments or receipts. Exchange may be obtained or sold through the free market. Banks are permitted to pay interest on nonresident-held deposits denominated in Lebanese pounds. They may extend credit in Lebanese pounds to nonresidents up to the amount of their paid-in capital, provided such credit serves to finance foreign trade transactions. Bank credit in Lebanese pounds to resi- dents for the purchase of foreign exchange for purposes other than foreign trade transactions is subject to a reserve requirement of 40 per cent. Banks are author- ized to ma in ta in net foreign currency positions up to twice the amount of their own capital. Under a "free zone" bank ing fac i l i ty, the commercial banks are exempt f rom reserve requirements and fees for deposit insurance in respect of foreign currency deposits of nonresidents. Nonresidents are exempt from the 10 per cent tax on interest earnings f rom foreign currency deposits. Under a National Investment Insurance Scheme, new foreign investments are insured against losses arising f rom noncivil risks, inc lud ing war. Compensation is paid on losses exceeding 5 per cent of the insured value. 257 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any fo rm at home or abroad and may freely negotiate gold in any form with residents and nonresidents at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are freely permitted and do not require a license but must be officially recorded. The import, export, and domestic sale of foreign gold coin must be covered by a certificate indicating the gold content and weight, issued by the office for the Protection of the Consumer, Changes during 1980 December 31. The 10 per cent import surcharge on specified textiles and garments, due to expire on December 31, 1980, was extended indefinitely. 258 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Lesotho is the Maloti, which is equal in value to the South African rand. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. On Decem- ber 31, 1980 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were US$1.3415 and US$1.3405, respectively, per M 1. Subject to certain limitations, authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange operations. The South African Reserve Bankr provides forward cover; for private sector transactions such cover is given to authorized dealers based on the middle spot rate adjusted by a percentage factor announced f rom time to time. The South Afr ican rand is also legal tender in Lesotho. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There is also a freely floating financial rand which applies to the local sale and redemption proceeds of South African securities and other investments in Lesotho owned by nonresidents, capital remittances by emigrants and immigrants, and approved outward capital transfers by residents. The rate is usually at a discount from the commercial rand rate. Exchange Control Territory Lesotho forms part of the Rand Monetary Area, which is a single exchange control territory comprising Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland. No restrictions are applied to payments within the Rand Monetary Area; these are uncontrolled and unrecorded. In relation to countries outside the Rand Monetary Area, Lesotho applies exchange controls that are largely similar to those of South Africa and Swaziland. Administration of Control The Lesotho Monetary Authority controls external currency transactions. Au tho r i ty to approve certain types of current payments is delegated to commercial banks up to established limits. Lesotho's trade licensing arrangements are designed mainly to raise revenue and to prevent tax evasion; permits are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Indus try. Licenses for financial insti- tutions and insurance agents are issued by the Monetary Authority. Imports and Import Payments Lesotho is a member of a customs union with Bots- wana, South Africa, and Swaziland, and there are no restrictions on imports originating in any country of the customs union. Imports from countries outside the customs union are usually licensed in conformity with South Africa's import regulations; Lesotho reserves the right to restrict certain imports. Import permits are valid for all countries and entitle the holder to buy the foreign exchange required to make the import payment upon customs entry. There are no bilateral payments arrangements. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licensing for revenue purposes; this requirement, in practice, is restricted to the export of diamonds. Most exports are shipped with- out license to or through South Africa. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transactions, although subject to control, are not normally restricted. Authority to approve some types of current payments has been delegated to authorized dealers up to estab- lished limits, such as the basic exchange allowance for tourist travel (the equivalent of M 3,000 in a calendar year for an adult and M 1,200 for a child) and a smaller annual allocation for travel to neighboring countries. The allowance for business travel is M 4,500 in a calendar year. Capital Applications for outward t rans fe rs of capital are considered on their merits. The rulings on applications for inward and ou twa rd capital t rans fe rs may depend on whether the applicant is a temporar i ly resident foreign national, a nonresident, or a resident. At present, the financial maloti market is open only to nonresidents and immigrants who intend to reside in Lesotho for not more than three years. Certain tax incentives for inward direct investment are provided to manu fac tu r ing under- takings approved by a Pioneer Industries Board under the Pioneer Indus tr ies Encouragement Act, 1969. Emigrant fam i l ies whose net assets do not exceed M 20,000 may transfer M 10,000 outside Lesotho as a settling-in allowance, and those with larger assets may transfer 50 per cent of the total, up to M 30,000 for a fam i ly or M 10,000 for an ind iv idua l. Any excess must be credited to a Blocked Account; em igran ts may use such blocked funds up to an amount of M 30,000 a family or M 10,000 a single person to subscribe to non- resident bonds. The free transfer of income f rom an emigrant's blocked assets is limited to an annual maxi- mum of M 100,000 a fam i ly un i t. An emigrant fam i ly of a person may export one automobile only, with a maximum value of M 10,000, provided the automobile was purchased at least one year pr ior to emigration. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell any gold coin that is legal tender. Changes during 1980 January 19. The Lesotho Monetary Au tho r i ty was established to assume the func t ions previously performed by the Commissioner of Financial Institutions. 259 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO January 22. A national currency, the maloti, equal in value to the South African rand was introduced, but the latter remained legal tender. March 1. An import surcharge of 7.5 per cent levied on imports into the customs union was abolished, April 18. Exchange and trade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe (formerly Rhodesia) were lifted. 260 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Liberia is the Liberian Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar at $1 = US$1. There is no official intervention. U.S. currency is legal tender in Liberia and circulates along with Liberian coinage. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (for Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Imports and Import Payments There is no general system of import control but the importation of some items is subject to licensing and quantitative restrictions by the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Transportation and the National Invest- ment Commission to protect local industry. These items comprise automobile batteries, biscuits, brooms and brushes, crown corks, exercise books and note pads, flour, insecticides, kitchen towels, roofing nails, paint, paper napkins, rice, sugar, toilet tissues, and wheel- barrows. A few items (e.g., arms and ammunition, explosives, used clothing, and Pharmaceuticals) require prior licenses. Imports of rubber footwear, household candles, safety matches, and powdered detergents have been suspended temporarily. In addition, imports of certain goods (e.g., pornographic literature, narcotics other than for medicinal purposes) and all imports f rom South Africa are prohibited. Petroleum is imported only by the Liberian Petroleum Refining Company, although a private company is the sole distributor of aviation fuel. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. Exports of rice have been temporarily suspended. Export licenses are at present required for precious metals, precious stones, elephant tusks and ivory, wild animals, cement, agricultural products other than rubber, flour, and sugar, and certain other items, such as arms and ammunition and explosives. Licenses are generally issued freely and no licenses are required for direct exports by fore ign concession holders; licenses serve mainly to enforce taxation or, for agricultural products, to assure certifica- tion of quality and origin and to safeguard the export monopoly of the Liberian Produce Marketing Corpora- tion. The surrender of export proceeds is not required, and exchange receipts are freely disposable. An export tax is levied on diamonds. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for or receipts f rom invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Under an Investment Incentive Code of 1966 (as amended in 1973), enterprises undertaking new invest- ment projects may be granted a five-year, 90 per cent duty exemption on imports of raw materials and machinery, total tax exemption on reinvested profits, a 50 per cent exemption on distributable profits, and a protective tar iff on competing imported products. The five-year incentive may be renewed for a fur ther two years in certain circumstances. Gold Residents may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are subject to licenses issued by the Minister of Lands and Mines; import licenses are issued freely but export licenses are granted restrictively. Changes during 1980 April 15. The following regulations were decreed: ( 1) Proceeds of all exports must be surrendered to a licensed commercial bank operating in Liberia; (2) no transfers or payments abroad of funds shall be made by or through a financial institution without prior written approval of the National Bank with the exception of those related to obligations incurred prior to April 15; ( 3) no new loans and /or advances should be granted without prior written approval of the Na t ional Bank; (4) financial institutions must obtain the prior written approval of the National Bank for cash withdrawals from customers' accounts beyond US$1,000 a month for nonbusiness accounts and US$20,000 a month for busi- ness accounts; and (5) import letters of credit may not be opened by a financial ins t i tu t ion w i thout prior wr i t ten approval of the National Bank except that no such approval would be required in respect of letters of credit supported by 100 per cent cash deposit or remittances f rom abroad. (A ll of these regulations were rescinded on May 15.) September 1. In connection w i th the 1980 budget, the following levies were in troduced: (1) An invoice en try fee of ll/2 per cent c.i.f. for du ty-free goods and goods for transsh ipmen t; (2) a fee of 5 per cent for dutiable goods (other than essential goods ); ( 3) a fee of SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya is the Libyan Dinar. The middle rate for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is LD 0.296053 = US$1. The Central Bank of Libya publishes daily buy ing and selling rates for 15 currencies.1 It deals with commercial banks only in pounds sterling and U.S. dollars, at rates fixed daily. The commercial banks are permitted to buy or sell other currencies against pounds sterling and U.S. dol- lars through their foreign correspondents. The banks may not deal among themselves in foreign currencies. Neither authorized banks nor importers or exporters are allowed to enter into forward commitments in foreign currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank, which has delegated some of its powers to the authorized banks. Policy relating to imports and exports is determined by the General People's Committee for the Economy. Prescription of Currency Settlements with other countries are made in con- vertible currencies, usually U.S. dollars or pounds sterling. Certain commercial settlements with Turkey are made through special accounts denominated in U.S. dollars. All settlements with the People's Republic of China, Israel, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident, as defined by the Central Bank, who is gainfully employed in the country is permitted under the exchange control regulations to open and maintain a nonresident account in Libyan dinars with any author- ized bank. Legitimate earnings of such nonresidents, including overtime payments, can be credited to their nonresident accounts. Similarly, authorized banks have authority to credit interest earned on balances in these nonresident accounts. All other credits to nonresident accounts require the prior approval of the Central Bank. (For debits on such accounts see section on Payments for Invisibles, below.) Funds brought in by nonresident contractors under- taking contracts in their own names are required to be kept in "special resident accounts" with a bank. Pay- ments received by contractors in respect of their contracts may also be credited to these accounts. Remittances from these accounts are subject to the 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Lebanese pounds, Netherlands guilders, pounds s ter l ing, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Tunisian dinars, and U.S. dollars. 262 prior approval of the Central Bank a f ter submission of the prescribed evidence. Nonresident-owned capital that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked accounts. With the approval of the Central Bank, funds in blocked accounts (w i th certain exceptions) may be used for expenditures in the Libyan Arab J am ah i r iya up to LD 500 a year to cover the cost of visits by the owner of the funds or a close relative; for payment of legal fees, taxes, etc.; for remittances to the owner of the funds in his country of permanent residence (up to LD 1,000 in a calendar y e a r ); and for remittances in cases of hardship. When the funds have been in a blocked account for five years, they q u a l i fy for rem i t- tance in fu ll to the owner in his country of permanent residence. The blocked accounts of persons (with cer- ta in exceptions) who have left the coun try permanen t ly are being released in installments; balances credited prior to March 31, 1966 have been released. Imports and Import Payments All imports from the People's Republic of Ch ina, Israel, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Imports for trade purposes are under taken exclusively by state- owned enterprises, although resident and nonresident firms unde r tak ing development projects may import items needed to fu r ther the execution of the project. All imports are subject to licensing. The import of some items, inc lud ing alcoholic beverages and narcotics, is prohibited. Imports of cer- tain other commodities are restricted, including f r u it juice, i n f a nt food, diet items for diabetics, biscuits, sweets, chocolate, cheese, bu t ter, cream, vegetable oil, camel fodder, cement, iron reinforcements, t imber for bu i ld ing purposes, san i ta ry articles, taps, tiles, plaster, electric household appliances, television sets and acces- sories, video sets, detergents, f u r n i t u r e, batteries, weapons, and explosives. Only government agencies may act as commercial agents, inc lud ing import agents, for foreign companies. A state-owned company has a monopoly over the import of gold and precious metals. Exchange permits required for impor ts are read i ly grarited by the authorized banks, provided that there is a firm contract and an import license has been obtained and, if the import is to be made on a le t ter of credit basis, that a marine insurance policy f rom a local in su r- ance company is submitted before the letter of credit is established. However, no letter of credit in respect of the import of consumer durab le goods may be opened by an authorized bank without ob ta in ing a cash ma rg in of 25 per cent of the import price. Impor ters mu st present to the bank g ran t ing the exchange pe rm i t, w i t h in two months of customs clearance, a customs dec lara t ion con f i rm ing clearance and s ta t ing the va lua t ion. The ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution approval of the Exchange Control Depa r tment of the Central Bank is required for advance payments. Deferred payments ( for up to 90 days a f ter customs clearance) and payments for consignment shipments may be approved by the authorized banks. Imports are subject to customs du ty and to customs surcharges totaling 15 per cent of the applicable customs duty. Payments for Invisibles The authorized banks are empowered to approve applications by residents to remit fore ign exchange up to LD 100 in a calendar year for mee t ing genuine personal commitments abroad of a noncomme rc ial nature, inc lud ing fam i ly assistance and g i f t s. They may also approve allocations for travel as indicated below, as well as transfers to residents und e r t ak ing studies abroad, up to l im i ts prescribed for various countries, plus tuition fees, an allowance for books, etc. Rem i t- tances f rom nonresident accounts m a in t a in ed by non- resident workers and technicians may be approved by authorized banks up to 60 per cent of net sa la ry each month; for those workers whose con trac ts specify that lodging and /or board will be made ava i lab le free of charge by the employer, rem i t tances up to 90 per cent of net salary are permitted. A nonres ident w i fe or the w ife of a nonres iden t, when employed in the coun t ry, is permitted to rem it abroad up to 90 per cent of net sa lary each month. Banks may issue travelers checks and foreign currency notes to nonres ident workers and tech- nicians within the limits mentioned. App l ica t ions for amounts in excess of these limits must be subm i t ted to the Central Bank. Such nonresidents may t ake w i th them when going abroad on vacation or on final departure certain goods, the value of which is not deducted f rom the balances in the ir non res ident accounts; a nonresident may also export one automobile du r ing his stay in the country. All other paymen ts for invisibles, as well as paymen ts in excess of the approval au tho r i ty delegated to the banks, require prior approval f rom the Central Bank. App l ica t ions are considered on their merits. Persons leaving the coun t ry may take w i th them Libyan currency notes not exceeding a total of LD 20 (LD 10 for children under 1 2 ); these may not be spent or exchanged outside the country, but are intended for immed ia te expenses upon re tu rn. Residents leav ing for personal travel abroad, including tourist travel may, in addition, take out foreign exchange in the fo rm of foreign currency notes, travelers checks, and letters of credit not exceeding a total value of LD 750 (LD 375 for children under 12) in a calendar year as a basic travel allowance; the exchange may be obtained f rom any authorized bank in the Libyan A rab Jamah ir iya. Add i t ional amounts may be gran ted in special c ircum- stances. Pilgrims are entitled to a special quota, va ry ing between adults and children. For business travel, resi- LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA den ts may take out the equivalent of LD 1,000 a t r ip, sub ject to a m a x im um of LD 2,500 in a ca lendar yea r. A ll fa res may be settled in L ibyan d i n a r s. Tempo ra ry residents may take out any travelers checks or fo re ign cu r rency notes wh ich they had prev ious ly b rought in and declared to the customs. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required only for fish, raw wool, h ides and sk in s, and for commod i t ies wh ich are not of Libyan o r ig in. Export proceeds must be received th rough an au tho r ized b ank w i th in s ix mon ths of sh ipm en t. Exports of nonmone ta ry gold (o ther t h an for processing a b r o a d ), vegetable oils, and scrap metals are p roh ib i t ed; exports or re-exports of whea t, wheat flour, crushed whea t, ba r ley, rice, tea, sugar, toma to paste, and maca ron i, wh i ch are subsidized commod i t ies, are also proh ib i ted. A ll expo r ts to Israel and South A f r i ca are proh ib i ted. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts f rom i n v i s i b l es must be su r rende red. Travelers checks or fore ign cu r r en cy notes may be encashed only at an au tho r ized b ank or at an exchange office l icensed by the Cen tral B ank. Travelers en t e r ing the coun t ry may b r ing w i th them L iby an cu r r en cy notes, not exceed ing LD 20, and o ther cu r rency notes, trave lers checks, letters of credit, secur i t ies, coupons, and o ther nego t iab le i n s t r um e n ts in u n l im i t ed amoun ts. Capital Under the p rov is ions of Foreign Cap i tal Inves tment Law No. 37 of J u ly 31, 1968, fo re ign cap i tal inves ted in p ro jec ts deemed to con t r ibu te to the econom ic deve lopment of the coun t ry, as well as p ro f i ts thereon, and sa lar ies of f o r e i gn s ta ff employed on such projects, may be t ran s fe r red f r e e ly to the coun t ry of o r ig in, pro- vided th at the pa id-up cap i tal is not less than LD 200,000 and that at least 51 per cent of the shares are held by fo r e ign na t iona ls. Foreign pa r t ic ipa t ion in i n d u s t r i al ven tu res set up a f ter March 20, 1970 is pe rm i t ted on a m i n o r i ty basis, but only if it leads to increased pro- duc t ion in excess of local requ iremen ts, in t roduc t ion of the latest technology, and cooperation w i th fo re ign f i rms in expo r t ing the su rp lus p roduc t ion. Insu rance companies and fo re ign shareholdings in banks have been na t iona l ized. Commerc ial firms have been Libyanized in v a ry ing degrees, and 51 per cent or more of the L ibyan in teres ts of the in t e rn a t ion al oil companies have been nationalized. Real estate may be sold only to Libyans, other than in excep t ional c i rcums tances. The net sales proceeds a f ter tax of real estate be long ing to fo re ign na t iona ls are t ran s fe rab le, subject to the pr ior approval of the Cen tral Bank. Non res iden t -owned capital that is not perm i t ted to be t rans fe r red abroad is credited to 263 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA blocked accounts (see section on Nonres ident Accoun ts, above). Residents require the pr ior approval of the Central Bank to borrow f u n ds abroad. As a rule, residents require prior permission to purchase real estate abroad or to invest abroad in securities. Residents tak ing up permanent resident abroad are pe rm i t ted to t ran s fer up to LD 5,000 for a fam i ly; applications may be sub- mitted for the release of the balance of their assets over a number of years. The investment of na t ional capital abroad is governed by Law No. 25 of April 20, 1973. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm other than bars. An official entity, the Com- mercial Gold Fund, imports processed and unprocessed gold and precious metals. The Gold Fund sells gold in bars to domestic goldsmiths for m anu f a c tu re at prices announced f rom time to time. The gold is processed before it may be sold to the public. Unworked gold is subject to an import du ty of 15 per cent. Changes during 1980 January 1. Importation of passenger vehicles was suspended un t il the impor t ing agencies bu i lt up ade- quate stocks of spare parts and established adequate ma in tenance facilities. February 1. The basic travel allowance for residents was increased f rom LD 300 to LD 750 a year. April 18. Exchange and trade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe ( fo rme r ly Rhodesia) were l if ted. May 5. Libyan bankno tes in denominations of LD 10 and LD 5 and those showing the Libyan pound as a un it of cu r rency ceased to be legal tender. 264 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Madagascar is the Malagasy Franc. Between its currency and the French f ranc, the inter- vention currency, Madagascar ma in ta ins a fixed rate of FMG 1 = F 0.02. The official buying and selling rates for the French f ranc are FMG 49.75 and FMG 50.25, respectively, per F 1. The Central Bank quotes exchange rates for seven other currencies1 based on the buying and selling rates for the French f ranc in various exchange markets. The buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1980 were FMG 200.00 and FMG 202.01, respectively, per US$1. The authorized banks are not permitted to ma in ta in an exchange position in any foreign currency although they may hold trade bills as fo re ign assets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. Administration of Control All countries other than Madagascar itself are con- sidered fore ign coun tr ies, and financial relations with all foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Exchange control is administered by the External Finance Office of the Directorate of the Treasury, which also supervises borrowing and lending abroad by resi- dents, the issue, sale, or introduction of fo re ign securities in Madagascar, all outward investments, and inward direct investment. Some of the approval authority for exchange control has been delegated to authorized inter- mediaries, and all exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through such inter- mediaries. Import licenses, including those for gold, are issued by the Directorate of External Trade in the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Export authori- zations are issued either by the Directorate or by other specified public agencies. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized intermediaries which may deal with the Central Bank only in French francs or in the other quoted currencies.1 Nonresident Accounts The principal type of nonresident account is the Foreign Account in Malagasy Francs. These accounts may be debited and credited only for transactions between nonresidents and for explicitly authorized transactions between residents and nonresidents. When Malagasy f rancs accruing to a nonresident are not eligible for credit to a Foreign Account, they must be credited to a Special Account, balances in which may be used by the holder for personal expenses in Mada- 1 Belgian francs, deutsche mark, Italian lire, Ne ther lands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. gascar, subject to a limit of FMG 20,000 a day for the account holder and FMG 10,000 a day for each accom- pany ing fam i ly member. Imports and Import Payments Impor ters require the approval of the M in is try of Economy and Commerce be fo re they are permitted to engage in import activities. Impor ts are grouped into two broad categories: those authorized w i th in the f ramewo rk of the annual impo rt program and those that are prohibited. There are two categories of quotas, those open to merchants and those open to industrial enter- prises and other impor ters who are final users of the product. Impo r ts of f r u it ju ices are conditional upon purchases of domestic f r u it juices. The import of cer- ta in items, inc lud ing alcoholic beverages, rice, wheat flour, vegetable oils, and cement, is reserved for the Regie Malgache des Monopoles Fiscaux and the govern- ment-owned t rad ing firms (Roso, SINPA, and SONACO ). All import transactions valued at FMG 10,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The settlement of all import transac t ions is subject to prior authorization by the Central Bank. This Central Bank au tho r iza t ion for each transac t ion is represented by a certificate, issued by the commercial bank concerned, which is requ i red to clear the merchandise through cus- toms. The impo rt license entitles importers to purchase the necessary exchange (but not earlier than eight days be fo re shipment when a documen ta ry credit is opened ). There has been an accumulation of arrears of pay- ments for imports. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles require the prior approval of the Ministry of F inance and Planning. For some transactions the approval au thor i ty has been dele- gated to authorized intermediaries, either up to specified l im i ts or for any amount that is properly documented. Res iden ts may purchase fore ign exchange for tour ism equ iva lent to FMG 75,000 a person a tr ip, for up to two t r ips a year (FMG 35,000 for children under t e n ), although an individual can use the entire annual limit of FMG 150,000 if he under takes to make only one tr ip du r ing the year. Any fo re ign exchange rema in ing after re tu rn to Madagascar must be surrendered. For business travel fore ign exchange may be purchased up to the equivalent of FMG 10,000 a person a day, subject to a m a x im um of FMG 200,000 a person a trip, for any number of trips a year.2 Authorized banks may not sell fo re ign bankno tes in excess of the equivalent of FMG 20,000 a person a t r ip for tour ist or business 2 On February 5, 1981 the annual exchange allocation for tour ist travel was reduced f rom FMG 150,000 to FMG 100,000 ( f rom FMG 70,000 to FMG 50,000 for a child under ten years of a g e ); for business trave l, a new limit of FMG 300,000 a person a year was in t roduced, replacing the previous limit of FMG 200,000 a trip. 265 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR travel. Applications for additional amounts, and appli- cations for exchange for any other type of travel, must be submitted to the Ministry of Finance and Planning. Applications for additional foreign exchange for bona fide business trips and for medical treatment abroad are generally approved, but not for tourism. Allocations for different types of travel may not be combined without the prior approval of the Directorate of the Treasury. There are limits for educational expenses and certain other current invisibles. Dividends are transferable in full when distributed by industrial firms and up to 75 per cent in other cases; they may be transferred only to non- resident physical or juridical persons of foreign nation- ality. There have been delays in the remittance of cer- tain payments for invisibles which have led to an accumulation of arrears. The transfer of savings f rom wages and salaries earned by a foreigner work ing in Madagascar is permitted, upon presentation of his work contract and employment permit, and provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. The amounts allowed are up to 25 per cent of the net salary for bachelors and persons having their fam i ly in Madagascar, and up to 45 per cent for those whose fam i ly lives outside Madagascar (100 per cent for both categories dur ing leave spent outside Madagascar); in all cases, the transferable amount may not exceed FMG 300,000 a person a month. Resident and nonresident travelers to fore ign coun- tries may take out up to FMG 5,000 in Malagasy bank- notes. Nonresident travelers may take out any remain- ing foreign banknotes and coin and other foreign means of payment declared by them on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to all destinations require an export permit (autorisation d'exportation) issued by the Directorate of External Trade or the appropriate commodity stabiliza- tion office. Export proceeds received in foreign curren- cies must be surrendered; such proceeds normally must become due not later than one month after arrival of the goods at their destination unless the Directorate of the Treasury waives this requirement. All export transac- tions valued at FMG 50,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary and the exporter must sign a commitment to repatriate the foreign currency proceeds. The government-owned trading firms (CoROi, Roso, SICE, SINPA, SONACO, and SOMACODIS) have a monopoly over exports of certain important commodities such as coffee, cloves, pepper, and butter beans. Proceeds from Invisibles All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income or proceeds accruing in those countries or from nonresidents, must be repa- triated within one month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of 266 means of payment denominated in a foreign currency and up to FMG 5,000 in Malagasy banknotes. Capital Capital movements between Madagascar and foreign countries and between residents and nonresidents are subject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance and Planning. Special controls are maintained over borrow ing abroad, over inward direct investment and all ou tward investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in Madagascar. Foreign direct investments in Madagascar,3 require prior approval of the Minister of Finance and Planning (the Directorate of the T reasu ry ). Malagasy direct investments abroad4 are prohibited without special au thor iza t ion from the M in is t ry of Finance and Plan- ning. The total or partial liquidation of such invest- ments must be declared to the Ministry of Finance and P lann ing. Both the mak ing and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Malagasy investments abroad or foreign investments in Madagascar, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days following each transaction. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company, but such participa- tion is subject to prior declaration to the M in is try of Finance and Planning. The issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in Madagascar requires prior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance and Planning. Exempt f rom au tho r iza t ion are operations in connection with shares similar to securities whose issue, offering, or sale in Madagascar has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or ju r id ical persons, whether public or private, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Planning, although loans contracted by authorized banks or credit institutions with special legal status are exempt. Lending abroad is subject to author- ization by the M in is t ry of Finance and Planning. In accordance with the Investment Code of Septem- ber 19, 1973, foreign or domestic enterprises of special impor tance for the economy may be granted preferential trea tment in accordance with an "order of approval" (arrete d'agrement). Such enterprises may benefit from specified advantages relating to import and export duties, income taxes, import licenses, the introduction of quotas for competing imports, etc. The same benefits may be granted temporarily to investments not qua l i fy ing for an "order of approval." Exceptional treatment beyond the benefits provided for by the Investment Code and other existing legislation may be granted in a participa- tion contract (contrat de participation). 3 Including those made by companies in Madagascar that are directly or indirectly under fore ign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Madagascar of foreign companies. 4 Including those made through fo re ign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Madagascar and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Madagascar. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Madagascar. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Exempt f rom this require- ment are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Central Bank; (2) imports and exports of manu- factured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports by travelers of gold jewelry and other arti- cles of gold up to 500 grams a fam i ly and numismatic items up to 200 grams a family. Imports of gold, whether licensed or exempt from license, are subject to customs declaration. Newly mined gold must be surrendered to the Directorate of Industry and Mines, which, in principle, must deliver it to the Central Bank after processing. Changes during 1980 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 267 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Malawi is the Malawi Kwacha, which is pegged to the SDR at MK 1.054074 = SDR 1. The middle rate of the Malawi kwacha for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, quoted by the Reserve Bank of Malawi is determined on the basis of the daily calculations of the U.S. dollar-SDR rate. On Decem- ber 31, 1980 the Reserve Bank's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were MK 0.8238 and MK 0.8300, respectively, per US$1. The Reserve Bank also quotes buying and selling rates for the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, and the pound sterling, which are determined on the basis of the appropriate daily cross rates in the London market. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank under authority delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. Import policy is formulated by the Minister of Trade, Industry, and Tourism, who also is responsible for the issue of import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Payments to nonresidents may be made in Malawi kwacha to the credit of a nonresident account maintained by the recipient or in any convertible foreign cu r rencyl traded in Malawi. Payments from residents of other countries may be received in Malawi kwacha from a nonresident account or in any convertible foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Malawi kwacha held by residents of other countries are designated nonresident accounts. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds from sales of any convertible foreign currency, with authorized payments in Malawi kwacha by residents to foreign countries, and with transfers from other nonresident accounts. Balances on these accounts may be used to make payments to residents of Malawi for any purpose and may be transferred freely to other nonresident accounts; these accounts may also be debited for pay- ments to the account holder while he is temporarily resident in Malawi. Blocked Accounts in Malawi kwacha are held with authorized banks by residents of any country other than Malawi. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Normally, approval is given for the investment of bal- ances of Blocked Accounts in an approved manner. The interest on Blocked Account balances is freely t rans fe r- able to the account holder's country of residence. 1 Und er Malawi's exchange con t rol regu la t ions, all currenc ies other th an the Malawi kwacha are considered fore ign currencies. 268 Imports and Import Payments For a number of items2 import licenses are required regardless of the country of origin. All other goods3 may be imported under an open general license when originating in Commonwealth countries or in non- Commonwealth countries that are members of the GATT (except Po land). For other countries (including Po land) an import license is required for all com- modities except certain items that are free from licens- ing irrespective of origin, such as petroleum products, exposed cinematographic films, samples, and advertising materials. Except with the permission of the exchange control authorities, payments for imports from all countries must be made af ter the arrival of the goods in Malawi. Applications for foreign exchange for these payments are referred to the exchange control authorities for formal approval subject only to the presentation of relevant import documents. Any transfer of funds in anticipation of imports is prohibited, except with the permission of the exchange control authorities. Payments against sight letters of credit and sight bills of exchange are not permitted. Imports may be paid for in Malawi currency to an appropriate local nonresident account or in any convertible currency. An advance deposit equivalent to 20 per cent of the c.i.f. value of the goods is required in respect of certain imports. The deposit must be made at the time orders are placed through the commercial banks; the deposits are kept in interest-bearing accounts at the commercial banks and are released when payment for the import is being made. A surcharge of 20 per cent is levied on most goods imported into Malawi, irrespective of origin; the surcharge is calculated on 120 per cent of the sum of the value for customs duty purposes and any customs duty payable. For certain imports that are channeled through clearing and for- ward ing agents, a prepayment of 50 per cent of the applicable port duties and clearing charges is required. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports require prior approval of the exchange control authori- ties. For other purposes such as foreign travel, foreign exchange is provided up to certain limits by authorized dealers without prior reference to the exchange control authorities. The basic exchange allowance for private travel is MK 20 a day for an adult, with a maximum of MK 600 a calendar year, and MK 10 a day for each 2 Certain agricultural and food products, new (military type) and used clothing, gold, sugar, wheat flour, cement, fertilizers, newsprint and certain paper products, pencils, ball-point pens, office stapling machines and staples, printing inks, erasers, hand-operated numbering stamps, flick knives, explosives, arms and ammunition, game traps, mist nets, wild animals, live fish, cassava, and copyright articles. 3 A licensing system based on tariff quotas and linked to purchases of domestic substitutes is applied to imports of clothing items under two ta r i ff headings. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution child under 18 years of age, with a maximum of MK 300 a calendar year for children between 10 and 18, and of MK200 a year for children under 10. Annual allow- ances are not cumulative but may be increased by up to 50 per cent if the traveler has not applied for a travel allowance during the preceding three years. Allocations are subject to a combined maximum of MK 2,000 a year for a fam i ly traveling together. The basic exchange allowance for business travel is MK 40 a day, up to MK 400 a trip for any number of trips a year. Exchange is provided, subject to certain limits, for other purposes such as education, medical treatment, and fam i ly remit- tances. Applications for amounts exceeding the standard allocations may be submitted to the exchange control authorities. Foreign nationals employed in Malawi on contracts and holding a temporary employment permit are allowed to remit up to two thirds of their current net earnings to their country of normal residence. Travelers may take out up to MK 20 in Malawi cur- rency and the equivalent of MK 20 in foreign currency in addition to their basic travel allowance. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of goods of any description that exceed MK 100 in value are not allowed, unless the Controller of Customs and Excise is satisfied that payment has been made or will be made in an appropriate manner to a resident of Malawi not later than six months a f ter the date of exportation. Certain commodities4 are subject to export licensing, mainly to ensure the adequacy of domestic supplies. Export proceeds in foreign currency must be sold to an authorized dealer. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in any foreign currency must be sold to an authorized dealer. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes and coin that may be imported by travelers, but not more than MK 20 in Malawi currency notes and coin may be imported. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted, with the exception that the tak ing up of loans f rom abroad by residents requires pr ior exchange control approval, which is normally granted, provided that the terms of repay- ment, including the servicing costs, are acceptable. Out- ward transfers of capital are controlled, but nonresidents 4 Implements of war, petroleum products, nickel, atomic energy materials, and certain agricultural and animal products. MALAWI are permitted to repatriate their investments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original investment was made with funds brought into the country; there are no restrictions on the t rans fer abroad of dividends and profits of foreign-owned companies, provided that no recourse is being made to local borrowing. Residents may not purchase any foreign securities without specific exchange control approval. In general, residents are not permitted to transfer capital abroad and, with certain exceptions, they are required to offer for sale to an authorized dealer any foreign exchange that accrues to them. Residents require prior approval to lend to nonresidents or to resident firms controlled directly or indirectly f rom outside Malawi. Approval to lend to nonresident-controlled firms may be withheld if it is felt there is excessive recourse to local borrow ing and that a firm has brought in insu f f ic ient working capi- tal from abroad. All applications for emigrants' allowances must be submitted to the exchange control authorities for approval: ( 1) Persons 50 years of age and over are allowed exchange up to MK 15,000 whether single or married. (2) Married persons under 50 are allowed MK 6,000 on depar ture, together with MK 500 for each child, up to a max imum of MK 8,000 for a family. (3) Unmarr ied persons under 50 years of age are allowed MK 3,000 on depar ture. (4) The balance of the emigrant's funds is blocked, but he is permitted to transfer to his new country of residence a sum equal to the original emigration allowance on each ann iversary of his departure from • Malawi, up to a max imum of MK 8,000. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Malawi for num isma t ic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and author- ized indus tr ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold at home or abroad in any form other than jewelry. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Minister of Trade, Industry, and Tourism in consultation w i th the M in i s t ry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1980 January 17. Exchange and trade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe (former ly Rhodesia) were lifted. 269 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Malaysia is the Ringgit. The external value of the ringgit is determined on the basis of its rela- tionship to a weighted basket of currencies of Malaysia's major trading partners. The exchange rate of the ringgit in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is determined in the foreign exchange market, and the Central Bank of Malaysia intervenes in order to promote relative stability in the value of the ringgit in relation to the basket of currencies. Rates for all other currencies are determined on the basis of the ringgit-U.S. dollar rate and the U.S. dollar rates for those currencies in markets abroad. The buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1980 were M$2.1985 and M$2.2240, respectively, per US$1. The commercial banks are free to determine and quote exchange rates for all currencies to customers and are permitted to deal forward in all currencies. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Malaysia forma l ly accepted the obligations of Ar t i- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from November 11, 1968. Administration of Control The Central Bank administers exchange control on behalf of the Malaysian Government throughout Malay- sia, the Governor of the Bank being the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Most of the authority for approving payments abroad is delegated to authorized banks. The authority for import control rests with the Central Gov- ernment. The day-to-day administration of import con- trol throughout Malaysia is carried out jointly by the Ministry of Trade and Industry and the Royal Customs and Excise. Prescription of Currency All payments to countries other than Israel and South Africa may be made either in ringgit through an Exter- nal Account, or in any currency other than Israeli and South African currencies. Receipts from exports to countries other than Israel and South Africa must be obtained according to the time of payment specified in the commercial contract but subject to a maximum period of six months from the date of exportation, either in ringgit obtained from the sale of a specified currency to a bank in Malaysia or in any specified currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Israel and South Africa. Nonresident Accounts The accounts in ringgit of residents of countries other than Malaysia are treated as nonresident accounts and, unless specially restricted, are designated External Accounts. There are no restrictions on debits to Exter- nal Accounts. Credits to these accounts for whatever 270 purpose are freely permitted, subject only to the comple- tion of exchange control forms for amounts above M$5,000; the proceeds from the sale of any foreign cur- rency may be credited to External Accounts. For amoun ts exceeding M$5,000 and up to M$2 million, permission may be given by commercial banks; above M$2 million, permission is given by the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Balances on External Accounts may be transferred to any other account, whether resident or nonresident, and may be converted into any currency except Israeli and South African currencies. Accounts of residents of Israel and South Africa are designated as Israel Accounts and South African Accounts, respec- tively. All debits and credits to such accounts require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Tar iffs and import controls of the various parts of Malaysia have been fully unified, although a permit is still required for the movement of a few goods between the three territories of Malaysia for reasons of health and also to protect a few local industries in Sabah and Sarawak. Most imports are permitted freely. Depend- ing on the nature and origin of the goods, specific licenses are required for certain imports for reasons of health, security, or public policy; various conditions must be satisfied before licenses for such goods are issued. Certain other imports are subject to quantitative restrictions as a temporary measure to protect local industries; these restrictions are reviewed from time to time. Imports f rom Israel and South Africa (or any terri- tory administered by these coun tr ies) are prohibited. Impor ts f rom the People's Republic of China are subject to specific license, and applications to import must be subm i t ted through PERNAS, except for items which are per ishab le or subject to quan t i ta t ive restriction. Imports f r om the German Democratic Republic and the Demo- c ra t ic People's Republic of Korea also require specific licenses. Imports of motor vehicles are subject to specific licensing with quantitative restriction. Movements of live animals between Peninsular Malaysia, Sabah, and Sarawak are subject to movement permits issued by the Ve te r ina ry Depar tmen t. Imports of l ive animals (except sheep and goa ts), bones, and bone meal from Brunei, Bu rma, Indonesia, Democratic Kampuchea, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Thailand, and Viet Nam requ i re a specific license. Imports of primates are pro- hibited from all sources, except under specific license. Payment for permitted imports is allowed af ter exchange control requirements have been met. V i r tua l ly all imports into Malaysia ( inc lud ing Penang but excluding Labuan) are subject to a surtax of 5 per cent ad valorem. Some essential goods, such as rice, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution salt, and kerosene, are exempt, and a drawback may be granted on goods intended for re-export or for export after processing. In addition, most imports into Malay- sia (excluding Labuan) are subject to a sales tax; the standard rate of tax is 5 per cent but for certain luxury goods it is 10 per cent. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Israel and South Africa may be made without restriction after exchange control requirements have been met. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange made available for travel abroad. Remittances to nonresidents of dividends, interest, and profits on all bona fide investments are permitted, subject only to the completion of exchange control forms for amounts in excess of M$5,000. Unless special permission is obtained, not more than M$5,000 in Malaysian notes may be taken out of Malaysia by travelers. There are no restrictions on the export of currency notes of other countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are totally pro- hibited. The customs areas and export control systems between the three territories of Malaysia have been harmonized. Exchange control forms have to be com- pleted and authorized by banks in Malaysia for exports valued at M$5,000 f.o.b. or more ( for exports to Indo- nesia, forms are not required except where exports are valued at more than M$ 100,000). Proceeds from exports must be received according to the time of pay- ment specified in the commercial contract, but subject to a maximum period of six months from the date of export, either in a specified currency or in ringgit obtained from the sale of a specified currency to a bank in Malaysia. Exports of rubber from Peninsular Malay- sia require a certificate issued by the Malaysian Rubber Exchange and Licensing Board. Exports of cement, scrap iron, steel bars, formic acid, wheat flour, rice bran, and sugar are subject to licensing. Also subject to licensing are exports of all textiles, certain confectionery items, tiles, fish meal, bricks, "dollar area goods," all commodities used in barter trade, and other goods as specified in the second schedule of the Customs (Prohi- bition of Exports) Order, 1978, of the 1967 Customs Act. Proceeds from Invisibles The exchange control authorities do not regulate MALAYSIA exchange receipts f rom invisibles, but receipts from exports are subject to exchange control. Travelers may bring in up to M$ 10,000 in Malaysian currency notes; otherwise, permission is required for the import of Malaysian notes. No limitations are imposed on the import by travelers of currency notes of other countries. Capital Inward investment covered by the guidelines issued on February 20, 1974 (regarding the acquisition of assets, mergers, and takeovers) requires prior approval by the Foreign Investment Committee. The proceeds of investments may be repatriated freely on resale, subject to the completion of exchange control formalities for amounts above M$5,000. Malaysian residents require approval for borrowings from nonresidents in either ringgit or in foreign currencies in excess of M$ 100,000. Companies in Malaysia controlled by nonresidents are permitted to borrow in Malaysia up to M$500,000 with- out exchange control approval. The permission of the Controller of Foreign Exchange is freely given for direct and po r t fo l io investment by Ma lays ian residents in coun- tries other than Israel and South Africa. Gold Residents of Malaysia are permitted to purchase, sell, borrow, lend, hold, or export gold, provided that the weight of ind iv idual bars and wafers does not exceed 100 grams. A traveler may import, on one's own person or in personal luggage, any number of gold coins issued by the Central Bank of Malaysia but only one piece of any other type of gold coin, medallion, bar, or wa fer not exceeding 100 grams in weight. The impor- ta t ion of gold is otherwise regulated by specific license issued by the Ministry of Trade and Industry, the policy being to limit such importation to authorized dealers who are required to quote daily buying and selling prices for the wa fe rs wh ich they re ta il to the public. Changes during 1980 June 2. Exchange and trade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe (former ly Rhodesia) were lifted. October 23. The public became eligible to purchase, sell, borrow, lend, hold, or export any amount of gold provided that the weight of individual bars and wafers did not exceed 100 grams. (Previously, Malaysians were not permitted to purchase, sell, lend, hold, or export gold in any form that had not been materially increased in va lue by skilled craf tsmansh ip .) 271 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALDIVES (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Maldives is the Ma ld iv ian Rupee. U.S. dollars and, to a limited extent, certain other cur- rencies circulate freely in Maldives along with the Mal- divian rupee. In principle, the exchange rate of the Maldivian rupee is determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market where transactions ma in ly take place in banknotes and trav- elers checks. No ma rg ins in respect of exchange transac- tions are officially ma in ta ined. Since* April 1979 the State Trading Organ iza t ion has intervened by ins t ruc t ing the commercial banks to buy fore ign exchange at the rate of Mai Rs 7.50 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. A rate of Mai Rs 3.93 = US$1 is used by the Government for accounting purposes, including the va lua t ion of import duties. Administration of Control There is no exchange control legislation. In the absence of a central bank, exchange and t rade controls are administered by the Department of F inance, wh ich also issues import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency There are no rules prescribing the currenc ies in which transactions between residents and nonresidents must be settled. In practice, all receipts by tourist resorts and guest houses are in U.S. dollars. No bilateral pay- ments agreements are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by resi- dents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments The importation of alcoholic beverages and a few other items is restricted for reasons of public policy. Import operations may be conducted only a f ter being registered and licensed at the Department of Finance. Foreign exchange needed to effect payments for impor ts by the private sector must be obtained in the fore ign exchange market. Most staple commodities ( inc lud ing rice, sugar, wheat flour, and petroleum products) are imported by the State Trading Organization. Payments for Invisibles The private sector may make payments for all current invisibles through the fore ign exchange market. Pay- ments by the public sector are made f rom the Govern- ment's foreign exchange account. Travelers may freely take out any amount in domestic or foreign currency, without any restriction. Exports and Export Proceeds The Government has a monopoly, operated by the State Trading Organization, over the export of most fish. 272 Export and re-export operations are conducted only a f ter being registered and licensed at the Department of Finance. Export duties are levied on ambergr is exported by a Maldivian, goods exported by a Maldivian jo in t ly with a fore igner, and goods exported by a fore igner; re-exports are exempt. Exporters of du t iab le goods are required to import goods or fore ign exchange to the value of the goods exported, w i th in the period of t ime specified in the license. In the case of du ty-free exports, exporters mus t, upon request by the Gove rnmen t, import specified goods in an amount not exceeding 33 per cent of the va lue of the goods exported. Proceeds from Invisibles Private sector receipts f rom cu r r ent invisibles need not be surrendered and may be disposed of freely through the foreign exchange market. Travelers may br ing in any amount in domestic or fore ign currency, w i thout any restriction. Capital Residents and non res iden ts may free ly impo rt and export capital through the fore ign exchange market, and residents do not require permission to maintain foreign cu r rency accounts at home or abroad. Inward direct inves tment requires approval. Transfers of profits are permitted, and exemptions f rom taxes other than tourism taxes may be granted for a period of up to ten years. Gold Transactions in gold are not subject to regulation. Residents may freely hold and negotiate gold in any form, at home or abroad, and the impo rt and export of gold is not restricted. Changes during 1980 January 1. The law relating to exports and imports was modified, as fo l lows: ( 1) the export of black coral and tortoise shells was proh ib i ted unless in the fo rm of a finished product; (2) all imports, exports, and re-exports were made subject to licensing; (3) export duties were terminated, except on ambergris, goods exported by a Ma ld iv ian na t ional jo in t ly w i th a for- eigner, and goods exported by a foreigner (except re-expor ts); and (4) exporters of dutiable goods were required to import goods or fo re ign exchange in amounts equivalent to the va lue of their exports w i th in time limits specified in the export license; the Government could request exporters of du ty - f ree goods to import specified goods up to an amount equivalent to 33 per cent of the value of goods exported. April 26. The requirement that private exporters of dry salted bonito fish surrender 50 per cent of their proceeds to the Government at an exchange rate of Mai Rs 3.93 per US$1 was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mali is the Mali Franc, which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the rate of MF 1 = F0.01. There is also a fixed rate for CFA francs of MF 2 = CFAF 1. The official buying and selling rates for the French f ranc are MF 100 per F 1. All exchange transactions in French f rancs take place at that official rate. Exchange rates for all other currencies that are officially quoted on the Paris exchange market are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to gold, Mali's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other coun- tries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance and Commerce has sole authority in exchange control matters; certain exchange control powers have been delegated to authorized banks. The Central Bank of Mali is responsible for the control over repatriation of export proceeds. The bilateral payment agreement accounts1 are operated by the Development Bank of Mali. Licenses for imports and exports are issued by the Directorate-General of Economic A f fa i rs in the Ministry of Finance and Commerce. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made in currencies and through accounts established under such agreements. Since Mali is an Operations Account country, settle- ments with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in Mali francs, French francs, or the currency of any Operations Account country. Settlements with all other, countries with which no payments agreement is in force are usually made through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Settle- ments with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea- Bissau, Liberia, Maur i tan ia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone 1Mali maintains bilateral paymen ts accounts with Hung a ry, Morocco, U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. The paymen ts a r rangemen ts with Hungary and Morocco are inoperative. are normally made through the West A f r ican Clearing House Nonresident Accounts The regulations pe r ta in ing to nonresident accounts are, in principle, based on those applied in France. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few commodities are prohibited for health, safe ty, and similar reasons, and licenses are not normally issued for certain other goods. Imports originating in a coun t ry of the West A f r i c an Economic Commun i ty and some imports f rom EC countries of basic necessities require only an import certificate. Imports of all other goods requ ire ind iv idual licenses, and imports from foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. A license is valid for six months bu t, if necessary, may be extended for a fu r ther three mon ths. Imports f rom Israel, Korea, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Imports are licensed in accordance w i th an a n n u al import program. The program consists of two pa r ts: an allocation for c lear ing coun t r ies and one for the convertible area (de f ined as compr is ing all other coun- tries, i n c l u d i ng the coun tr ies in the French Franc A r e a ). Imports may be made e i ther by private importers or by state enterprises, among which the Societe Malienne dTmport-Export (SOM IEX) is the most impor- tant, hav ing a monopoly over the import of a number of items.2 All imports f rom and exports to countries that have payments agreements with Mali are made by SOMIEX. The Office des P rodu i ts Agricoles du Mali (OPAM) has a monopoly over the impo rt and export of cereals. An allocation commission establishes quotas for each private importer on the basis of his tu rnove r. Import licenses are issued to the private importer up to the limit of that quota. The authorized banks are permitted to make foreign exchange available for all licensed imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as def ined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted free ly when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require au thor iza t ion. Transfers of income accru ing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are subject to approval. For tourist travel, residents trave l ing to countries other than France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an annual 2 These include cement, flour, milk, salt, soap, sugar, and tea. 273 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI exchange allocation equivalent to MF 500,000 a person (MF 250,000 for children under 10), which may be allotted on several occasions dur ing the year; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Mali must be sur- rendered. For business travel, the allocation is the equivalent of MF 50,000 a day, subject to a maximum of MF 500,000 a trip.3 The transfer of the entire salary of a foreigner working in Mali is permitted upon pres- entation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period or where there is a reciprocity agreement with the foreigner's country of nationality. Resident travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of MF 50,000 in Mali banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries (MF 5,000 for trips of less than 24 hou rs ). Nonresident travelers may free ly take out foreign banknotes up to the equivalent of MF 200,000; higher amounts may be taken out only if declared upon entry. They may also take out MF 50,000 in Mali banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by other Opera- tions Account countries, and any payments instruments drawn up abroad in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank, and all export proceeds, including those from France and other Operations Account coun- tries, must be repatriated and surrendered within 90 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination. Exports to countries outside the West African Economic Community require individual licenses; those to countries of the West African Economic Community require only a certificate. The export of cotton and groundnuts is reserved, in principle, for SOMIEX, and that of meat and hides and skins for the Societe Malienne du Detail, des Peaux et Cuirs (SOMBEPEC ); in practice, hides and skins may also be exported by private firms and indi- viduals. The marketing of cereals is the responsibility of OPAM. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account 3 Exchange for tourist travel purposes is made available only to persons submitting an exit permit (autorisation de sortie) issued by the Security Services. countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries f rom foreign assets must be collected and surrendered. Resident and non- resident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coin issued by the Central Bank of Mali, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Mali, France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts f rom such countries are permitted "freely. Special controls (in addition to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, although the Development Bank of Mali is exempt from these controls. The special con- trol measures also do not apply to relations with France (as defined above) and the Operations Account countries. Under an Investment Code of March 30, 1976, the Government may grant special privileged status, pro- viding for t rans fe r, tax, and other preferential treatment to foreign investments that would be of special interest to the Malian economy and that are compatible with the goals of the Economic Plan. Gold Travelers may export gold jewelry and personal belongings, other than gold coin and ingots, up to a maximum weight of 500 grams. Commercial imports and exports of gold do not require authorization by the Ministry of Finance and Commerce but are subject to customs declaration as prescribed by the customs regulations. Changes during 1980 April 18. Exchange and trade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe (formerly Rhodesia) were lifted. 274 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Malta is the Malta Pound. The value of the Malta pound is determined on the basis of the fixed relationship between the Malta pound and a trade- weighted basket of currencies1 representing Malta's important trading partners. The Central Bank of Malta fixes daily buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, by weighting the variations in the closing quotations of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the previous day in relation to the other currencies included in the basket. A spread of 0.25 per cent is applied between the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1980 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were US$2.83080 and US$2.81660, respectively, per <£M 1. The Central Bank also quotes daily rates for various other currencies, including the deutsche mark, the Italian lira, and the pound sterling, on the basis of the rate for the U.S. dol- lar and the cross rates for these currencies in the princi- pal exchange markets abroad. The Central Bank's basic rate (middle rate) for the pound sterling on Decem- ber 31, 1980 was £ stg. 118.290 per £,M 100. The commercial banks' rates for currencies not quoted by the Central Bank are based on market rates in London and New York. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank, as agent for the Minister of Finance, Customs, and People's Financial Investments; trade controls are administered by the Director of Trade in the Ministry of Trade. The approval authority for the allocation of foreign exchange for certain purposes has been delegated to the authorized banks, which also may give or renew guarantees for any purpose provided they hold full cash cover in Malta pound or foreign currency for the period of the guarantee. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments to all countries may be made by crediting Malta pounds to an External Account or in any foreign currency;2 the proceeds of exports to all countries may be received in Malta pounds from an External Account or in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Residents of all countries outside Malta may main- tain with authorized banks nonresident accounts in Malta pounds, designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with authorized payments to non- 1 Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 3 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Malta pound. residents, with transfers from other External Accounts, with the proceeds from sales of gold or any foreign currency (including banknotes), and with Malta bank- notes mailed from abroad. External Accounts may be debited freely for payments to residents, for transfers to other External Accounts, for payments in cash in Malta, and for purchases of any foreign currency (including banknotes). Authorized dealers may freely open and maintain Foreign Currency Accounts for nonresidents. These accounts may be credited with payments in foreign currency to the account holder, with transfers from another foreign currency account belonging to a non- resident, and with interest payable on foreign currency accounts. They may be debited for payments by the account holder to residents, for transfers to other Foreign Currency Accounts, and for transfers abroad. Subject to exchange control permission, companies con- trolled by nonresidents or residents may maintain for- eign currency accounts in Malta or abroad. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are subject to specific licensing. Imports of certain items are prohibited; imports of all other commodities are, in principle, sub- ject to either state trading or licensing requirement. Imports subject to state trading include commodities regarded as essential, such as tinned milk, butter, meat, livestock for slaughter, wheat, barley, corn, potatoes, soybean oil, rice, sugar, tinned meat and fish, cheese, coffee, tea, fruit, cement, steel, and timber. Payments for all authorized imports may be made freely, pro- vided that the prescription of currency regulations are complied with and that supporting documents, includ- ing the customs entry form, are submitted to the inter- mediary bank. As a form of exchange cover, and sub- ject to exchange control approval, residents may keep foreign currency accounts to settle import payments; on the same basis, import payments may also be offset against export proceeds. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require the approval of the exchange control authorities but approval authority for most types of payment has been delegated to authorized banks. For residents there is a standard exchange allo- cation for tourist travel of the equivalent of < £M 2 50 a person a trip, and a business travel allowance of £M 250 a trip or <£M 50 a day (for up to 30 days a t r i p ), whichever is the larger. There is also an allow- ance for educational expenses abroad of £M 3,000 a person for an academic year.3 Applications for allow- 3 For purposes of exchange allocations for travel and study, resi- dents are defined as physical persons who are at the time living in Malta and either have lived there for at least three years or intend to continue living there for at least three years. 275 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA ances in excess of these amounts are approved by the Central Bank if it is satisfied that no illicit capital out- flow is involved. Nonresident travelers may import any amount of foreign currency and may export foreign currency up to the amount brought in by them and declared to the customs authorities on entry into Malta. In addition, any traveler may export up to < £M 25 in Malta notes and coin. The transfer of profits, dividends, and interest f rom approved foreign investments requires Central Bank per- mission, which is normally given, after compliance with certain formalities. Life insurance expressed in Malta currency may be contracted with nonresidents lawfully engaged in insurance business in Malta, provided the policy is made for a term exceeding five years and is not linked to equity or property units. Remittances for the maintenance of dependents abroad are allowed on application showing evidence of hardship. Exports and Export Proceeds With the exception of works of art and certain essential goods, all commodities may be exported freely. However, certain textile products for export to the EC are subject to licensing. The proceeds of exports must be surrendered within six months of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign currency notes, but without an authorization by the Minister of Finance, importation of any notes and coin which are or have been legal tender in Malta is permitted only up to <£M 50. Capital No control is exercised over capital receipts, although receipts in foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Payments abroad of a capital na ture require prior approval. Applications for outward direct investment by residents and for direct investment in Malta by nonresidents are considered on their merits. The Immovable Property (Acquisition by Nonresidents) Act, 1974, administered by the Ministry of Finance, prohibits the acquisition of immovable property in Malta by nonresidents,4 with the exception of certain special cases mainly related to economic development. Appli- cations for the acquisition of property for use as a resi- dence by individuals who do not already hold property in Malta are given favorable consideration. The Central Bank has delegated to authorized dealers the authority to approve the acquisition of foreign investments up to the equivalent of <£ M 500 a person a calendar year 4 For the purpose of this Act, the term nonresidents means (1) indi- viduals who are not residents of Malta; (2) any association of persons, or any entity, whether corporate or not, if (a) it is registered outside Malta, or (b) it has its principal place of residence or of business outside Malta, or (c) 20 per cent or more of its share or other capital is owned by a nonresident person, or (d) it is in any manne r, and whether directly or indirectly, controlled by one or more nonresident persons. 276 by resident persons over 18. Purchases of personal real estate situated outside Malta in excess of the <£M 500 limit require prior exchange control approval. Foreign nationals who take up residence outside Malta normally are allowed to transfer all their assets to their new country of residence. Maltese nationals who emigrate may transfer abroad up to <£M 7,500 for each fam i ly; any excess amount is normally released three years after the date of departure on application to the Central Bank. Banks, other than those licensed to borrow and lend only outside Malta, are restricted in the acquisition of net foreign assets. Gold Malta has issued 22 gold coins which are legal tender. Residents are allowed to hold coin and to acquire jewelry but they require exchange control permission to pur- chase and sell any gold coin that is not legal tender. The import of gold coin is controlled to ensure that such coins are genuinely for numismatic purposes. A specific import license is required for imports of gold coin, gold bullion, and manufactured or semimanufac- tured articles of gold; imports of filigree work of gold or silver are prohibited. Authorized importers are per- mitted to import gold bullion only for the purpose of supplying jewelers and other industrial users. The export of gold by residents other than the monetary authorities requires exchange control permission. Gold bullion and gold coin are free of import duty. Changes during 1980 January 15. The Import Duties Act was amended to help implement the increases in customs duties. March 8. Exchange and trade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe (formerly Rhodesia) were lifted. March 17. In a revision of the foreign currency weights for the determination of the external value of the Malta pound to take account of trade flows in 1979 and increases in the cost of oil, the weights of the pound sterling and the U.S. dollar were raised, while those for the other currencies were lowered; this revision resulted in a small appreciation of the Malta pound in effective terms. April 7. In another revision of the foreign currency weights, the weights of all foreign currencies except the pound sterling were increased; the revision was formu- lated so as to restore the Malta pound-U.S. dollar rate in effect on March 17. April 18. Regulation No. 5 of the Import Control Act of 1969 was revised, making importation of all goods subject to licensing requirement. April 28. The currency basket for the Malta pound was revised again, re-establishing the currency propor- tions in effect on March 17. May 7. The Ministry of Trade announced that the authorities planned to issue from time to time a list of commodities which would be exempted from the import licensing requirement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution July 29. The Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries authorized the export of freshly caught swordfish. August 29. An agreement on economic, industrial, and technical cooperation between Malta and Czecho- Slovakia was signed. September 7. An agreement on cooperation on tour- ism was signed between Malta and Iraq. September 15. A protocol relating to financial, eco- nomic, and technical assistance was signed between Malta and Italy. October 9. An agreement on economic, technical, and industrial cooperation was signed between Malta and Greece, MALTA 277 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Maur i tan ia is the Mau r i tan ian Ouguiya. The exchange rate for the ouguiya is deter- mined on the basis of a basket of currencies comprising the Belgian franc, the deutsche mark, the French f ranc, the Italian lira, the pound sterling, the Spanish peseta, and the U.S. dollar. The relative weights assigned to each currency are based on that currency's relative importance in Mau r i tan ia 's total exchange transac t ions and are revised every three months. The opening spot rates of the currencies in the basket against the U.S. dollar on the Paris exchange ma rket are then compared with the exchange rates preva i l ing on specified base dates. The arithmetic average of the sum of the weighted var ia t ions ar is ing f rom this comparison results in either a plus or a m inus overall va r ia t ion of the U.S. dollar in terms of the other currencies in the basket; this var ia t ion is then applied to the ouguiya-U.S. dollar rate prevailing on June 29, 1973 (UM 46.041 = US$1 ), thus obtaining the reference rate for the dollar on the specific day. The daily exchange rate for 15 other currencies,1 including the currencies used in the basket, are obtained from the daily reference rate for the U.S. dollar and the cross rates for these currencies in the Paris exchange ma rke t. The buy ing and se l l ing rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1980 were UM 4 5 . 68 and UM 46.37, respectively, per US$1. Maur i tan ia confines the official exchange rate for the ouguiya within margins of 4.5 per cent; at present, it applies margins of zero per cent in respect of exchange transactions. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Central Bank and the Minister of Finance. The Central Bank has delegated some approval authority to authorized banks. The Central Bank is authorized to obtain any information necessary to compile balance of paymen ts statistics. All exchange transactions relating to fore ign countries must be effected through authorized banks or, in some cases, through the Postal Adm in is tra t ion. Import and export licenses, where required, are issued by the Foreign Trade Department in the Ministry of Commerce. All import licenses require exchange control approval by the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Afr ica are pro- hibited. Settlements with other countries usually take place in convertible currencies. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Moroccan dirhams, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 278 Nonresident Accounts There are two kinds of nonresident accounts in domestic cu r rency: Convertible Accounts, which may be credited only with proceeds from the sale of foreign currency or transfers f rom other Convertible Accounts, and Internal Nonresident Accounts, which may be credited with domestic bankno tes. Convertible Accounts may be debited for any payment w i thout Central Bank approval, but payments to and w i thdrawa ls f r om these accounts may not be made in foreign bankno tes w i th- out special approval f rom the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Israel and South A f r i ca are prohibited, and imports of a few goods are prohibited for reasons of health or public policy. Only holders of impor ter- exporter cards are permitted to engage in import trans- actions. Imports of all commodities must be au thor ized by the Cen tral Bank. The Na t ional Impor t-Export Corpora t ion (SON IMEX) has a monopoly over impor ts of sugar, rice, and green tea. A l though there is no fo rm al impo rt p rog ram, au tho r iza t ions can be den ied if the vo lume of impo r ts in any period is deemed exces- sive. There are some a r rea rs on impo rt paymen t s. Import t ransac t ions must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank, except in the case of impor ts "w i thout payment." A f ter the approval of the Central Bank has been ob ta ined, the import license entitles the impo r ter to purchase the necessary exchange, but not ear l ier than ten days before shipment if a documen tary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the commodities have a l ready arrived. Advance pay- ments for impor ts require prior approval by the Central Bank. The Central Bank authorizes only the payment of import bills quo t ing f.o.b. or c. & f. prices, and all imports must be insured with the Mau r i tan ian State Insurance Company ( SMA R ). There are special arrange- ments for imports in border areas. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel and South A f r ica are p roh ib i ted. Payments for invisibles to other countries are subject to the approval of the Central Bank, which has dele- gated its approval authority for certain specified pay- ments to authorized banks. Basic exchange allocations have been established for various types of invisibles. For tourist travel, residents may obtain an annual exchange allocation equivalent to UM 10,000 a person (UM 5,000 for children under ten ) .2 There are special arrangements for travel to neighboring countries. The use of all travel allocations must be marked in a personal travel exchange booklet. The transfer of savings f rom salaries by fore igners work- 2 Application of these res t r ic t ions was g r adu a l ly relaxed d u r i ng the first half of 1980. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ing in Mauritania is permitted up to varying percentages, according to family status.2 At the end of their stay in Mauritania, they may transfer all their assets abroad. Travelers are not allowed to take out domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Afr ica are prohibited. Only holders of importer-exporter cards are permitted to engage in export transactions. Export transactions to all countries in excess of UM 5,000 must be domi- ciled with an authorized bank. Exporters must sign an undertaking to repatriate and surrender the fore ign exchange proceeds. Exports to all countries require authorization and endorsement by the Central Bank. Export proceeds must be surrendered not later than the due date of the payment, which must not normally be more than 60 days af ter shipment. Exports of gum arabic are the monopoly of SONIMEX, and exports of iron ore, copper concentrates, and gypsum are the monopoly of the Na t ional Indus tr ial and M in ing Com- pany (SN IM ). Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles must be sur- rendered. All amounts due f rom nonresidents in respect of services and all 'income earned abroad f rom fo re ign assets must be collected and surrendered w i th in four months of the due date of the payment. The importation of domestic banknotes by travelers is prohibited. Capital Transfers of capital between Mauritania and Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between Mauritania and all foreign countries are sub- ject to exchange control; capital transfers to all coun- tries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts normally are permitted freely, although the subsequent investment of the funds in Mauritania may require approval, as indicated below. All investments abroad by residents require prior authorization by the Central Bank. Foreign direct invest- ments in Mauritania3 and Mauritanian direct invest- ments abroad,4 must be declared to the Central Bank before they are made. The Central Bank has the right to request the postponement of the projects within a period of 15 days from receipt of the declaration. The full or partial liquidation of inward or outward invest- 3 Including those made by companies in Mau r i tan ia that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Maur i tan ia of foreign companies. 4 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Mauritania and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Mauritania. MAURITANIA ment also requ ires a declaration. Both the mak ing and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Maur i- tan ian investments abroad or foreign investments in Mauritania, must be reported to the Central Bank w i th in 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a com- pany or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of fo r- eign securities in Mau r i tan ia requires pr ior au tho r iza- tion by the Central Bank, as does borrow ing by res iden ts f rom nonresidents. The Inves tment Code (Ordinance No. 79046 of March 15, 1979) provides for various benefits for pri- vate investments in Mau r i tan ia and stipulates that prof i ts and dividends accruing f rom such investment can be transferred freely. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Mau r i tan ia. All imports and exports of gold require prior au thor iza t ion by the Central Bank. Exempt f rom this requirement are imports and exports by the Central Bank and of manu fac tu red articles con- taining a m inor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Changes during 1980 January-June. Dur ing the first half of 1980, applica- t ion of restrictions on the g ran t ing of foreign exchange allocations for t ravel by res iden ts and t ran s fe rs of salaries by foreigners was g radua l ly relaxed. January 31. Prior authorization procedure for essen- tial imports, which had been liberalized in October 1978, was re-established. February 24. A number of restrictions on imports were introduced: importation of passenger automobiles (with specified exceptions) was banned; value quotas were introduced for the importation of cloth, clothing, and fu rn i tu re; and importation of a number of specified items was suspended. March 4. The fixed rate for transactions in bankno tes between the ouguiya and the French franc, the CFA franc, and the Mali franc was abolished. December 10. An edict on the regime of externally financed projects was introduced, specifying, inter alia, that all materials related to such projects would be taxed, with the exception of those related to foreign grants to the Government. 279 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mauritius is the Mauritian Rupee, which is pegged to the SDR at Mau Rs 10.0 = SDR 1, or SDR 0.1 = Mau Re 1. The middle rates of the Mauritian rupee for the pound sterling, the intervention currency, and the U.S. dollar quoted by the Bank of Mauritius are determined on the basis of the daily calcu- lations of the pound sterling-SDR rate and the U.S. dol- lar-SDR rate, respectively. The Bank of Mauritius applies margins of 0.125 per cent fo the buying rate and 0.25 per cent to the selling rate in respect of exchange transactions in sterling and U.S. dollars, based on the fixed Mauritian rupee-SDR rate. On Decem- ber 31, 1980 the buying and selling rates of the Bank of Mauritius for sterling were Mau Rs 18.6233 and Mau Rs 18.6933, respectively, per <£ stg. 1, and for the U.S. dollar the rates were Mau Rs 7.82666 and Mau Rs 7.85333, respectively, per US$1. Commercial banks are authorized to deal in sterling and U.S. dollars at rates based on the rates quoted by the Bank of Mauritius for these currencies. On December 31, 1980 the commercial banks' buying and selling rates for sterling were Mau Rs 18.580 and Mau Rs 18.760, respec- tively, per <£ stg. 1, and for the U.S. dollar the rates were Mau Rs 7.7730 and Mau Rs 7.9070, respectively, per US$1 (Mau Rs 7.8030 and Mau Rs 7.9070, respec- tively, per US$1 for transactions in excess of US$12,000). Buying and selling rates for other foreign currencies1 are determined on the basis of appropriate cross rates in the London market. Forward exchange facilities are made available by the Bank of Mauritius for industries operating in the Export Processing Zone and for banks engaged in foreign borrowing for on-lend- ing to the sugar sector. The maximum period for for- ward cover is six months; the forward rates are based on a un iform margin of 3 per cent a year. A stamp duty of 36 per cent is applied to outward transfers of capital (other than banking funds) and purchases of gold coin and gold bullion. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Mauritius under powers delegated to it by the Financial Secretary. The authority for approving virtually all current payments is in turn delegated to the commercial banks. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry is responsible for the issue of import and export licenses, where required. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes Mauritius dis- tinguishes between countries in the former Sterling A rea2 and External Account countries. Payments to 1 The exchange control regulations of Mauritius define fore ign cur- rencies as all currencies other than the Mauritian rupee. 2 The exchange control regulations of Mauritius define the Sterling 280 residents of former Sterling Area countries may be made in rupees to a Sterling Area Account in Mauritius or in any currency of the former Sterling Area. Payments from residents of the former Sterling Area may be received in rupees from a Sterling Area Account in Mauritius or in any currency of the former Sterling Area. Payments to residents of countries outside the former Sterling Area may be made in rupees to a Sterling Area Account or an External Account in Mauritius, in sterling to an External Account in the United Kingdom, or in any non-Sterling Area currency. Payments from residents of countries outside the former Sterling Area may be received in rupees from an External Account in Mauritius, in sterling from an External Account in the United Kingdom, or in any non-Sterling Area currency. Nonresident Accounts There are two main types of nonresident accounts: Sterling Area Accounts and External Accounts. Sterling Area Accounts, which may be opened by per- sons and firms resident in countries of the former Sterling Area,2 may be credited with (1) authorized payments by residents of Mauritius; (2) any transfers f rom other Sterling Area Accounts; (3) any payments from External Accounts held in Mauritius or elsewhere in the former Sterling Area; and (4) the proceeds of the sale to an authorized dealer of any foreign currency or gold by nonresidents of Mauritius. They may be debited for (1) payments from residents of the former S ter l ing Area to residents of Mauritius; (2) transfers to other Sterling Area Accounts; (3) transfers to External Accounts in Mauritius or elsewhere in the former Sterling Area in respect of which the permission of the exchange control authorities in the appropriate country has been given; and (4) the cost of purchase of any former Sterling Area currency. External Accounts may be opened by persons and firms resident outside both Mauritius and the former Sterling Area. They may be credited with (1) authorized payments by residents of Mauritius; (2) payments from Sterling Area Accounts in respect of which the permis- sion of the exchange control authorities of the appro- priate country has been given; (3) any transfers from other External Accounts; and (4) the proceeds of the sale to an authorized dealer of any non-Sterling Area currency or gold by nonresidents of Mauritius and the former Sterling Area. They may be debited for (1) any payments to residents of Mauritius; (2) any transfers to Sterling Area Accounts; (3) any transfers to other External Accounts; and (4) the cost of purchase of any foreign currency or gold. Area as comprising the United Kingdom, the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man, and the Republic of Ireland. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution In addition to the above, there are also Blocked Accounts to which are credited funds owned by persons and firms resident outside Mauritius and realized from investments made by them prior to April 5, 1966, as well as funds representing emigrants' assets in excess of Mau Rs 100,000. Such accounts may be credited with payments by residents of Mauritius that have been spe- cifically authorized for credit to a Blocked Account and may be debited for certain specified transactions. Funds from Blocked Accounts may, with approval, be invested in Mauritius. Upon the realization of such investments, the proceeds are directed once more to a Blocked Account. Imports and Import Payments There is a list of commodities for which a specific license from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry is required, regardless of origin. All other goods may be freely imported under open general licenses granted to individual traders when imported from countries of the former Sterling Area, as defined before June 23, 1972, but most of these goods require a specific license when imported from non-Sterling Area countries. Gen- eral licenses are granted liberally. Specific licenses are issued on the basis of domestic requirements. In addi- tion to an import license, importers must apply for exchange control approval to make the corresponding import payments, subject to compliance with the pre- scription of currency regulations. Certain imports are subject to customs surcharges, and there is a stamp duty of 5 per cent based on the c.i.f. value of non- priority imports. Importers of goods of lower priority may not avail themselves of suppliers' credits, and local commercial banks are prohibited from extending credit for such imports. The contracting of suppliers' credit of more than 90 days' duration in respect of other cate- gories of imports requires the prior approval of the Bank of Mauritius, except for imports effected by com- panies holding a development certificate or by com- panies in the Export Processing Zone. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and also, up to specific limits, for certain other purposes such as travel, is provided by the commercial banks without prior reference to the exchange control authorities. The basic travel allowance is the equivalent of <£ stg. 400 a person for every two calendar years for travel to any country. There is a 10 per cent tax on all international air tickets purchased by Mauritian residents. The allowance for business travel is the equivalent of £ stg. 50 a day. Applications for exchange for business travel are examined by the Bank of Mauritius. There are established limits for payments and transfers to former Sterling Area countries and to non-Sterling Area countries in respect of family support, salary remittances by non-Mauritian nationals, trade commis- sions, subscriptions to clubs and societies, publishing MAURITIUS rights, advertising outside Mauritius, royalties, profes- sional and technical services, education, and leave sala- ries. Applications for amounts exceeding the standard allocations may be submitted to the exchange control authorities. Residents and nonresident travelers may take out Mau Rs 350 in domestic currency. Resident travelers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount of their travel allowance. Nonresident travelers may take out any foreign currency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of (1) articles made wholly or partially of gold, platinum, or silver; (2) diamonds, precious and semiprecious stones, pearls, and articles mounted with these; and (3) works of art are prohibited, unless per- mission is obtained from the Financial Secretary. All exports valued at more than Mau Rs 1,000 and all exports of food products valued at over Mau Rs 50 require a license from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The Mauritius Sugar Syndicate is the sole exporter of sugar. A tax ranging from 6 per cent to 13.5 per cent, plus a surcharge of 75 per cent thereon, is levied on sugar exports. All export proceeds in any currency other than Mauritian rupees must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. However, permission may be given to large export-import companies to retain export proceeds for a reasonable period of time to meet payments for imports. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any currency other than Mauritian rupees must be offered for sale to an author- ized dealer. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes and coin that may be imported, but not more than Mau Rs 700 in domestic currency notes and coin may be imported by travelers. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted. Out- ward transfers of capital are subject to certain restric- tions. Nonbank residents of Mauritius may, subject to permission, transfer a reasonable amount of capital to any country on payment of a 36 per cent stamp duty. Nonresidents require permission to transfer capital to any country; transfers are subject to the stamp duty of 36 per cent and, if directed toward a country outside the former Sterling Area by a resident of the former Sterling Area, require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities of the former Sterling Area country concerned. Foreign-owned companies may freely trans- fer abroad dividends, profits, and interest on capital. Permission for repatriation of capital is not granted for capital brought in before April 5, 1966, irrespective of the country of origin, but, in normal circumstances, it is given for capital brought in on or after that date. Pro- ceeds from the sale, liquidation, etc., of foreign capital that may not be repatriated must be credited to Blocked Accounts. 281 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS Emigrants may take out, at the official rate of exchange and free of stamp duty, the equivalent of Mau Rs 100,000 from their Mauritian assets when emi- grating to any country; this facility is available upon redesignation as a nonresident, which occurs upon departure. The balance of an emigrant's funds must be credited for an indefinite period to a Blocked Account; any releases that may be approved for transfer abroad are subject to payment of the 36 per cent stamp duty. Persons emigrating from Mauritius are not entitled to draw their personal travel allowance in addition to the emigration facilities. Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities are permitted to hold gold for numismatic purposes (includ- ing commemorative gold coins of Mau Rs 200 and Mau Rs 1,000) or as personal jewelry and ornaments. The import and export of monetary gold are prohibited, except when made by the monetary authorities. Imports of gold for industrial purposes are subject to a quota and specific import license. Exports of articles made wholly or partially of gold, other than jewelry consti- tuting the personal effects of a traveler, are prohibited. Payments in respect of private imports of gold coin and gold bullion are subject to the 36 per cent stamp duty. Imports of certain jewelry are subject to temporary customs surcharges. Changes during 1980 February 11. Exchange and trade restrictions apply- ing to Zimbabwe (formerly Rhodesia) were lifted. June 5. The stamp duty on imports was increased from 2 per cent to 5 per cent of the c.i.f. value. July 1. A 10 per cent surcharge was imposed across the board on all dues and duties, fees, rates, and other charges payable on imports, with the exception of the stamp duty. August 15. It was decided that the issuance of an import license would no longer automatically imply exchange control approval and a separate application for such approval would be needed. September 1. The allowance for business travel was raised to <£ stg. 50 a day. 282 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mexico is the Mexican Peso. The authorities of Mexico do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are deter- mined largely on the basis of demand and supply con- ditions in the exchange markets. However, the authorities intervene when necessary to maintain orderly conditions in the exchange market. On December 31, 1980 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar," the interven- tion currency, were Mex$23.15 and Mex$23.35, respec- tively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange, and foreign exchange may be freely purchased or sold, there being no exchange restrictions of any kind. An exchange cover scheme is available for selected transactions; it is operated by the Bank of Mexico (the central bank) along the lines of swap arrangements. On November 12, 1946, Mexico notified the Fund that it was prepared formally to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency There are no obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from nonresidents. In accordance with the payments agreement with Yugo- slavia, payments for direct commercial transactions and related expenses with that country handled through the Mexican banking system may, with the prior authoriza- tion of the Bank of Mexico, be made through a special account denominated in U.S. dollars. Settlements with Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Bank of Mexico and the central bank of the country concerned, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Asso- ciation (LA IA ). Similar arrangements exist for pay- ments between Mexico and the Dominican Republic, between Mexico and Cuba, and between Mexico and Iran. Payments to or from Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in U.S. dollars in accordance with a reciprocal credit and payment agree- ment between the central banks of those countries. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses from the Ministry of Commerce are required for about one four th of the items in Mexico's General Import Tar iff, amounting to about 48 per cent of annual import value; the issuance of these licenses may be subject to quantitative restrictions. For some commodities "open end" import licenses may be granted allowing imports to be effected during a period of six months to one year, subject to an overall limit; depending on the importer's performance, the license may be renewed repeatedly. Applications for import licenses are screened by the Ministry of Commerce with the aid of advisory councils comprising importers, producers, and consumers. For a small number of luxury items, no licenses are granted. Most import licenses are subject to the payment of a fee of between 1 per cent and 17 per cent of the value of the import transaction; the proceeds are allocated to a fund handled by the Mexican Foreign Trade Institute (IMCE) for the promotion of exports. Imports by official Mexican agencies are subject to prior approval by the Ministry of Commerce; this approval is not given if a comparable domestic equivalent is available at a price differential of 15-20 per cent. Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely. All imports must be accompanied by an exporter's declaration of ship- ment. Virtually all imports, except imports included in the tar iff negotiation rounds from LAIA countries and temporary imports, are subject to an import surcharge of 2 per cent ad valorem, the proceeds of which accrue to an export trust fund established with the Bank of Mexico. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. The con- tracting of insurance for persons in Mexico, or on property of Mexican ownership, or where the risks are for the account of persons in Mexico or may occur in Mexico is permitted only with Mexican companies or with branches of foreign companies established in Mexico in accordance with Mexican law. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports require licenses. No exchange control requirements apply to export proceeds. Rebates of indirect taxes by means of a system of certificates (certificados de devolution de impuestos or CEDIS) are granted on exports of certain manufactured and semi- manufac tured products and of certain services. Proceeds from Invisibles ' No exchange control requirements apply to proceeds from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. New foreign investment in the capital of Mexican bank- ing or insurance companies and investment funds is prohibited. Certain sectors, such as petroleum, basic petrochemical production, radioactive minerals, elec- tricity and nuclear energy, certain mining activities, rail- roads, telecommunications, and other activities specified by Mexican laws, are reserved to government investment. Investment in a number of activities is reserved exclu- 283 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO sively for Mexican individuals or corporations (radio and television, the public transportation system, forestry, etc., as well as any other areas specified by the Federal Government), while new investments in other sectors must have a majority participation of Mexican capital. Foreign investments in Mexico must be registered with the National Foreign Investment Register in the Ministry of National Properties and Industrial Development (SEPAF IN ). Applications by foreign natural or juri- dical persons to acquire more than 25 per cent of the capital of a Mexican company require the prior authori- zation of SEPAFIN, after the National Foreign Invest- ment Commission has granted the necessary registration. All acquisitions of stock in Mexican companies by foreigners must be registered within 30 days. Borrow- ing abroad (or within Mexico in foreign currency) by the public sector and by state-owned banks is subject to approval by the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit. Borrowing abroad by private banks is subject to certain requirements imposed by the Bank of Mexico; these banks are permitted to accept deposits denominated in foreign currency from residents as well as nonresidents, but may not receive liabilities over US$400,000 from a single nonresident. Only investment banks and multi- national banks operating through their investment departments are allowed to accept time deposits in U.S. dollars. The interest rate on such deposits is fixed in relation to the corresponding Eurodollar rate in London. Financial operations in Mexico by foreign commercial banks must be made in accordance with guidelines set by the Bank of Mexico and the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit; peso loans by foreign commercial banks to the private sector in Mexico are prohibited. Gold Domestic transactions in nonmonetary gold are limited to purchases of gold bars by goldsmiths or manufacturers effected through authorized Mexican credit institutions. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell monetary gold in Mexico. There is a 15 per cent tax on sales of newly mined gold. Producers of gold who undertake not to sell it at prices exceeding international quotations plus normal marketing costs are eligible for an automatic subsidy of up to 100 per cent of the tax, when selling newly mined gold in Mexico to private banks or to goldsmiths or manufacturers in Mexico. Exports of gold are prohibited unless effected by the Bank of Mexico. Importation of gold requires an import license from the Bank of Mexico. Changes during 1980 January 26. The Ministry of Finance and Public Credit imposed a 40 per cent tax on excess profits from the sale of gold and silver. Subsequently, on March 7 the tax on sales of silver was reduced to 20 per cent. June 13. Tariffs were modified for 81 tariff items in the areas of chemical products, leather goods, machinery and electrical appliances. (Similar modifications were made on December 29 in respect of 448 tariff items covering agriculture, chemical products, textiles, machinery, and automobile parts, and on December 31 for 265 items covering agriculture, minerals, chemical products, paper, and machinery parts.) August 13. Mexico and Venezuela signed an energy cooperation agreement, under which the two countries undertook to help the Central American and Caribbean countries to meet their crude oil consumption needs up to 160,000 barrels a day, to be provided in equal pro- portion by the two countries on terms of a five-year credit at 4 per cent interest rate per annum for 30 per cent of oil supplied. October 1. The limit under the monetary coopera- tion agreement between the Bank of Mexico and the central banks of Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua was doubled to US$20 million. October 1. The limit under the reciprocal credit agreement between the Bank of Mexico and the central bank of Spain was raised from US$100 million to US$150 million. December 31. Import licensing requirements were eliminated for 203 tariff items, consisting mainly of intermediate goods used by the chemical, medical, tex- tiles, and machinery sectors. 284 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Morocco is the Moroccan Dirham. The Bank of Morocco fixes buying and selling rates for the French franc daily on the basis of variations in the value of the currencies of Morocco's principal trading partners, weighted in accordance with the geographic distribution of Morocco's foreign trade. Buying and selling rates for most other currencies quoted in Morocco1 are established on the basis of the daily dirham-French franc rate and the cross rates for those currencies in relation to the French f ranc in the Paris exchange market. On December 31, 1980 the exchange rate for the French franc was DH 0.95523 buying and DH 0.95809 selling, per F 1. On the same date, the exchange rate for the U.S. dollar was fixed at DH 4.3224 buying and DH 4.3459 selling, per US$1. A special premium, called the "fidelity premium," is paid on remittances2 effected by Moroccans working in France; it is calculated to assure beneficiaries a conver- sion rate of DH = F 1. All sales and purchases of foreign currency are cen- tralized in the Bank of Morocco, but the authorized banks are permitted to offset purchases and sales on behalf of private customers in each currency separately. Each day authorized banks must purchase f rom or sell to the Bank of Morocco the balances of their purchases and sales in each currency; transactions are effected at rates fixed by the Bank. Compensation between banks is not permitted so that no foreign exchange market exists in Morocco. The Bank of Morocco also estab- lishes buy ing and selling rates for transactions with travelers in banknotes, travelers checks, and letters of credit expressed in "convertible currencies" (the cur- rencies listed in footnote 1, including the French f ranc) and specified other currencies;3 the authorized banks sell to the Bank of Morocco their excess holdings of banknotes and replenish them at the Bank when neces- sary. A forward foreign exchange cover facility was established by the authorities effective June 1, 1979; the facility is available for exports as well as imports of nonconsumption items. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office, an agency under the Ministry of Finance. This 1 Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwa i ti dinars, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U.A.E. dirhams, and U.S. dollars. 2 Previously, a separate bonus of 5 per cent was paid on the dirham equivalent of foreign currencies t rans fe r red to bank or postal accounts by Moroccans working abroad, but this premium was eliminated at the end of 1980. 3 CFA francs, Finnish ma rkkaa, Iranian rials, Lebanese pounds, and Libyan dinars. Libyan dinars are traded only by the agencies of the Bank of Morocco, and on specified terms. Office has delegated the execution of certain exchange control measures to authorized banks. Import certifi- cates and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce; they must be countersigned by the Exchange Office. Import commitments for liberalized goods are signed by the importer himself; they do not require the visa of the Exchange Office unless the country of origin of the goods is not the country of shipment, or the goods are bought on a c.i.f. basis. A part of the port of Tangier is designated as a free trade zone and is exempt from taxation and from trade, customs, and exchange controls. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are classified as follows: (1) the payments agreement group, comprising countries with which Morocco maintains bilateral paymen ts agreements;4 and (2) all other coun- tries, the "area of convertibility." Certain noncommercial settlements with Algeria are made in dirhams or Algerian dinars through special accounts at the two central banks; all settlements with Tunisia are made through accounts denominated in con- vertible dirhams or Tunisian convertible dinars, and all settlements w i th Maur i tan ia are made through accounts denominated in convertible dirhams or convertible Mau- ritanian ouguiyas. Settlements with the payments agree- ment group are made through the payments agreement accounts. Imports originating in countries in the area of convertibility may be paid for only in "convertible currencies" negotiated by the Bank of Morocco.5 Other settlements with countries in the area of convertibility may be made only in "convertible currencies" negotiated by the Bank of Morocco or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams. Nonresident Accounts The various types of nonresident accounts are as follows: 1. Foreign Currency Accounts are held by physical or juridical fo re ign nationals, either resident or nonresi- dent. These may be freely credited with book transfers f rom abroad, with checks, travelers checks, or any other means of payment denominated in foreign currency, except foreign banknotes, and with foreign currency drawn f rom the Bank of Morocco following general or special authorization by the Exchange Office. They may be freely debited for book transfers abroad to the account holder or to a third party foreign national, for the surrender of foreign currency to the Bank of 4 Gu inea, Mali, and U.S.S.R. The agreements w i th Gu inea and Mali are inoperative. 5 Special regu la t ions apply to paymen ts for imports of Egyptian origin; 40 per cent of such payments must be effec ted th rough the account established under the term ina ted b i la teral paymen ts agreement and 60 per cent in "convertible currencies." 285 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO Morocco, or for the payment of checks denominated in foreign currency. 2. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams are reserved for residents of countries in the area of con- vertibility. These accounts may be credited freely with authorized payments due to residents of countries in the area of convertibility and with dirhams obtained f rom the sale to the Bank of Morocco of "convertible cur- rencies," excluding banknotes. They may be debited free ly for payments in Morocco and for purchases f rom the Bank of Morocco of "convertible currencies." Trans- fers between Foreign Accounts in Convertible D irhams may be made freely. 3. Payments Agreement Accounts are held by the Bank of Morocco for central banks (or similar institu- tions) of the countries with which Morocco ma in ta ins bilateral payments agreements (see footnote 4 ); they are used only for settlements with these countries, inc lud ing settlements for imports and exports. 4. Capital Accounts, which may be held by any nonresident, are credited with f u n ds that may not be t rans fe r red abroad. These include the proceeds f rom the sale on the Casablanca Stock Exchange of Moroccan securities and proceeds from the contractual or acceler- ated redemption of such securities. Transfers between Capital Accounts related to countries in the area of convertibility or the same coun try in the payments agree- ment group are perm i t ted free ly. Capital Accounts may be debited freely for purchases of specified government bonds and for personal expenses of the account holder and his immediate relatives du r ing visits to Morocco, subject to a limit of DH 10,000 a year for each account. All other operations through Capital Accounts require individual approval. 5. Suspense Accounts are used for holding nonresi- dent f u n ds not available for credit to any of the accounts mentioned above. Balances on these accounts may be used freely to pay taxes due in Morocco, and, up to DH 10,000 a person a year, to pay the costs of the stay in Morocco of the account holder, his spouse, or other immediate relatives, but all other debits to these accounts require approval. 6. Three Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams are held by the Bank of Morocco for the Central Bank of Algeria, the Central Bank of Mau r i tan ia, and the Central Bank of Tunisia. Only certain noncommercial transactions between Morocco and Algeria are settled through the account opened in the name of the Central Bank of Algeria. Imports and Import Payments Imports are admitted in accordance with an annual General Import Program, divided into three categories and applicable to all countries. Goods in List A may be imported freely. Goods in List B are restricted, in some cases by a global quota, or are subject to state trad ing; for a large number of List B items, no quotas 286 are established, and imports are approved according to need, licenses usually being issued upon application (SB i tems ). In principle, the importation of goods in List C is not permitted; among the items on this list are certain motor vehicles, certain precious metals, and gold jewelry. To import goods in List A, the importer signs an import commitment (engagement d"importa- tion), which does not require adm in is tra t ive approval unless the goods are imported f r om a country other than that of origin or are purchased on a c.i.f. basis,0 but for goods in List B, an import certificate (autorisation a" importation or certificat d'importation) must be obtained. Whea t, sugar, tea, and fer t i l izers are imported by official agencies. For all impo r ts the import t i t le — import certificate or import comm i tm en t —mu st be domiciled (reg is tered) w i th an au thor ized bank, which may make payments upon submission of the required documen ts. Import certificates require the visa of the Exchange Office before the fo re ign exchange is made ava i lab le. Import comm i tmen ts requ i re this visa on ly when the coun t ry of origin and the coun t ry of sh ipment of the goods concerned d i f f er or when imports are contracted for on a c.i.f. basis. Special procedures are applicable to speci- fied imports financed by fore ign aid or loans. A non in te res t -bea r ing advance import deposit equiva- lent to 25 per cent of the total fore ign exchange cost of the import is payab le at the time the import transac t ion is domiciled w i th an au thor ized bank. The deposit is re funded to the impo r ter a f ter s ix mon ths. A large n um- ber of impo rt i tems is exempt f rom the deposit require- men t —no tab ly essential foods tu f fs, p r im a ry, semifin- ished, and cap i tal goods impor ted by cooperatives and by small and medium-sized enterprises with an annual tu rnover of less than DH 7.5 m i l l ion, impor ts made by public offices and local commun i t ies, and impo r ts und er the customs savings procedures.7 Most impor ts f rom coun tr ies in the paymen ts agree- ment g roup are made in accordance w i th quotas estab- lished in the respective t r ade agreements. Impo r ts can also be licensed und er compensa t ion t ransac t ions. Payments for Invisibles Payments for most cu r rent invisibles require the approval of the Exchange Office, but in several ins tances the approval au tho r i ty has been delegated to the banks. The au tho r ized banks are perm i t ted to make paymen ts and settle expenses inc iden tal to the commercial trans- action covered by the re levant import or export docu- ments. Ea rn ings a f ter tax on approved nonres ident investments in Morocco are t rans fe rab le to the investor's country of residence. The t ran s fer of d iv idends on nonres iden t-owned shares of Moroccan compan ies hav- ing their ma in office in Morocco requires the approval 0 C.i.f. impor ts of List A goods requ i re pr ior exchange control approval. 7 Inc lud ing tempo ra ry admissions, d rawback, and wa rehou s ing. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of the Exchange Office. Undistributed profits relating to the financial year 1968 or later remain transferable indefinitely. Some payments are subject to limitations. A foreign employee may transfer to his country of origin, subject to the in i t ial approval of the Exchange Office, 50 per cent of his monthly wages or salary if his fam i ly does not reside in Morocco, or 30 per cent if he is single or his family lives in Morocco; except for the medical and paramedical professions, such transfers are subject to a limit of DH 1,000 a month. Subject to a mon th ly l im it of DH 500, the same percentages of earn ings may also be transferred by foreign nationals engaged in agr icu l- tural, indus tr ia l, or commercial activities, or in skilled crafts. Foreign nationals employed in the hotel sector or the m in ing sector are authorized to t ran s fer between 60 per cent and 80 per cent of their mon th ly salaries or wages. An allocation of fore ign exchange equ iva lent to DH 100 a person a year is granted to residents of any nationality for travel abroad, provided that they do not make periodic transfers abroad. There is a special allo- cation for pilgrimages. Residents of foreign na t iona l i ty may acquire exchange for tourist travel up to the equiv- alent of DH 2,500 a year for each passport by selling to an authorized bank a corresponding amount in fo re ign exchange (other than bankno tes) f rom the ir own fo r- eign assets not subject to surrender requ i remen ts. For business travel a standard allowance of DH 500 a day is granted for executives and DH 350 a day for other staff members and employees, up to DH 5,000 a person a trip and w i th in an annual ceiling fixed ind iv id- ually by the Exchange Office; exporters and profess ional members of the tou r ist indu s t ry may ob ta in up to DH 7,500 a person a trip, within a ceiling of 3 per cent of the fore ign exchange repatriated du r ing the preceding calendar year. The allocation issued for business travel may be added to the allocation issued for tourist travel. Moroccan students pursu ing higher studies abroad may obtain mon th ly allocations of foreign exchange up to DH 1,300 for students in higher educa t ion who do not hold scholarships, and of DH 1,500 for doctoral s tuden ts who do not hold scholarships. There is also a qu a r t e r ly allocation of DH 1,000 as a supplement for scholarship students. Students are granted an annual installation allowance, fixed at DH 2,000. For f am i ly ma in tenance, the Exchange Office grants a monthly allocation of DH 300. The export of Moroccan bankno tes is pro- hibited. Workers leaving Morocco to work abroad for the first time may be granted DH 2,000 in fore ign b ank- notes upon presentation of an employment con trac t. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports may be made freely, although export licenses are required for a few items. All f ru i t s, fresh vegetables, canned goods, raw cotton, and cotton by-products may be exported only by a state t rad ing agency, the Office of Marke t ing and Export (Office de MOROCCO Commercialisation et d'Expor ta t ion —OCE), which is also in charge of wine exports. All exporters must sign an unde r tak ing to repatriate and surrender fore ign exchange proceeds. The sur- render to the exporter's bank must take place w i th in one month f rom the date the payment is due. The date on which the payment is due is the m a t u r i ty date fixed in the commercial contract; in principle, th is date must not be set more than 90 days a f ter the date of arrival of the merchandise at the place of destination. When the exporter's bank receives the advice of credit in fore ign currency f r om abroad, it must surrender the fore ign exchange immed ia te ly to the Bank of Morocco. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents of Moroccan na t iona l i ty and Moroccan companies must repatriate exchange receipts accruing from all the ir noncommerc ial c la ims and su r render them to an authorized bank. Other residents must surrender noncommerc ial receipts on ly if the receipts result f rom current transac t ions. Moroccans wo rk ing abroad must surrender such currenc ies w i th in one mon th of re-entry, but are pe rm i t ted, when leav ing again, to repurchase 15 per cent of the amount su r rende red. A special pre- m ium, called the "f ide l i ty p rem ium ," is pa id by the banks on remittances by Moroccans work ing in France; it is computed to assure beneficiaries a conversion rate of F 1 = DH 1. The impo r ta t ion of Moroccan bank- notes is proh ib i ted. Nonresident travelers may freely bring in fore ign banknotes; fore ign currency imported in excess of the equivalent of DH 5,000 must, however, be declared to the customs authorities. Resident trav- elers also may br ing in any amount in fore ign banknotes, but these must be surrendered w i th in 30 days of re-entry. Capital Residents of Moroccan na t iona l i ty, as well as com- panies established in Morocco, are obliged to declare to the Exchange Office all fore ign-he ld assets exceeding DH 250, and to repa tr ia te- and su r render cer ta in of these assets. The disposal of other foreign-held assets requires pe rm iss ion. The t rans fer of capital abroad by residents mu st be approved. Rem i t tance of the assets of em igran ts and t r an s f e rs in the fo rm of g i f ts are not no rma l ly approved, nor is investment by p r iva te individ- uals in fo re ign securities or real estate. Exchange alloca- tions for the t r a n s f er of inher i tances are limited to DH 35,000 a benef ic iary. Transfers of assets by persons re tu rn ing to the ir own coun t ry vary w i th the length of their stay in Morocco, f rom DH 35,000 a fam i ly with fam i ly residence of 3 to 5 years to DH 250,000 a fam i ly where the period of residence has been 15 years or more. New fo re ign inves tmen ts in specified sectors of the economy may benefit f rom the provisions of the Invest- ment Code of August 15, 1973. The Code provides various tax concessions and other incentives. It guar- antees the t ran s fer of d iv idends d is tr ibu ted to nonresi- 287 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO dents and of proceeds from the liquidation of the capital brought in by the foreign investor. Investments financed with funds held in Capital Accounts (see below) also are eligible for the benefits of the Code; proceeds from the liquidation of investments financed in this manner become transferable after a m in imum investment period of 5 years. Foreign investments approved under the previous Investment Code (of February 10, 1961) continue to benefit f rom the retransfer guarantee for the liquidation proceeds. Proceeds f rom the liquidation of other invest- ments are credited to Capital Accounts. Operations through Capital Accounts that may be effected with approval include purchases on the Casa- blanca Stock Exchange of Moroccan and non-Moroccan securities; purchases of Moroccan securities not quoted on the Casablanca Stock Exchange or participation in a Moroccan firm; subscriptions to either; investments of any kind, including purchases of businesses or office buildings; lending to residents; payment of local expenses in excess of DH 5,000 dur ing the account holder's stay in Morocco; any such payments to beneficiaries other than the holder of the account or a close relative; any such payments from an account held by a foreign juridical person; gifts to social, cultural, or religious institutions; subscriptions to capital increases of Moroc- can companies whose shares are quoted on the Casa- blanca Stock Exchange; subscriptions at the time of issue to long-term or short-term fixed yield securities issued by a Moroccan public entity; custody charges and commissions on securities; and payment of the cost of maintenance, repairs, real estate taxes, and insurance on real estate located in Morocco. Subject to approval, Capital Accounts may also be debited for investments in Morocco, w i th in the framework of the 1973 Investment Code, provided that the amounts debited do not exceed 50 per cent of the investment undertaken by the non- resident and 25 per cent of the company's total capital. Certain government bonds acquired with funds from Capital Accounts are freely negotiable between nonresi- dents. These are 5.5 per cent, seven-year bonds on which interest and redemption proceeds are transferable. All other transactions in securities involving nonresident interests, as well as the import and export of securities, require approval. Banks are permitted to engage in short-term borrowing abroad; they may accept converti- ble currency funds from nonresidents for credit to Special Deposit Accounts, provided that these funds are reinvested abroad in the same currency and for the same ma tur i ty period. The rate of interest paid by banks on these deposits may not exceed the rate received by them on their corresponding placements. Gold A commemorative gold coin with a face value of DH 250 has been issued and is legal tender. Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Morocco for numismatic or investment purposes. Ten d ifferent types of foreign gold coins are traded on the Casablanca Stock Exchange, which does not, however, deal in gold bars. Imports of gold are subject to authorization by the Directorate of Customs and Indirect Taxes. Each year the Ministry of Finance fixes a quota for the importa- tion of gold ingots, which is then allocated among jewelers and industrial users of precious metals. Gold jewelry is included in import List C. Exports of gold are prohibited. Changes during 1980 January 9. Certain imports by returning Moroccan workers abroad were exempted from the requirement of registration with authorized banks (Exchange Office Circular No. 1369). February 28. Imports of certain leather articles were transferred from the prohibited List C to the restricted List B (Exchange Office Circular No. 1372). May 15. Exchange and trade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe (former ly Rhodesia) were lifted. May 28. Exchange Office Circular No. 1374 came into effect, specifying the conditions under which trans- actions between residents and nonresidents may be guar- anteed by collateral. July 11. Imports of asbestos were transferred from the restricted List B to the unrestricted List A (Exchange Office Circular No. 1377). August 11. The distinction between the "area of con- vertibility" and the "French Franc Area" was eliminated for exchange control purposes (Exchange Office Cir- cular No. 1378). October 1. Payments for imports from Egypt began to be made in convertible currencies (Exchange Office Circular No. 1380). October 15. Certain glass tubes for pharmaceutical uses were exempted f rom the advance import deposit (Exchange Office Circular No. 1381). December 31. The 5 per cent bonus on the dirham equivalent of foreign currencies transferred to bank or postal accounts by Moroccans working abroad was ter- minated (Dahir No. 1-80-470—Loi des finances, 1981). 288 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL (Position on December 31, 2980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Nepal is the Nepalese Rupee, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at the rate of NRs 12.00 = US$1. On December 31, 1980 the official buying and selling rates were NRs 11.90 and NRs 12.10, respectively, per US$1. Nepal also quotes fixed rates for the Indian rupee, at NRs 145.00 buying and NRs 145.15 selling, per 100 Indian rupees. Buying and selling rates are quoted daily for other currencies,1 with quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. Buying rates only are quoted for Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Italian lire, and Swedish kroner, based on buying rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. There are separate buying rates for banknotes, at NRs 11.60 per US$1; an additional discount of 1 per cent is applied to other convertible banknotes. A second official exchange rate is applied only to merchandise transactions, with certain specified exceptions, with countries other than India. This rate is fixed at NRs 13.90 buying and NRs 14.10 selling, per US$1. Residents may freely purchase Indian rupees from Nepalese banks and they may hold any amount of Indian notes and coin, but the Indian rupee is not legal tender. Administration of Control Permission is required from the Ministry of Finance for all payments in convertible currency except for import payments and certain specified payments. Import and export licensing is the responsibility of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. A supervisory committee composed of representatives from the Nepal Rastra Bank (the central bank ), the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, the Ministry of Agriculture, and the National Planning Commission oversees the operation of the dual exchange rate system. All exchange transactions with countries other than India must be settled through authorized dealers, i.e., the Nepal Bank Ltd. and the Rastriya Banijya Bank. Within Nepal there are 124 additional authorized dealers licensed to purchase foreign currencies; any sale of such currencies other than Indian rupees is sub- ject to the prior approval of the Nepal Rastra Bank. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements apply to outgoing payments to countries with which no pay- ments agreement is in force2 and these may be made 1 Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, Singapore dollars, and Asian Monetary Units (AMU s ). 2 Nepal has bilateral payments agreements with Bu lgar ia, People's Republic of China, Poland, and U.S.S.R.; payments between Nepal and these countries must be made through special accounts. An agreement with Pakistan is inoperative. in foreign currency supplied by the Nepal Rastra Bank. Payments to, and receipts from, other member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) except India (Bangladesh, Burma, Iran, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka) in respect of current transactions (other than those relating to petroleum, natural gas, and their prod- uc ts) should be effected through the ACU unless exporters in the partner country require the transaction to bs settled through normal banking channels. Pay- ments for imports from India normally are settled in Ind ian rupees, but the Nepal Rastra Bank sometimes makes convertible currencies available for such imports on the recommendation of the Ministry of Finance. The proceeds of exports to India are obtained in Indian rupees, while proceeds from other countries must be received in any of the quoted convertible currencies.1 Nonresident Accounts The Nepal Rastra Bank permits nonresidents to open "convertible rupee accounts" with Nepalese banks; bal- ances on these accounts may be freely transferred abroad. Accounts in Indian currency may be opened only under special arrangements. Foreign currencies brought into or received in Nepal by nonresidents, which are converted into Nepalese rupees and deposited with a Nepalese bank, may be reconverted for transfer out of the country, subject to prior permission of the Nepal Rastra Bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports from India and imports of certain commodi- ties (cement, corrugated sheeting, hardware, industrial machinery and spare parts, fertilizer, and limited amounts of personal effects) from countries other than India do not require import licenses. All other imports of goods require import licenses. Imports of vegetable oil, margarine, animal fat, woolen carpets, arms and ammunition, explosives, chemicals to be used for explo- sives, and wireless transmitters require special permis- sion of the Government. Imports of beef are banned. Under the Trade and Transit Treaties, Nepal and India have agreed to freedom of trade between themselves in Nepalese and Indian goods; Indian goods may, in prin- ciple, be imported freely (although some are subject to a permit system in order to prevent their re-exportation and certain others are subject to export ceilings in Ind ia); reimbursement of tax is made by the Government of India to the Government of Nepal on direct imports from Indian manufacturers of commodities subject to excise duty in India. Imports of certain commodities f rom countries other than India (e.g., stainless steel, wrist watches, synthetic yarn, radios, pocket calculators, video sets, and photographic equipment) are subject to quantitative restrictions. Foreign tourists may bring in, without permission, 289 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL goods not exceeding NRs 10,000 in value, which are not otherwise restricted. Nepalese citizens returning after visits of less than three months abroad to coun- tries other than India are allowed to import without permission personal effects valued up to NRs 5,000 once every three months. Nepalese citizens returning after an absence of between three months and one year may import personal effects valued up to NRs 10,000 with- out permission; the limit for citizens returning after more than one year abroad is NRs 15,000. Under the dual exchange rate system for merchan- dise transactions, a fixed depreciated selling rate of NRs 14.10 per US$1 is applied to all imports from countries other than India, except for exempted items (petroleum products, chemical fertilizers, and cement). Exchange to pay for the exempted import items is pur- chased at the official selling rate of NRs 12.10 per US$1.3 All import settlements through the banking system must be on a letter of credit basis; only imports from India may be settled outside the banking system. Certain imports from all sources are subject to import surcharges. Payments for Invisibles Payments to India may be made freely in Indian rupees, but for amounts of Rs 500 or over the purpose of the payment must be indicated. All payments for freight and insurance are made at the official exchange rate. For travel to countries other than India for medical treatment, foreign exchange is allowed as recom- mended by a panel of doctors; students studying at their own expense in these countries are allowed up to US$2,160 a year for board and lodging, while payments for tuition fees are allowed as required. Foreign exchange is restricted for tourist travel abroad. Pay- ments for other invisibles depend on the essentiality of the transaction and the availability of foreign exchange. Nepalese and Indian currencies may be taken out freely to India but only by Nepalese and Indian nationals; the export of these currencies to countries other than India is prohibited. Foreign banknotes, other than Indian banknotes, may not be taken out by residents without permission. Nonresidents may take out the unchanged amount of any foreign banknotes they brought in; however, nonresidents, other than Indian nationals, may not take out Nepalese or Indian banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of old coin, gold and silver, coin and jewelry made of these metals, and wild animals (buffalo, mon- key, panda, musk deer, and rhinoceros) are prohibited. The re-export to India of non-Nepalese goods is not per- mitted, and re-export to any destination of goods imported from India is prohibited. With specified 3 Debt service payments on foreign credits associated with imports are transacted at the rate applicable to the merchandise. 290 exceptions, goods of Nepalese origin may be exported freely to India. All exports to other destinations, except handicrafts, woolen goods other than carpets, and jute bags, require export licenses. The exchange proceeds from exports, except Indian rupees, must be surrendered to the Nepal Rastra Bank or to an authorized bank within six months of the date when the goods crossed the customs frontier. As part of the dual exchange rate system, exports to countries other than India are transacted at the depreciated official buying rate of NRs 13.90 per US$1. An export valuation committee determines for each exportable commodity other than handicraft goods, the maximum unit value that can appear on an application for the depreciated exchange rate. Unit values are defined on an f.o.b. Nepal basis. Foreign exchange surrendered in excess of earnings calculated on this basis is not eligible for the depreciated exchange rate. Nepalese citizens going abroad may take out unre- stricted goods valued at up to NRs 10,000 without authorization; otherwise an export license is required. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of Indian rupees, foreign exchange proceeds derived from transactions in invisibles must be surrendered to the Nepal Rastra Bank or an author- ized bank at the official rate of exchange. Nepalese and Indian currency may be brought in from India only, and by Nepalese and Indian nationals only; the import of these currencies from countries other than India is prohibited. When extending their visas, tourists are required to produce evidence that they have converted a minimum of US$5 at the official rate of exchange for each day's stay. Nonresidents other than Indian nationals are not allowed to bring in Nepalese or Indian banknotes. Other foreign banknotes may be brought in freely by residents and nonresidents, but residents and Indian nationals must declare any foreign banknotes they bring in. Capital No conditions are specified concerning receipts and remittances in respect of capital transactions, but official exchange is not normally provided for capital remit- tances by Nepalese nationals. Nepalese citizens, whether resident in Nepal or not, are prohibited from making any type of investment in foreign countries, except invest- ment specifically exempted by government notice; the exemptions include the purchase and sale of insurance policies abroad, investments abroad by any banking or financial institution incorporated in Nepal, and the purchase of shares of foreign companies under a rights issue. The Industrial Enterprise Act of 1974 provides incen- tives for foreign investment in Nepal. Foreign investors who obtain an investment guarantee may remit yearly profits of up to 25 per cent on the foreign capital invested and, in any one year, up to 10 per cent of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution principal; if the exchange situation permits, profits in excess of 25 per cent are remittable. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Nepal. Imports of gold from any country other than India require a license and are subject to an import duty of NRs 6.65 a troy ounce; such imports are not normally allowed. Exports of gold may be made only by the monetary authorities and require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. Domestic dealings in gold do not require a license but are subject to a sales tax of 12 per cent. Changes during 1980 February 7. A trade agreement was concluded to import matches worth NRs 4.6 million from India dur- ing 1979-80. (Imports of matches had been restricted since April 1978.) February 21. The authorities implemented a number of exchange rate and trade-related measures: (1) The second official exchange rate was appreciated from NRs 16 = US$1 to NRs 14 = US$1. The import items exempted from the second rate were reduced to petroleum products, chemical fertilizers, and cement. (2) The 6 per cent export duty and the 6 per cent sur- charge levied on exports of raw ju te were withdrawn. (3) Duty rates were raised from 85 per cent to 100 per cent on a number of imports from third countries, including nylon, terylene, dacron, polyester, and mixed- suiting clothes; from 60 per cent to 80 per cent on imports of cosmetic goods and motor vehicles with engines of up to 1,000 cubic centimeters; from 125— 240 per cent to 155-290 per cent on imports of motor vehicles with engines above 1,000 cubic centimeters; from 90 per cent to 115 per cent on imports of tran- sistor radios; and from 20 per cent to 30 per cent on imports of parts for radios. April 9. Export of mustard seeds and oil was made subject to prior authorization. June 9. The monopoly of the Nepal Food Corpora- tion over exports of the mushoor variety of pulses was NEPAL terminated, and private traders were authorized to export this commodity, subject to conditions laid down by the Corporation. July 3. The Nepal Rastra Bank started to quote buying and selling rates for the Singapore dollar. July 4. Nepal and Bulgaria signed a five-year trade and payments agreement replacing the previous 1969 agreement. Under the new agreement, trade payments are to be settled in a freely convertible currency. July 7. Import duty rates were adjusted mostly upward on a number of items under the 1980/81 budget. July 9. Export duties on bran oil and sal seed oil were withdrawn. August 8. The Nepal Rastra Bank changed its buying rate for U.S. dollar banknotes from NRs 11.90 = US$1 to NRs 11.60 = US$1 and introduced an additional dis- count of 1 per cent on purchases of other convertible banknotes. August 11. The restriction on imports of sugar was lifted. September 17. The Government introduced a mini- mum domestic procurement price of NRs 1,875 a ton for raw jute to be exported abroad and an export sub- sidy of NRs 347 a ton. October 1. The amended (procedure) rule of the ACU started to be applied for trade and payments among the member countries. October 21. The ban on exports of rice, which had been introduced in February 1980, was lifted; however, rice exports remained subject to approval by local authorities. December 15. The Government waived the levy imposed on rice exports to India, reduced the levy rate from 20 per cent to 10 per cent on rice exports to third countries, and raised the procurement price under the levy scheme from NRs 1,393.2 a ton to NRs 2,000 a ton. December 16. The Nepal Rastra Bank started to quote exchange rates for the currencies of members of the ACU other than India (viz., Bangladesh, Burma, Iran, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka) on the basis of the AMU rate supplied by the ACU headquarters in Teheran. 291 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Netherlands is the Netherlands Guilder. The Netherlands participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Italy, and Luxembourg in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Monetary Sys- tem (EMS). In accordance with this agreement, the Netherlands maintains the spot exchange rates between the Netherlands guilder and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 2.25 per cent (in the case of the Italian lira, 6 per cent) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Netherlands Bank (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the curren- cies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1980 these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: Netherlands Guilders Upper limit Lower limit 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 deutsche mark 100 French francs 1 Irish pound 10,000 Italian lire 7.0520 36.330 113.050 47.99 4.1995 25.16 6.7420 34.735 108.0775 45.88 4.0145 22.3175 The participants in the EMS are not maintaining exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper functioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluc- tuations in exchange rates, the intervention currencies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. The authorized banks quote buying and selling rates for 14 foreign currencies.1 On December 31, 1980 the authorized banks' buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were f. 2.12825 and f. 2.13075, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized banks are freely permitted to buy and sell convertible and inconvertible currencies, both spot and forward, against convertible currencies, including deposits in nonresident guilder accounts, and incon- vertible currencies; they are free to deal with residents and nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks. Forward exchange contracts are not limited as to delivery period, nor is an underlying transaction required. Residents are free to conclude spot transactions with other residents, 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Irish pounds, Japa- nese yen, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 292 including authorized banks, and they may conclude forward transactions with authorized banks for any period. The intermediation of authorized banks is not obligatory in those forward currency transactions in which the guilder is not involved. Nonbank residents are free to hold foreign currency accounts at home and are permitted to hold accounts in their own names with banks abroad; for any one holder, aggregate overdrafts on the latter accounts may not result in gross foreign borrowing in excess of f. 500,000 a calendar year with- out specific license (see section on Capital, below). The Kingdom of the Netherlands formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory Transactions with the Netherlands Antilles are subject to the same exchange controls as transactions with other countries. Vis-a-vis any third countries with which pay- ments agreements might be in force, the Netherlands and the Netherlands Antilles will, if so stipulated, con- stitute the Netherlands Monetary Area. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Netherlands Bank on behalf of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs, Finance, Economic Affa irs, and Agriculture. Import and export licensing, including transit trade,2 are handled by the Central Import-Export Agency (CDIU) and the delegated offices, under directives from the Directorate- General for Foreign Economic Relations. For their exchange transactions, residents are required to use the intermediation of commercial banks authorized to hand le these within the scope of general and special licenses granted by the licensing authorities. For all current payments to, or receipts from, nonresidents exceeding f. 3,000, and for all capital payments or receipts, nonbank residents as well as nonauthorized banks are required to indicate, on an exchange control fo rm, the nature of the underlying transaction as well as the currency and amount paid or received. Separate regulations govern the reporting of settlements where no transfer of money is involved. Prescription of Currency In effecting payments to nonresidents or collecting receipts from them, residents may make use of guilders or any foreign currency. If such payments are made f rom, or are received in, the Netherlands, they must use the intermediation of authorized banks or of other domestic institutions or persons designated by the Neth- erlands Bank. Residents are free, however, to open and m a in t a in bank accounts abroad; in that case, they must 2 The only transit trade transactions still subject to specific license are purchases and sales of strategic goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution notify the Netherlands Bank, and receipts and pay- ments are to be reported to the Bank in accordance with the relative regulations. There are specific regulations for payments in respect of certain direct imports from Egypt.3 Payments in any foreign currency between residents may be made freely. There are no bilateral payments agreements in force. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are free to open and maintain nonresi- dent accounts with authorized banks in the Netherlands in_ guilders or any foreign currency, and to effect pay- ments to, or collect receipts from, residents. All current payments or receipts are freely permitted, as well as transfers of balances to and from other nonresident accounts. Some capital payments or receipts, however, are subject to license from the Netherlands Bank (see section on Capital, below). Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union are free from import licenses. Import licenses are required for imports originating in Hong Kong, Japan, and state trading countries, and for the import of goods of unknown origin. In addition, import licenses are required for a limited number of products, mainly in the agricultural, steel, and textile sectors, when not of EC origin. Except for imports of textiles originating in the Far East and in state trading countries, most imports that require an import license are free from quantitative restriction. Most imports from Eastern European coun- tries are formally liberalized. Imports from non-EC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EC are subject to import levies that have replaced all previ- ous barriers to imports; common EC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. Payments for imports may be made freely, provided that the method of payment conforms to the relative exchange control regulations. Residents may freely make advance payments for imports of commodities, but they require prior approval from the Netherlands Bank to delay payment for periods in excess of those that are customary in the trade concerned. Payments for Invisibles Payments abroad for invisibles are permitted freely. Residents may take out any amount in foreign and domestic banknotes and coin or documents of value for travel purposes; these may be used for traveling expenses abroad as well as for purchases for which payment in cash is customary in the trade concerned. Payments for interest, dividends, and contractual amortization due to nonresidents are permitted freely. 3 Fifty per cent of these payments are used to settle Netherlands claims outstanding under the indemnity agreement with Egypt. NETHERLANDS Nonresidents may export all unutilized documents of value for travel purposes as well as foreign and Nether- lands banknotes and coin which they have imported or have obtained in the Netherlands by drawing on their accounts or by exchanging other currencies. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for only a few commodi- ties, mostly of a strategic character, and for some agri- cultural products, iron and steel scrap and related products, and certain nonferrous metals. Residents may freely grant credit in respect of exports of commodities, but they require prior permission from the Netherlands Bank to accept payment in advance of delivery in excess of the customary practice in the trade concerned. The surrender of export proceeds is not obligatory. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no requirements attached to receipts by residents from current invisibles. Nonresidents may bring into the Netherlands for travel purposes any amounts of foreign banknotes and documents of value; these may be used for traveling expenses in the Nether- lands as well as for purchases for which payment in cash is customary in the trade concerned. Capital Most external capital transactions are free. The main capital transactions of nonbank residents still subject to case-by-case review are (1) financial borrowing from nonresidents exceeding f. 500,000 a year; (2) the issue of interest-bearing domestic securities, and the sale of such unlisted securities, to nonresidents; (3) lending to nonresidents exceeding f. 10 million a year to the same nonresident; and (4) the acquisition of foreign unlisted interest-bearing guilder securities. The inward transfer of capital originating from short- term and medium-term borrowing abroad by nonbank residents continues to be restricted for reasons of mone- tary policy. Long-term borrowing abroad for domestic use by resident enterprises is generally permitted upon application if the loans meet the following conditions: ( 1) the period between the start of the contract and the ma tur i ty date of the last repayment shall be either ( a) at least ten years with a fixed rate of interest which may be adjusted once, after five years, or (b) at least seven years with a fixed rate of interest for the whole period to maturity; (2) the average period to maturity shall be at least five and a half years; (3) repayment before the dates provided for in the contract is pre- cluded; and (4) to the extent that the loan is denom- inated in guilders, the issue of bearer debt certificates shall not be allowed. Once such loans have been licensed, permission to give guarantees and other security to nonresident lenders will also be granted. Apart from the above, the inward transfer of foreign capital (other than for portfolio investment in listed securities or the purchase of real estate, see below) is in 293 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS general permitted only if the capital constitutes a direct investment. In addition to foreign participation in the capital of companies, direct investment is considered to include intercompany financial loans f rom the foreign parent company with a fixed term of at least five years. Under certain conditions loans f rom other affiliated foreign companies are also being licensed. The proceeds of foreign loans licensed for domestic use (meeting the conditions enumerated above) may alternatively be used for employment abroad. Other borrowing is in general permitted only if the proceeds are employed abroad. In this respect, employment of the proceeds is stipulated to be either direct investment abroad (which is considered to include purchases of ships and a i rc ra f t) or repayment of foreign credits raised earlier under an exchange control permission. Companies working on the Netherlands sector of the continental shelf, whether foreign owned or resident owned, are permitted to take up foreign credits with a fixed maturity of at least five years to the full extent of their financing requirements; in duly warranted cases, credits from foreign parent companies may be licensed for shorter maturities. Resident units of international companies are free to maintain current accounts with their head offices or subsidiaries abroad for the purpose of intercompany settlements; changes in the accounts are to be reported to the Netherlands Bank in accordance with the relative regulations. Short-term foreign bank credit for the financing of imports is licensed if it is directly connected with a specific import transaction; for long-term financ- ing, importers are referred to the domestic credit marke t. Sales to nonresidents, including central banks, of Nether- lands Treasury paper and bank acceptances denom ina ted in guilders are prohibited. Lending by nonbank residents to nonresidents (whether affiliated companies or others) is free up to f. 10 million a year to the same nonresident; larger amounts are normally permitted on application. Public issues on the domestic capital market on behalf of non- residents are scheduled, and if necessary limited, by the Netherlands Bank in accordance with the market's capacity to absorb issues. In the private placement sector of the capital market (the market for debt certificates or onderhandse leningen}, ins t i tu t ional investors are liberally permitted to extend loans to non- residents. The maximum size of each loan is set at f. 75 million and the minimum ma tur i ty at ten years, with repayment to take place in at least five equal install- ments. The lenders are required to deliver in foreign currency. A queue system with an issue calendar for nonresident borrowers is used to ensure an orderly market. Participation by residents in the capital of companies abroad is free. The inward or outward transfer of proceeds f rom the sale or liquidation of direct investments is free. Repayment of licensed loans may be made or received freely, provided that any rele- 294 vant stipulations in the license are complied with. Transactions between residents and nonresidents in all stocks and bonds listed on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange take place at official market exchange rates and are unrestricted. Residents may freely purchase officially listed securities abroad. Transactions between residents and nonresidents in unlisted stocks are free. However, residents are not allowed to purchase unlisted fixed-interest securities (such as notes) on the Euro- market denominated in guilders and issued by non- residents. Nonbank residents may issue bonds and notes abroad provided that if the proceeds are repatriated, the period between the start of the loan contract and the ma tu r i ty date of the last repayment is at least seven years, and the average period of ma tu r i ty is at least five and a ha lf years. The proceeds of securities sold in the Netherlands by nonresidents are transferable in any currency, irrespective of the seller's country of domicile or residence. Nonresidents may have their securities, domestic or foreign, exported to them; securities held in the Netherlands are not subject to deposit. Nonresidents may freely purchase real estate in the Netherlands for personal use or investment, and resi- dents may freely purchase real estate abroad. Extension of payments w i th in the framework of such transactions is also free ly perm i t ted. Residents, when purchasing real estate abroad, may borrow on mortgage from a non- resident an amount not exceeding the purchase amount. Previously acquired foreign real estate may be mort- gaged for a loan (provided the amount of the mortgage does not exceed the value of the real es ta te). Subject to cer ta in conditions, residents may also incur a debt toward a nonresident, on the security of a mortgage, for the purchase amount of real estate situated in the Netherlands. G if ts and dona t ions to nonresidents are free. Emi- g ran ts may export any amount in foreign and domestic currency. They acqu ire nonresident status upon leaving the Ne the r lands and may upon departure have remitted to them their total assets in the Netherlands. Non- residents inher i t ing f rom estates in the Netherlands may have the proceeds transferred to them freely. There are no restrictions on commercial banks' spot external positions. They are, however, required to ma in ta in a balanced total position in each foreign cur- rency (i.e., spot plus forward pos i t ion ). In this context, the banks are required to report their spot position, as well as the ir fo rwa rd position with residents and non- residents, respectively, in each foreign currency at the end of each mon th; for deutsche mark, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars, the same data must also be reported at mid-month. Moreover, copies of all forward exchange contracts with nonresidents are for- warded to the Netherlands Bank. Banks may freely lend to fo re ign banks as well as to foreign nonbanks; they are also free to pay customary rates of interest on nonresident-held guilder demand deposits, and to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution establish guilder time or savings deposits on their books in the names of nonresidents. Thus, their freedom to accept deposits f rom nonresidents ( inc lud ing foreign currency demand or time deposits) and to borrow abroad is unrestricted. All capital transfers by nonbank residents, whether free or permitted under license, must be no t if ied to the Balance of Payments Department of the Ne ther lands Bank. This includes suppliers' credits granted or received for periods in excess of one year; prepaymen ts exceed- ing f. 250,000 received for exports must be reported as such. Totals of security transactions must be reported periodically by securities brokers and authorized banks or, if transactions take place through a fore ign bank account, by the resident parties concerned. Gold The Netherlands Bank engages in gold transactions only with monetary authorities and international f inan- cial ins t i tu t ions. Neither the Bank nor any government agency impor ts or markets gold for indus t r ial use. Authorized banks and nonbank residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold ( f ine gold, gold coin, and gold alloys) in the Netherlands or abroad. Imports and exports of gold do not require exchange licenses or import and export licenses. There is a free gold market in Amsterdam. Domestic sales of gold coin are subject to value-added tax at 4 per cent. The value-added tax on medallions and commemorative coins is 18 per cent. Transfers of gold in bars and other elementary forms are taxed at 4 per cent (except for transactions of the Netherlands Bank with foreign monetary au tho r i t i e s ); all NETHERLANDS other gold transactions are taxed at 18 per cent. Com- mercial imports of gold jewelry and of articles contain- ing minor quan t i t ies of gold, such as watches, require import licenses only when or ig ina t ing in Hong Kong, Japan, or s ta te trad ing countries. The domestic gold- wo rk ing indus try, instead of hav ing to borrow capital to buy in i t ial amoun ts of its raw ma ter ia l, is permitted to borrow this gold f rom nonresidents under contract of m u t u um. Guarantees or other security required for this may also be freely given. The quan t i t ies of gold thus imported must be reported to the Ne ther lands Bank on a quar ter ly basis. Changes during 1980 January 9. Restrictions on goods transac t ions with Z imbabwe (former ly Rhodesia) were l i f ted; all restric- tions on payments transactions with Zimbabwe, includ- ing those relating to bank accounts held by Zimbabweans and convertibility of proceeds, were l if ted w i th effect f rom Janua ry 20. January 28. The Netherlands Bank l if ted the foreign position regu la t ion under which external liabilities of resident commerc ial banks were not allowed to exceed their external assets by more than a specified franchise. August 4. The regulation concerning the issue of licenses for raising fore ign loans to firfance oil and gas exploitation in the Netherlands sector of the continental shelf was relaxed; in du ly wa r ran ted cases, credits from fo re ign parent companies would be licensed for maturi- ties shorter than five years. For other foreign credits (i.e., bank lo an s ), the required m in imum maturity rema ined at five years. 295 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES1 (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Netherlands Antilles is the Netherlands Antilles Guilder, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at NA f. 1.7900 = US$1. The official buying rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1980 were NA f. 1.77 per US$1 for banknotes and NA f. 1.79 per US$1 for drafts, checks, and transfers. The official selling rate was NA f. 1.81 per US$1. The Bank of Netherlands Antilles (the cen- tral bank) deals with commercial banks at interbank rates; it does not normally deal with the public. Official buying and selling rates for certain other currencies2 are set daily on the basis of rates for the U.S. dollar abroad. There is an exchange tax of 0.80 per cent on sales of foreign exchange.3 Commercial banks require the approval of the central bank to invest or hold for- eign currency balances,4 but authorized banks have been granted general permissions for these purposes. Administration of Control Exchange licenses, where required, are issued by the central bank. Import licenses, where required, are issued by the Department of Economic A f fa i r s. The commercial banks are permitted by the central bank to provide foreign exchange for most current trans- actions without prior approval. The central bank may grant exemption from obligation of surrendering foreign exchange, insofar as the assets or moneys concerned were acquired from nonresidents as principals; the foreign exchange may then be held or used freely until fu r th er notice. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made in any currency except Neth- erlands Antilles guilders. Receipts may be accepted in any convertible currency except Netherlands Antilles guilders. For statistical purposes, all payments made by residents through the authorized banks in foreign exchange, as well as all receipts through the authorized banks, must be reported to the central bank. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open nonresident accounts in any foreign currency. Nonresidents (including holders of foreign investment funds, etc., with nonresident status) are permitted to hold nonresident accounts in Netherlands Antilles guilders only if the authorized 1 The Netherlands Antilles is a nonmetropolitan te r r i to ry in respect of which the Kingdom of the Ne ther lands has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agreement. a Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, pound sterling, Suriname guilders, Swiss francs, and Venezuelan bolivares. 3 Purchases of foreign exchange by resident companies with non- resident status for exchange control purposes are exempt f rom the exchange tax. 4 All currencies other than considered foreign currencies. the Netherlands Antilles guilder are 296 bank concerned considers that they have certain interests in the Netherlands Antilles which render such an account desirable; balances in such accounts may not exceed NA f. 10,000 without central bank approval. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain items, such as narcotics and explosives, are subject to license for reasons of public policy. Imports of a number of commodities, including edible oils and certain domestic appliances, into Aruba, Bonaire, and Curasao are subject to licensing by the Department of Economic Affa irs, while commercial imports of passenger automobiles built prior to Octo- ber 31, 1979 are prohibited. Payments for permitted imports may be made freely. Companies with non- resident status normally finance their imports with their own foreign exchange. Certain commodities are subject to import surcharges in Aruba, Bonaire, and Curasao. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles are not restricted. For most types of current invisibles remittances may be made freely through the authorized banks. Licenses are required mainly for the purchase of travel exchange in excess of the equivalent of NA f. 400 a person for each day to be spent abroad, and for certain personal remittances in excess of NA f. 5,000 for each trans- action or in excess of NA f. 25,000 a person a year.5 Such licenses are freely granted when no capital transfer seems to be involved. Nonresidents may take with them on departure any foreign currency which they brought in on arrival. The export of Netherlands Antilles banknotes is limited to NA f. 200 a person. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports do not require licenses. Exchange proceeds must be surrendered to an authorized bank within six months of shipment, with the exception of export pro- ceeds received by companies with nonresident status. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles (except those of firms with nonresident status) must, in prin- ciple, be surrendered to an authorized bank within eight days of receipt, but in practice, the public is allowed to hold foreign banknotes and coin, since the domestic currency and the U.S. dollar circulate concurrently. Travelers may bring in with them any amount of checks, travelers checks, or banknotes denominated in foreign currency. Each traveler may also bring in NA f. 200 in Netherlands Antilles banknotes. 5 On January 1, 1981 Currency Notifications Nos. 80/3 and 80/4 came into e f fec t: the former raised the limits on the amounts remittable without license for each transaction and for each year to NA f. 50,000 and NA f. 250,000, respectively; by the latter notifi- cation, the limit on freely remittable funds in respect of life insurance and contracts of indemnity was maintained at NA f. 25,000 a year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Capital Foreign investment in the Netherlands Antilles requires a license, which is, in general, granted if the investment is in the economic and social interest of the islands; the Investment Incentives Program, as amended, provides for duty-free entry of many commodities as well as tax facilities. New industrial companies pri- marily engaged in exporting may be granted nonresident status by the central bank, which confers on the com- pany concerned exemption from exchange control (except in its transactions with residents), including exemption from the requirement of surrendering foreign currency receipts. Such exemption may also be granted to companies concerned with investment, patent holding, shipping, and insurance. Outward flows of resident-owned capital are subject to control, and certain capital transactions by or on behalf of residents are restricted. Life insurance con- tracts in foreign currency between residents and foreign insurance companies for a minimum term of ten years are licensed up to an amount which is fixed annually, depending on the foreign exchange position, but outward transfers of capital by life insurance companies are not restricted; contracts expressed in domestic currency are freely permitted in any amount by virtue of general permissions granted to individual foreign insurers. Investment by residents in real estate situated abroad requires a license, but this is normally given freely. Investment in officially listed foreign securities (i.e., securities issued outside the Netherlands Antilles or payable or optionally payable in the currency of a country other than the Netherlands Antilles) is subject to licensing; such licenses are generally granted pro- vided the securities are registered abroad in the name of an authorized bank and provided foreign payments are channeled through authorized banks. Purchases of mutual fund shares are prohibited. Authorized banks may borrow foreign currency abroad from nonresidents (including residents with non- NETHERLANDS ANTILLES resident status), or accept foreign currency deposits f rom nonresidents, for relending to nonresidents or redeposit abroad; their borrowing from nonresidents for relending to residents is restricted for monetary policy reasons. Banks require central bank approval to incur a net foreign liability position, and limits are placed on their working balances in foreign currency. Nonresi- dents are not normally permitted to acquire balances in Netherlands Antilles guilders. Local borrowing in domestic currency by nonresidents (including resident companies regarded as nonresidents for exchange con- trol purposes) is restricted. Gold There are four commemorative gold coins, each of which is legal tender: the NA f. 200 (1976) Bicenten- nial, the N A f. 200 (1977) Peter Stuyvesant, the NA f. 100 (1978), commemorating the 150th anniver- sary of the central bank, and the NA f. 50 (1979), commemorating the 25th anniversary of the Statute of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in the Netherlands Antilles for numismatic and investment purposes; authorized banks may freely negotiate gold coin among themselves and with other residents. Residents other than the mone- tary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed without special permission to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coin, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the central bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports of coin by authorized banks, and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1980 June 30. Currency Notification No. 80/2 was issued, authorizing residents to purchase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of NA f. 400 a person for each day to be spent abroad. 297 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of New Zealand is the New Zealand Dollar. Exchange rates are computed on the basis of the fixed relationship between the New Zealand dollar and a basket of currencies representing New Zealand's main trading partners. The weights of the currencies in the basket are established in accordance with their proportionate share of New Zealand's total current over- seas receipts and payments; the weights are adjusted quarterly. The exchange rate of the New Zealand dollar for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is fixed daily on the basis of the average weighted variations in quotations for the U.S. dollar in relation to the other currencies included in the basket. The peg of the New Zealand dollar to the basket of currencies is subject to small frequent adjustments primarily on the basis of cost and price trends in New Zealand relative to those of trading partners, but account can also be taken of other factors bearing on the balance of payments. For all currencies except the U.S. dollar the trading banks are free to move the spot exchange rate in response to market conditions throughout each business day. The outer limits for the telegraphic transfer buying and sell- ing rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1980 were $NZ 1.0338 and $NZ 1.0446, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The trading banks are permitted to conclude with their customers forward exchange contracts to buy or sell foreign currencies in exchange for New Zealand dollars, irrespective of the purpose for which the f u n ds are required or the source from which they are obtained, provided that any outward remittance made in the form of a forward contract also complies with exchange con- trol regulations. These forward contracts may be either for a fixed term or for optional delivery dates. The Reserve Bank sets the forward premium or discount rate for the U.S. dollar, the main criterion being the relationship between interest rates in New Zealand and in the United States. For all other currencies, the trading banks are free to set their own rates for forward transactions. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of New Zealand. The Reserve Bank has given discre- tionary authority to the trading banks to approve appli- cations for certain remittances of funds overseas. The Overseas Investment Commission administers the regu- lations governing foreign direct investment in New Zealand. Export and import licensing is the responsi- bility of the Customs Department and the Department of Trade and Industry, respectively. 298 Prescription of Currency Payments to and from residents of countries other than New Zealand may be made or received in any foreign currency.1 Payment to and from New Zealand currency accounts held with banks in New Zealand by banks not domiciled in New Zealand is also an accept- able form of payment. Nonresident Accounts The Reserve Bank supervises certain specified accounts in New Zealand of residents of other countries ("controlled accounts"). The accounts in New Zealand dollars of overseas banks may be used for the settlement of transactions with other countries, but they may only be funded from overseas or by amounts which would otherwise be remittable from New Zealand. Imports and Import Payments Imports are controlled through an annual Import Licensing Schedule. The import categories included in the schedule are as follows: Category "E" (exempt) covers virtually all primary products (other than whea t), most raw materials and components (e.g., base chemi- cals and fertilizers) and machinery of a type not pro- duced in New Zealand, and some consumer goods. Goods in this category are exempt from licensing, as are, in addition, a small range of goods of Australian origin.2 With the exception of a few specified primary products, imports from the Pacific islands3 under the South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Coopera- tion Agreement (Sp ARTEC A) are free of licensing and du ty requirements. On a value basis, about 75 per cent of all private imports are exempt from licensing. The "Basic" category comprises items for which licenses are granted by reference to either the amount of licenses issued or the actual value of imports in a previous licensing period. Goods covered by this category include tires, paper products, and a range of materials for use in manufacture. The "C" category covers a wide range of commodities, including most manufactures, e.g., machinery and appliances, aircraft, ships, and motor vehicles. Category "C" licenses are granted on an indi- vidual basis on such criteria as need, availability of domestic alternatives, and price. Imports of completely knocked-down automobiles are subject to a rolling replacement licensing program. "Administrative basic licenses" are issued automatically to ensure continuity of importation for certain regularly required goods in 1 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than New Zealand currency. 2 Under the terms of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agree- ment that came into force on January 1, 1966. 3 The islands under this arrangement are those cons t i tu t ing the South Pacific Forum, i.e. (in addition to Australia and New Zea land ), Cook Islands, Fiji, Kiribati, Nau ru, Niue, Papua New Guinea, Solo- mon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, Western Samoa, and Vanua tu. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the "C" category that correspond to only part of an item code, for example, spare parts. The overall administration of the system has been eased over the recent past, with greater availability of licenses for inputs to export-oriented industry, to encour- age rationalization of production and greater cost con- tainment within industry generally. All licenses issued may be used for imports from any source. A degree of flexibility in the application of the Import Licensing Schedule is achieved through the use of Group Schemes ( for Industry and Interchangeability Groups) that enable importers to transfer individual entitlements to a composite license instead of holding licenses for separate items, and to import, up to the total amount, any item or combination of items in the group. "No-remittance licenses" for imports outside the Import Licensing Schedule may be issued in special circumstances, viz., for advertising material supplied free of charge; gifts, passengers' baggage, replacement of faulty or damaged goods; trade samples supplied free of charge; and temporary imports. The trading banks have authority to make foreign exchange available for payments in respect of all licensed imports and all imports that do not require a license. Payments for Invisibles The trading banks are permitted to sell exchange for overseas payments within prescribed limits for most categories of invisibles, subject in appropriate cases, to the submission of supporting documents. Payments in excess of these limits, and for categories not included in the commercial banks' permitted list, require the specific approval of the Reserve Bank. Banks are author- ized to sell foreign exchange for genuine foreign travel purposes without prior reference to the Reserve Bank up to $NZ 1,000 a person a month or part thereof, with a maximum of $NZ 4,000 a person in any 12-month period. Requests for amounts in excess of $NZ 1,000 a month or for a total of more than $NZ 4,000 in any 12-month period must be referred to the Reserve Bank. Larger amounts of exchange for any type of travel are authorized at the discretion of the Reserve Bank, which meets all reasonable requests for genuine travel purposes. In addition to the above, banks in New Zealand and their branches or agents in London and Australia may sell foreign currencies, without limit as to amount, to New Zealand travelers against privately held foreign funds. An international departure tax of $NZ 25 a per- son aged 12 and over ( $N Z5 for children over 2 but under 12) is payable on all tickets obtained in New Zealand for departure from New Zealand, except for certain promotional, cultural, or educational travel. This tax is administered by the Customs Department. The remittance abroad of dividends, interest, and profits due to nonresidents is approved, subject to formal authentication; for dividends and interest, authority up NEW ZEALAND to $NZ 1,500 in any 12-month period to any one recipi- ent, has been delegated to the authorized banks. Most contractual obligations also are normally approved, but each remittance requires approval, and new commit- ments, such as royalty agreements with overseas licen- sors or overseas borrowing, require the prior consent of the Reserve Bank and, for companies, of the Over- seas Investment Commission. Remittances abroad on account of maintenance and/ or gifts by recognized New Zealand religious and chari- table organizations or individuals operating as members of such an organization are not subject to limitation. Remittances for religious and charitable purposes, other than of the type specified above, are approved by the Reserve Bank, subject to formal authentication. Any resident may freely make personal remittances up to a total of $NZ 100 a year to any destination overseas for any purpose except gambling or building up assets in the remitter's name. Travelers may take with them up to $NZ 100 in New Zealand currency, in any denomina- tion of notes or coin. Exports and Export Proceeds To ensure that export earnings are returned through the banking system, an export license from the Cus- toms Department is required before any goods can be exported from New Zealand. General export licenses, valid for five years, are issued to regular exporters. Particular export licenses, as required, are issued to new exporters or to those who do not export on a regular basis. Unless prior consent is obtained, pay- ments for exports must be received within six months f rom the date of shipment. Certain items classified as strategic goods may be exported only when specific requirements have been met and an export permit has been issued. Encouragement is extended by the Government aimed at raising the level of exports from New Zealand, particularly nontraditional exports. Three new export incentive schemes were introduced on April 1, 1980 to replace existing incentives: (1) The Export Perform- ance Taxation Incentive (EPTI), an incentive related to the sale of goods and services (including tourism) and based on a firm's net foreign exchange earnings; ( 2) the Export Market Development Taxation Incentive (EMDTI), designed to encourage the development of export markets; and (3) the Export Program Grants Scheme (EPGS), an alternative to the EMDTI and designed to encourage firms to undertake more thorough and coordinated marketing programs than is the case under the EMDTI. To facilitate export competitiveness, import licenses can be issued to manu fac tu r ing exporters for materials and components where it is established that equivalent goods available f rom domestic sources have price or other characteristics that jeopardize export performance. Bonus import licenses are available (until June 30, 299 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND 1981) to manufacturers who have exported manufac- tured goods in which licensed imported raw materials and components have been used. Proceeds from Invisibles When remuneration for services provided or to be provided in New Zealand for overseas residents by New Zealand residents (including corporate bodies ordi- narily resident in New Zealand) is paid in the form of foreign assets,4 the foreign currency proceeds must be sold to the New Zealand banking system; interest and dividends earned overseas from portfolio investment are excluded from this surrender requirement. If the remuneration is in a form other than a foreign currency or a balance with an overseas bank, it must be converted into foreign currency and then surrendered. The disposal overseas by New Zealand residents of foreign income f rom other invisibles such as interest and dividends is permitted, and the foreign currency proceeds may be sold to a New Zealand bank. Travelers may bring into the country unlimited amounts of fore ign and domestic banknotes and coin. Capital With the exception of capital issues outside New Zea- land and overseas borrowings, consents are not required in respect of capital receipts. While overseas borrow- ing by financial institutions requires consent, this is usually granted where the funds are required for indus- trial development purposes. To be eligible for repatri- ation, capital must have been transferred to New Zea- land through normal banking channels or in some other way approved by the authorities, e.g., as imports of plant or machinery. Capital so transferred, including capital gains and capitalized profits, may be repatriated, after the formal approval of the Reserve Bank has been obtained. In the case of overseas borrowing, repayments are not normally permitted until the expiry of the term for which the funds were borrowed. Overseas com- panies seeking to establish themselves in New Zealand must obtain the approval of the Overseas Investment Commission. Capital issues outside New Zealand by companies incorporated in New Zealand require the approval of the Overseas Investment Commission; overseas borrow- ing by such companies also requires prior approval. New Zealand subsidiaries and branches of overseas companies must obtain the consent of the Overseas Investment Commission if they wish to borrow in New Zealand, whether for long-term or short-term 4 The kinds of remuneration that are involved are (1) the payment or provision of any money; (2) the crediting of any sum in any account at any bank or with any person; (3) the acquisition or pro- vision of any securities, or any real or personal p rope r ty, or of any right thereto or interest therein (whe ther actual or con t ing en t ); and (4) any benefit, whether by way of doing work or the pe r fo rmance of services, or otherwise, under any contract agreement, scheme, or transaction of any kind (whether or not it is enforceable or intended to be enforceable by legal proceedings). 300 finance. Local borrowing by companies that are 50 per cent or more overseas owned is normally restricted to 15 per cent of the turnover in the previous financial year, with a special allowance in respect of any export turnover. Such companies may borrow locally, in addition, an amount in proportion to the level of their borrowings from overseas, based on the ratio of New Zealand and overseas equity holdings. Nonresident per- sons or companies wishing to make a direct investment in a New Zealand company through the purchase or exchange of shares are required to obtain the consent of the Overseas Investment Commission in respect of any proposed offer for such shares whenever the invest- ment would confer on the offerer the beneficial entitle- ment to 25 per cent or more of any class of shares, or enable the offerer to exercise 25 per cent or more of the voting power at any general meeting.5 Emigrants to any destination may upon departure transfer their entire assets to their new country of resi- dence. Applications for the rem i t tance abroad of lega- cies from the estate of a New Zealand resident are normally approved in full. The authorities do not normally make exchange avail- able to private persons or firms for the purchase of overseas securities for portfolio investment. New Zea- land Government stock on the London register pur- chased overseas by New Zealand residents after Sep- tember 5, 1969 may not be transferred f rom the United Kingdom to the New Zealand register. A New Zealand resident owning freely held overseas securities may retain them abroad or he may sell them to a nonresident for any foreign currency, which may be reinvested in other overseas securities, may be remitted to New Zealand through the banking system, or may be retained at the disposal of the New Zealand resident. With limited exceptions, sales of overseas securities by one New Zealand resident to another may be made only in exchange for other overseas securities or for any overseas currency. The only overseas securities that may be traded between New Zealand residents in exchange for New Zealand currency are those that were registered in the names of New Zealand residents on June 16, 1966 and for which scrip or other documents of title were issued; the purchaser must lodge the share scrip with the Reserve Bank. These securities may also be sold for any overseas currency, in which case the proceeds must immediately be remitted to New Zealand through the banking system or be reinvested in other overseas securities within three months. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coin in New Zealand without restriction. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than gold coin and jewelry con- stituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses 5 Automatic approval is given to a foreign firm wishing to acquire control of a company with assets of up to $NZ 50,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution issued by the Customs Department; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Commercial imports of gold jewelry are licensed restrictively. Changes during 1980 January 1. Additional import license allocations covering a wide range of products and valid until September 30, 1980 were made by the Government. April. Three new export incentive schemes came into effect: the EPTI, the EPGS, and the EMDTI. Certain existing schemes, such as the Export Investment Incen- tive Schemes (EIIS), and specific adjustment and ad hoc schemes were retained unchanged. (The EPTI replaced the former taxation Incentive Schemes for Increased Exports (IETI), New Markets Increased Exports, Export of Qualifying Services, and Export Earnings from Qualifying Overseas Projects. In order to smooth the transition from the IETI to the EPTI, the two schemes as they apply to the export of goods will run in parallel until March 31, 1983.) The EPTI is available to all exporters of qualifying goods and services, to the tourist industry, and to contractors of overseas construction and development projects, and may be claimed either as a tax rebate or as a refund. The EPTI relates the amount of incentive directly to the domestic value added in each dollar of qualifying exports,6 and rewards the firm's total exports rather than only the increase in the exports as under the pre- vious schemes. The basic rates under the EPTI are established at 14 per cent7 of the domestic value added 6 Valued at f .o.b. and net of the unprocessed va lue of any p r im a ry product inputs. 7 This rate is arrived at by transferring the cost of IETI to the EPTI. In case of qualifying goods this rate is expressed in terms of a rate of incentive on total f.o.b. sales of between 1.4 per cent and 11.9 per cent, according to the assessed domestic value added on individual commodities. For exporters of qua l i fy ing services and eligible tourist agencies, the rate of incentive on net foreign ex- change remittances is 11.9 per cent and 10 per cent, respectively. NEW ZEALAND for each dollar of foreign exchange earned and remitted to New Zealand. The EPGS, which replaced the former Service Export Development Grant Scheme (SEDGS) and the New Markets Development Grants Scheme (NMDGS ), provides a nontaxable grant of 64 per cent of budgeted qualifying expenditure on the development of an officially designated "target market"; the balance of qualifying expenditure is ordinarily deductible from assessable income. To qualify, an exporter must have net export earnings exceeding $NZ 0.1 million, or be part of an industry group, thus encouraging smaller exporters to group together in order to claim the incentive. The EMDTI, a modified version of the previous "150 per cent" Export Market Development and Tourist Promotion Taxation Incentive, provides assistance in the form of tax rebates to firms at the level of 67.5 per cent for qualifying expenditure incurred in activities directly related to the promotion abroad of New Zea- land goods, services, and tourism. July 1. The basic license allocation for 1980/81 was set at the equivalent of 125 per cent of qualifying licenses in 1979/80; a number of goods not made in New Zealand were exempted from import licensing, and protective measures were removed or reduced on cer- tain clothing items. July 4. Import duty rates were increased on a variety of beers and other alcoholic beverages. July 15. New Zealand signed the SPARTECA; the agreement provided that New Zealand, together with Australia, will grant duty-free and unrestricted access for most of the products exported by the other islands of the South Pacific Forum (see footnote 3) on a non- reciprocal basis. For certain goods on a "negative list" compiled by New Zealand, duty-free and unrestricted access will not apply. 301 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Nicaragua is the Nicaraguan Cor- doba. Nicaragua maintains a dual exchange market system. Certain current and capital receipts must be surrendered to the Central Bank or its authorized agents at the official exchange rate, and the Central Bank or its authorized agents will sell foreign exchange at the official rate for specified current and capital payments and transfers. All other permitted foreign exchange transac- tions take place at freely determined ma rket rates. On December 31, 1980 the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were C$ 10.00 and C$ 10.10 respec- tively, per US$1. The intervention currency in the offi- cial market is the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. Nicaragua accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from July 20, 1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is administered by the Central Bank, which has sole authority to buy and sell foreign exchange. This au thor i ty has been delegated to the commercial banks, and the Central Bank deals with the public only to the extent that it accepts deposits in foreign currency, and for purposes of monetary control. The Central Bank is responsible for classifying imports, for issuing export authorizations, and for authorizing sales of exchange at the official rate for capital transac- tions and for payments for invisibles. Prescription of Currency There is no prescription of currency, but the customs authorities have the power to prohibit an export if the currency stipulated for payment is not readily convertible into U.S. dollars in international markets. Payments to Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in Nicara- guan cordobas through the Central American Clearing House. For compensation through the Clearing House, the Central Bank does not accept banknotes of El Sal- vador in excess of 400,000 Salvadoran colones a month and of Guatemala in excess of 200,000 Guatemalan quetzales. Imports and Import Payments All commercial and industrial importers are required to be registered. There are two broad categories of regis- tered importers: those who are permitted to import any kind of merchandise and those who may import only for their own industrial needs. Unregistered individuals may not import for their own personal consumption except for the unaccompanied baggage of those persons who have resided outside Nicaragua for more than one 302 year. Commercial and industrial imports f rom all coun- tries, except the other Central American countries, must be consigned to persons or firms holding an importer's license from the M in is try of Economy. Import licenses are not required, but import transactions must be regis- tered with and be authorized by the Central Bank by means of import declarations. In view of the current shortage of foreign exchange, an import priority list has been established for goods originating outside the Central American Common Market. Goods appearing on the list comprise essentials such as medicines, foodstuffs, raw materials for industry and agriculture, industrial machinery, and transport equipment. There has been an accumulation of current payments arrears. Payments for imports f rom the Central American region must be effected in cordobas by bank check or certified check authorized for conversion through the Central American Clearing House. Payments for imports from outside the Central American region must be made with exchange purchased f rom the banking system, such payments being eligible for purchases at the official exchange rate.1 Payments are usually made by sight d ra f ts. Letters of credit are used for imports f rom Japan. Central Bank approval is not required to open a sight letter of credit but is required for a term letter of credit. The banks are not permitted to sell exchange for import payments in advance of the arrival of the documents. The Central Bank may authorize deferred payments or payment w i th funds derived f rom properly authenticated credits obtained abroad, provided that the imports are capital goods intended for develop- ment or production or for basic works complementary to production; such permission is at present limited mainly to industrial and agricultural machinery and certain raw materials. Imports are not released from customs unless evidence is submitted that either payment or acceptance has been made through a bank. In the la t ter case, the Central Bank must also approve the importation on credit terms; this requirement does not apply to du ty-free imports from member countries of the Central American Common Market. Under the provisions of the Central American Agree- ment on Fiscal Incentives, Nicaragua grants duty exon- erations on imports of raw materials and capital goods to approved industrial firms. Most imports originating outside the Central Ameri- can Common Market are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import du ty. Certain 1 However, by v i r tue of Decree No. 1-L (effective March 1, 1963) the exchange proceeds f rom bananas, coconuts, copra, and coconut by-produc ts exported th rough the ports of the region of El Cabo and the Depar tment of Zelaya may be used by the exporters to pay for commodities not produced in N icaragua, which they themselves import for the exclusive use of or consumption by the inhabitants of those areas. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution commodities are subject to a compensatory (selective) consumption tax, irrespective of their origin. Further- more, most commodities are subject to an 8 per cent general sales tax, whether they are imported or domes- tically produced, and there is an additional 2 per cent consumption tax levied for the benefit of the Municipal Welfare Board when the import takes place through Managua. Payments for Invisibles All sales of exchange at the official rate for payments related to invisibles must be authorized by the Central Bank. Amounts above those authorized by the Central Bank may be purchased in the f ree market. Foreign currency notes may be exported freely. For travel related to medical treatment, an allowance of up to US$3,000 a year, or more upon verification, may be purchased at the official rate for hospital bills and medi- cal expenses. Airlines operating or represented in Nica- ragua must accept payment for their services in cordobas at the official exchange rate plus a commission of 1 per cent. The Central Bank will authorize the sale of for- eign exchange at the official rate to these companies equivalent to the U.S. dollar amount of invoicing for services. Sales of exchange for transport other than by air will also be authorized at the official exchange rate. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are divided into two categories: ( 1) Tradi- tional exports, such as coffee, sugar cane, cotton, and cattle meat, are subject to control by the M in is try of Trade but require a general au thor iza t ion f rom the Central Bank and (2) all other non trad i t ional goods (this category requires specific authorization from the Central B ank ). The Central Bank issues the authoriza- tion after ver ify ing that the export prices are consistent with those prevailing in in terna t ional markets. In all other cases, the exporter must provide a guaran tee, either in the form of a bank guarantee or by the endorsement of fixed-term financial securities, that the foreign exchange proceeds will be surrendered within 20 days of shipment. Exchange proceeds f rom most exports must be sur- rendered to the bank ing system at the official exchange rate. For certain agricultural exports (live cattle, beans, rice, corn, and cottonseed), the Ministry of Foreign Trade may fix m in imum export prices or temporarily prohibit their export in order to avoid domestic short- ages. A graduated tax is imposed on exports of coffee, cotton, and meat. For coffee, a 50 per cent tax is applied on the excess of the price per quintal over C$1,000; it increases up to a fixed amount of C$400 plus 50 per cent on the excess over C$2,300. For NICARAGUA cotton, when the price exceeds C$700 a quintal, a tax of 10 per cent is applied on the excess; if the price reaches C$850.01 or more, a fixed tax of C$45 plus 70 per cent is levied on the excess. A tax of C$50 for each animal is charged on exports of meat if the price per pound ranges between C$10.01-12.00. The tax is C$37 when the price is C$15.01 or more. A tax equiv- alent to US$0.50 for each box of 40 pounds is levied on exports of bananas. A 5 per cent withholding levy is applied to cer ta in exporters when the In ternal Revenue Service has not received their income tax statements. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds f rom transportation and tour ism, f am i ly remittances, and l i fe insurance are not subject to a surrender requirement and may be converted in the free marke t. All other receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered. Foreign currency notes may be imported freely. Capital Foreign exchange proceeds f rom loans and from investments made under the Foreign Investment Law must be surrendered to the Cen tral Bank through the bank ing system or other authorized agents at the official exchange rate. Once fore ign debts have been renego- t ia ted, the Central Bank will au thor ize the sale of exchange at the off ic ial rate for the payment of principal and interest upon verification that the loan was con- verted th rough the b ank ing system at the proper t ime. Gold N a tu r al and ju r id ical persons may t rade in N icaragua in gold coins for num isma t ic purposes only. The Nica- raguan M in ing Ins t i tu te alone is entitled to produce gold. The Central Bank is in charge of selling this gold at prices preva i l ing in in te rna t ional gold markets. The export proceeds are t rans fe r red to the M in ing Institute in N ica raguan cordobas. The Central Bank sells gold to domestic industrial and other users. Commemorative gold coins were issued in 1967, 1975, and 1980. Changes during 1980 June 17. All 17 of Nicaragua's financial institutions, banks, and savings and loan associations were consoli- dated into five banks, to be administered by the state- owned Corporation Financiera Nacional. July 11. The parallel fore ign exchange market was officially closed f rom July 12 to July 20. September 8. The Central Bank announced that it would no longer convert cordobas into dollars at the official exchange rate for the purchase of a number of luxu ry goods, electrical appliances, textiles, and other locally available industrial products. 303 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Niger is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buying and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French f ranc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per mill for transfers from countries outside the West Afr ican Monetary Union and ojie of 2.50 per mill for transfers to such countries.2 Transfers by the Treas- ury and the Postal Administration and transactions in banknotes and travelers checks are exempted. Banks levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the West A f r ican Monetary Union, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to gold, Niger's exchange controls do not apply to ( 1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central A f r ican Repub- lic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the External Finance Service in the Ministry of Finance. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the banks, financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public, any informa t ion necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through the BCEAO, the Postal Admin- istration, or authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of External Trade in the Ministry of Economic A f fa i rs, Commerce, and Industry, subject to the visa of the External Finance Service in the Ministry of Finance, except for licenses relating to gold, which are granted by the Ministry of Finance. Import certificates for liberalized commodities are made out by the importer himself and are approved by the External Finance Service. Prescription of Currency Since Niger is an Operations Account country, settle- ments with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the 1The CFA f ranc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de TOuest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 Transfers between member countries of the Union are subject to a flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. 304 Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any Operations Account country. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West A f r ican Clearing House. Cer- tain settlements with Nigeria are still effected through special accounts.3 Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through correspondent banks in France, in foreign currencies, or in French francs, through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be credited with BCEAO banknotes mailed to the BCEAO agency in Niamey by an author- ized bank's foreign correspondent. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited, without prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO banknotes mailed by authorized intermediaries to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in South Africa are prohibited. Imports of soap, cement, and certain printed cotton fabrics are prohibited, irrespective of origin, unless a special authorization is issued by the Ministry of Eco- nomic A f fa i r s, Commerce, and Industry. The import from any source of rice, paddy, hulled rice, wheat flour, butane gas, several types of fabric, certain footwear, and certain plastic goods requires prior authorization, irre- spective of whether an import license or import certifi- cate is also required. A similar regime applies to imports of sugar, except f rom member countries of the Common Afr ican and Maur i t ian Organization, and to imports of matches, unless they originate in a member country of the West Afr ican Economic Community. Imports from France and the Operations Account countries of all goods other than those mentioned above may be made freely without a license or certificate. Imports from other countries require either a license or an import certificate. Imports of virtually all goods f rom Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia, and the six original member states of the EC, many goods from other OECD countries and their past or present dependent territories, and a smaller number of items from the United States and Canada are liberalized and require only an import certificate. Imports of nonliberalized goods from non-EC countries 3 The bilateral payments agreement with Nigeria lapsed at the end of 1977. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution outside the French Franc Area are made under global quotas in accordance with an annual program deter- mined each year by the Ministry of Economic Affa irs, Commerce, and Industry. Licenses for certain cotton fabrics are conditional upon purchases of the corre- sponding domestic product. Goods not subject to quan- titative restriction may be imported on an import cer- tificate. The Societe Nationale de Commerce et de Production du Niger (COPRONIGER) has a monopoly over the import of specified commodities. These include wheat, wheat flour, green tea, and certain textiles. All import transac- tions with foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when valued at more than CFAF 25,000 c.i.f. at the border. Import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the authorized bank is satisfied that the import transaction is genuine and in accordance with the import title. Import certificates require the visa of the External Finance Service if the goods have to be paid for before they are imported. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the External Finance Service, which for certain transactions has delegated its powers to the authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac- tion has been approved or does not require authoriza- tion. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Residents traveling as tourists to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to CFAF 100,000 a per- son a trip (CFAF 50,000 for children under t en ), which may be taken up twice a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining after return to Niger must be surrendered within eight days by sale to an authorized bank. The transfer of savings f rom their salaries by foreigners working in Niger is subject to prior approval by the External Finance Service and is normally limited to 50 per cent of net pay. Larger trans- fers are permitted, however, for bona fide reasons. Resident travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank- notes, French banknotes, and banknotes of other Opera- tions Account countries, in addition to their travel allo- cation. Resident travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes but, when traveling to a country of the French Franc Area outside the West African Monetary Union, must declare these if they exceed CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may freely take out up to CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, NIGER and banknotes of other Operations Account countries, and foreign notes up to the amount declared upon entry,4 or, if no declaration was made, up to CFAF 25,000; they may also take out freely any amount of foreign currency travelers checks, etc., issued abroad in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Afr ica are prohibited. All exports of rice and paddy require the prior authorization of the Ministry of Economic A f fa i rs, Commerce, and Industry. Exports of millet and sorghum are prohibited unless covered by a shipping document in the name of the Office des Produits Vivriers du Niger (OPVN ). Gum arabic may be exported only by COPRONIGER. With the exception of peanuts, peanut oil, peanut cakes, sisal, cotton, cottonseed, and certain other imported items, all of which require a license, all other exports to France (as defined above) and the Operations Account coun- tries may be made freely. Exports of domestic products and imported commodities to other countries require a license and an exchange commitment. In principle, the due date of payment for exports to foreign countries must not be later than 180 days a f ter arrival of the goods at their destination. Proceeds f rom exports, regardless of the buying country, must be collected and surrendered through an authorized intermediary bank within one month of the due date. All exports, regard- less of des t ina t ion, must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries f rom foreign assets, must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coin (except gold co in ). Residents must surrender within eight days of entry any foreign currency in excess of CFAF 5,000. Capital Capital movements between Niger and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such coun- tries are permitted freely. *This amount is reduced, when appropriate, by the amount sold for CFA francs and increased by the amount of fore ign notes acqu ired in Niger by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs or a fore ign cur- rency account, by exchange for other foreign means of payment brought in, or by repurchase with CFA francs (such repurchase being limited to the equivalent of CFAF 25,000). 305 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward and outward invest- ment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Niger. Such operations require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Nigerien Government and (2) shares that are iden- tical with, or may be substituted for, securities whose issuance or sale in Niger has previously been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the West African Monetary Union, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are maintained also over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign pri- vate persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All the special provisions described in this paragraph apply only to transactions and not to the associated payments or collections. All investments abroad by residents of Niger require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance.5 Foreign direct investments in N ige r6 must be declared to the Minister of Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declara- tion, during which he may request postponement of the project. The fu ll or partial liquidation of either type of investment also requires prior declaration to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Nigerien investments abroad or foreign investments in Niger, must be reported to the Minister of Finance and the BCEAO within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments constitute invest- ments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Lending abroad is subject to prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The 5 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Niger and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Niger. 6 Including those made by companies in Niger that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries in Niger of foreign companies. following are, however, exempt f rom this authorization: ( 1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 2 million for any one borrower, provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate and that the proceeds of the loan are immediately sold on the exchange market or debited to a Foreign Account in Francs. The repayment of a foreign borrowing constituting a direct investment is subject to the same formalities as the liquidation of a direct investment; the repayment of other borrowings requires authorization only to the extent that the bor- rowing itself was subject to prior authorization. Foreign investments in Niger may be granted certain guarantees and facilities under the Investment Code of July 31, 1968 and its amending texts. Existing benefits accorded under the previous Investment Code have been maintained. The new Investment Code provides for privileged or regular treatment. The latter provides assurances, for both new and existing enterprises, with respect to indemnities in the event of expropriation and concerning nondiscrimination between Nigerien nationals and foreign nationals; tax exemptions may be granted for new investments. Privileged treatment is reserved for enterprises deemed to be of special importance to national economic development and falling within specified categories of industrial activities. Such treat- ment may be accorded under two d ifferent regimes, the approval regime and the agreement regime. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Niger. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles con- taining a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) articles of gold up to a combined weight of 500 grams when carried by a traveler. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1980 April 18. Exchange and trade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe (former ly Rhodesia) were lifted. May 8. Circular No. 009 was issued, modifying the regulations on the repatriation and domiciliation of export proceeds. 306 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA (Position on December 31,1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Nigeria is the Nigerian Naira. Nigeria does not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions and pursues an independent and flexible exchange rate policy. The official middle rate for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is determined on the basis of a basket of currencies. Official buying and selling rates are set at 0.25 per cent on either side of the middle rate. The Central Bank of Nigeria also quotes daily rates at which it is prepared to deal in pounds sterling. Rates are also quoted for certain other currencies.1 All exchange dealings are for approved transactions and are on a spot basis only.2 There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. However, nongovernmental transactions are subject to a commission of 0.25 per cent. For approved transactions authorized dealers may deal at market rates, spot or forward, between themselves and with resident and nonresident customers. Authorized dealers may enter freely into contracts with residents of Nigeria for the purchase or sale of any foreign cur- rency for delivery at a fu tu re date, provided that the transaction is one that would be acceptable on a spot basis and relates to a firm commercial contract for the import or export of goods or to freight charges on a specific shipment of goods and is payable in a foreign currency. Forward contracts related to imports must not extend more than six months beyond the expiration date of the import license or beyond the date of import when the license has no expiration date or when no license is required. Forward contracts related to exports may cover any necessary period, provided that payment for the goods is to be received within three months of shipment or within such longer period as may have been authorized. Administration of Control The Federal Ministry of Finance is responsible for basic exchange control policy and, in principle, for approving applications for the following: copyrights; the repatriation of capital and transfer of profits; the raising of external loans, including repayment of such loans; borrowing in Nigeria by companies controlled directly or indirectly f rom outside Nigeria (other than local bank overdrafts to pay for impor ts); the granting of "approved status" to nonresident investments in Nigeria (other than investments in fishing, shipping, and insu rance ); and any dealings in fore ign securities. The Central Bank is the principal administrator of exchange control. Most commercial banks and merchant banks 1 Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, French francs, deutsche ma rk, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, and Swiss francs. 2 While the Central Bank both buys and sells U.S. dollars and pounds sterling, it is prepared to buy only those other currencies for which it quotes daily rates. have been appointed as authorized dealers by the Ministry of Finance and are empowered to deal in foreign currencies and to approve applications in accord- ance with instructions issued by the Central Bank. Any application that does not fa ll within the scope of the authority of these authorized dealers must be submitted to the Central Bank, or, for the transactions mentioned above, to the Ministry of Finance. Certain hotels and rest houses have also been appointed authorized buyers of foreign currency and travelers checks. All export proceeds and other proceeds in foreign currencies (except the proceeds of oil exports) are centralized with the Central Bank. The Central Bank supplies the authorized banks with foreign exchange for approved payments. The administration of trade controls is carried out by the Federal Ministry of Trade and the Import Quota Allocation Committee, comprising officials of the Minis- tries of Trade, Finance, Industry, and Economic Devel- opment, as well as representatives of the Central Bank and the customs administration. Import licenses for petroleum products are issued by the Nigeria National Oil Corporation. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments may be made in na ira to an External Account in Nigeria or in any foreign cur- rency. The proceeds of exports to foreign countries may be received in na ira from an External Account, in any foreign currency which is freely exchangeable for naira, or in any specified currency. Settlements with the Central Bank of West A f r ican States ( for Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, and Sierra Leone are nor- mally made through the West Afr ican Clearing House. Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident accounts, External Accounts, Nonresident Accounts, and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts are maintained for resi- dents of all countries. They may be credited with author- ized payments by residents of Nigeria to residents of foreign countries, with payments f rom other External Accounts, and with proceeds f rom sales of foreign currencies. They may be debited for payments to resi- dents of Nigeria, with payments to other External Accounts, and for purchases of foreign currencies. Funds derived f rom local sources may be deposited in Nonresident Accounts. Such accounts may be credited with proceeds from services rendered locally, provided that the operation of such accounts has been reported to and approval has been obtained from the Central Bank before any foreign transfers are effected. Blocked Accounts are accounts to which are credited 307 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA funds that are blocked by directives given under Sec- tion 27 of the Exchange Control Act. Imports and Import Payments Importers must be registered if they wish to obtain individual import licenses. All imports from Namibia (South West A f r ica) and South Africa are prohibited, and the import of certain specified commodities is banned to protect local industries, to reduce imports of luxury goods, or for health, safety, or religious reasons. Importation of a few other commodities also is pro- hibited unless specific conditions set out in the license authorizing such imports have been complied with. Individual import licenses are required for a number of items from all sources, including raw or manu- factured tobacco, certain types of paper, passenger automobiles with an engine capacity under 2,000 cubic centimeters, certain processed food products, musical instruments and equipment, photographic optical equip- ment, sporting equipment not manufac tured locally, and various alcoholic beverages. Imports which are neither prohibited nor subject to specific licensing may be imported under open general license f rom any country other than Namibia and South A f r ica. Some imports are effected exclusively by an autonomous public agency, the Nigeria National Supply Company, Ltd. For most import transactions valued at over N 10,000, the import documents must include a clean report of findings issued by the General Superintendence Company Limited of Geneva which inspects the goods and verifies the price, quality, and quan t i ty in the country of origin or ship- ment. Industrial raw materials and spare parts are exempt from this requirement. Authorized dealers may provide foreign exchange for authorized imports at sight of shipping documents or in accordance with such credit terms as may be arranged between importer and exporter (subject to the approval of the Central Bank for the private sector or the Ministry of Finance for the public sector). Import payments exceeding N 100,000 or import contracts exceeding M 100,000 and not covered by a letter of credit must be registered with the Central Bank and the Ministry of Trade, respectively. Payment in advance of shipment requires the approval of the Central Bank, except where prepayment is made against a letter of credit. For sight transactions, the importer must present the customs bill of entry within 90 days after the allocation of foreign exchange. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of other countries are subject to individual approval; for some categories of invisibles this is granted by authorized dealers, either up to specified limits or up to the amount of the bill or invoice. Applications for payments that cannot be approved by authorized dealers and are not among those 308 (such as profits and dividends) 3 that require approval by the Ministry of Finance are forwarded to the Central Bank for decision. All insurance other than that for which facilities do not exist in Nigeria must be taken out with a company in Nigeria and all insurance com- panies operating in the country must reinsure with the National Insurance Corporation. Residents are entitled to a basic tourist travel allow- ance of N 1,000 a person a year (N 500 a year for children under 16 yea r s ). There is also a separate allowance for pilgrimages. Foreign exchange for these purposes may be sold to residents by authorized dealers. In addition, travel agents and shipping and airline companies in Nigeria may sell transportation tickets for any destination against payment in Nigerian currency. The cost of services rendered by travel agents in respect of hotel accommodation, meals en route, etc., must be covered from the basic travel allowance. Business travel allowances are limited to N 80 a day, up to 14 days a trip, for a maximum of 56 days in a year, with no restriction on the number of trips that may be taken. Exchange allocations are available for medical care up to N 500 for consultation and up to N 2,000 for sur- gery, but additional amounts are provided when sup- porting evidence is submitted. Foreign exchange is granted for all bona fide expenses for education beyond the secondary level. Foreign exchange allowances for elementary and secondary school education abroad are not granted except in special cases such as those of handicapped children for whom educational facilities are not available locally. Exchange applications for most nontourist travel must be submitted to the Central Bank. Remittances by residents for gift purposes are limited to N 150 a year for individuals and N 500 for charitable organizations. Foreign nationals residing in Nigeria may purchase annually foreign currency up to 50 per cent of their gross annual taxable income for all personal remittances (including insurance, education, medical expenses, provident f u nd contributions, sundry payments, and the basic travel allowance); applications in excess of this limit are examined on their merits by the Central Bank. When tak ing overseas leave, foreign nationals may also convert up to three months' pay into foreign exchange. 3 Profits and dividend payments remitted abroad and disbursed locally may not exceed 30 per cent of a company's capital stock. New profits and dividends may be remitted as soon as they are declared, provided that, in the case of airline and shipping companies, a tax at the rate of 10 per cent is paid. The tax is held on account until corporate tax re turns are assessed and filed. Remittances of technical fees, management fees, and royalties are permitted where it can be shown that these are related to the import of modern technology. Payments for technical and management fees requ i re approval by the Ministry of Finance. A fixed fee is normally permitted for the first five years a f ter the establishment of a new company, and there- after a percentage of net profit not exceeding 3 per cent. Each appli- cation is treated on its merits within these broad guidelines. Similar policies are applicable to other payments for services, such as those relating to copyrights and trademarks. Foreign consultants perform ing professional services in Nigeria are allowed to remit to their associates abroad up to 30 per cent of the amount contracted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Residents are permitted to take out the equivalent of their basic travel allowance in foreign currency notes and travelers checks; nonresident visitors may take out any foreign currency notes and travelers checks that were declared upon entry, minus the amount converted locally into Nigerian currency. Travelers may take out N 50 in domestic notes and coin; all other export of Nigerian currency notes and coin is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Namibia and South A f r ica are prohibited. Exports of beans, cassava, flour, groundnut oil, maize, milk, palm oil, rice, sugar, timber, and previously imported food items are prohibited, as are exports of explosives, other than industrial explosives. Exports of cattle and groundnuts have been suspended. Individual export licenses are required for cigarettes and tobacco, hides and skins, columbite, tantalite, unrefined gold, petroleum products, goods made wholly or partly of imported components, and products subject to control by the Marketing Boards (cocoa, cotton, cottonseed, benniseed, groundnuts, groundnut oil, palm kernel oil, and palm kerne ls). The sale abroad of all export crops purchased by the Marketing Boards is the responsibility of each Marketing Board under the general guidance of the Export Commodity Coordinating Council. The export of certain goods (African antiques or works of art and objects that are being used or have been used in African ceremonies) is prohibited, except under pre- scribed conditions. Exports of petroleum and petroleum products are subject to special arrangements. All other goods may be exported without a license. Export proceeds must be surrendered, through a commercial bank, to the Central Bank within three months of shipment. Exports of petroleum and petro- leum products, however, are exempt from the surrender requirements. For all exports, the exporter is required to submit an exchange control declaration at the time of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer, for surrender to the Central Bank. Persons entering Nigeria may freely bring in foreign banknotes. Travelers may bring in N 50 in domestic currency; all other import of Nigerian currency notes and coin is prohibited. Capital Except for the purpose of financing imports or exports, permission is required from the Ministry of Finance for any individual, firm, company, or branch resident in Nigeria to borrow abroad. In addition, official agencies and state-controlled corporations require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance for any foreign borrowing. The contracting of suppliers' credit abroad by state-controlled corporations or agencies also is subject to approval by the Ministry of Finance. The permission of the Ministry of Finance is required for NIGERIA borrowing in Nigeria ( 1) by any nonresident individual or company and (2) by any company registered in Nigeria (other than a b a n k) which is controlled directly or indirectly from outside Nigeria. However, to enable entities mentioned under ( 2) to meet temporary short- ages of funds, licensed banks in Nigeria may grant loans or overdrafts for periods not exceeding 14 days, or may increase the amount of any advance or over- draft by the amount of loan interest or bank charges payable thereon. General permission is also given for any loan, bank overdraf t, or other credit facility to be arranged to finance Nigerian imports or exports of goods. Residents of Nigeria may not deal in foreign currency securities or buy from or sell to nonresidents of Nigeria any security payable in naira without the permission of the Ministry of Finance. The capital proceeds of securi- ties registered in Nigeria and owned by nonresidents may be collected and negotiated through authorized dealers, provided that the prior permission of the Ministry of Finance is obtained. Exchange for the t rans fer of certain assets by emi- grants or repatriates is granted on final departure from the country, but the transfer of the proceeds of assets realized in order to comply with the Nigerian Enter- prises Promotion Decrees of 1972 and 1977 may take place upon receipt. Ceilings for foreign capital participation in the equity capital of enterprises in various sectors of the economy have been set by the Indigenization Decree of 1974, as amended in June 1976 and Janua ry 1977. Nonresidents intending to make direct investments in Nigeria may apply to the Ministry of Finance ^for "approved status," the granting of which means that sympathetic considera- tion will be given to fu tu re requests to repatriate the capital. The granting of "approved status" is not appli- cable to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange in Nigeria unless this forms an integral part of the approved investment project. Furthermore, this status is not normally granted when internally generated funds f rom profits, dividends, rents, or bank credit or locally raised loans are invested in local enterprises. With minor exceptions, foreign-owned companies and commercial banks operating in Nigeria must be incorporated in Nigeria. The repatriation of foreign capital requires approval from the Ministry of Finance. Gold With permission of the Federal Ministry of Finance, residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Nigeria for numismatic purposes. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized indus tr ial users are not allowed, without special per- mission, to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewelry or coin, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry require specific licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports 309 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and industrial users. Furthermore, the import of U.K. gold coin requires a license f rom the Commissioner of Customs and Excise, and the import of other gold coin requires a specific import license. Imports of gold coin and gold and silver bullion are free of duty when made by the Central Bank; otherwise, such imports are subject to customs duty at 100 per cent ad valorem. Changes during 1980 January 1. The following changes were introduced in connection with the 1980 budge t: ( 1) the customs duties on electric fans, galvanized flat sheets, lampshades, brass bed ornaments, and napk ins were raised; (2) the customs duties on motors for electric fans, paper bags in which cement is packed, and selected spare parts of the machinery used by cement factories were lowered; ( 3) with effect from April 1 the advance import deposit requirement would be abolished; (4) industrial raw materials and spare parts were exempted f rom the preshipment inspection requirement. March 20. Licenses were not required for impor t ing components of goods for which import licenses were required, provided that these were imported under an approved user license. March 31. The following items were deleted f rom the list of goods subject to the import license require- ment du r ing the fiscal year 1980: stockfish; bicycle tires and tubes of certain sizes; cigars and cheroots; insulated electric wire; tomato puree and tomato paste; linoleum of all k inds in rolls; salted or dried meat; salted, dried, or smoked fish; ceramic sinks; water basins; various san i tary fixtures; plastic pipes; buckwheat, millet, canary seed, gra in sorghum, and other cereals; indus- trial protective glasses and apparel; and louvered window frames. Simultaneously, the following items were added to the l is t: concentrated malt extracts; galvanized or coated flat sheets; sporting equ ipment not manu fac tu red locally ( foo tba ll boots, spiked shoes, boxing boots, cycling shoes, hockey boots, basketball boots, golf shoes, football jerseys, and track s u i t s ); and asbestos flat sheets. April 1. The exchange allowance for tourist travel was raised f rom N 500 a year to N 1,000 a year for adults and f rom N 250 a year to N 500 a year for children (under 16 years). April 18. Exchange and trade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe (former ly Rhodesia) were lifted. 310 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Norway is the Norwegian Krone. The external value of the krone is pegged to a cur- rency index number reflecting the average change in the exchange rates of the 12 currencies most important to Norway's external trade and payments. The exchange rate is managed so as to allow only l im i ted fluctuations around the benchmark for the effective value. The weights of the index are proportional to Norway's imports from and exports to each of the countries whose currencies are included. However, the weight of the U.S. dollar is adjusted to take account of the fact that a great part of the exports and imports of shipping services and petroleum products are dollar based. The exchange rate of the krone for the U.S. dollar, the principal intervention currency, is fixed daily on the basis of the average weighted var ia t ions in quotations for the U.S. dollar in relation to the other currencies in the basket. On December 31, 1980 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were NK r5 .1690 and NKr 5.1910, respectively, per US$1. Forward prem- iums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Authorized banks' forward transactions with nonbank residents must have a commercial basis. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Norway forma l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from May 11, 1967. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the M in is try of Commerce and Shipping1 in cooperation with the Bank of Norway. Authority to approve most current pay- ments has been delegated to authorized banks. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the M in is try of Commerce and Shipping and, in certain cases, by the M in is try of Ag r icu l tu re or the M in is try of Fisheries. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th all countries may be made in any convertible currency, including Norwegian kroner on Convertible Krone Accounts (see section on Nonresi- dent Accounts, below). Nonresident Accounts The ma in type of nonresident account is the Con- vertible Krone Account. Such accounts may be held by residents of all countries. They may be credited with authorized payments f rom any coun try, with transfers from other Convertible Krone Accounts, and with proceeds from the sale in Norway of convertible cur- 1 With effect from J anu a ry 1, 1981 this responsibility was t ran s fe r red to the M in is try of Finance and Customs. rencies. They may be debited for authorized payments f rom any country to residents of Norway, for transfers to other Convertible Krone Accounts, and for purchases in Norway of any foreign currency. Authorized banks are permitted to open foreign exchange accounts for nonresidents, subject to the arrangements for banks' borrow ing abroad (see section on Capital, be low ) .2 Imports and Import Payments Most commodities do not require an import license. Certain textiles and garments or ig ina t ing in countries ou ts ide the EC and the EFTA are subject to global quotas. Cer ta in other textiles and garments are sub- ject to import licensing for surveillance purposes. There is a restricted list of imports of a limited number of indus tr ial goods; however, many of the goods on this list are licensed automatically. With these exceptions, indu s t r ial goods may be impor ted freely upon presen- ta t ion of the original invoice. Imports of cer ta in agricultural goods are restricted, irrespective of or ig in. A global quota list contains a few quotas for agr icu l tural products for which imports are perm i t ted up to fixed limits; these quotas apply to all countries. New and secondhand ships other than ships that are 20 years old or older, and certain cate- gories of fishing vessels, may be imported freely,3 but special pe rm iss ion is required in order to ensure com- p l iance w i th the regulations regard ing payments in advance of delivery. The import of radio equipment and radio control equ ipment is subject to approval by the D irec tora te of Telecommunications. The import of a small n um b er of commodities is prohibited for health and s im i lar reasons, and certain goods (some grains, alcoholic beverages, fishing gear of textile materials, pharmaceu t ical products, and d rug s) are imported by government monopolies. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts to any country for all current invisibles, i n c l u d i ng income f rom capital and contractual amor- t iza t ion, may be made freely. The au thor ized banks, however, require ver if ica t ion if the payment exceeds the equ iva lent of NKr 2,000. The basic exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad is the equivalent of NKr 10,000 a trip for each person. For business travel, the banks may sell reason- able amounts. Each person leaving Norway may take w i th him up to NKr 2,000 in Norwegian banknotes, in denom ina t ions not exceeding NKr 100. Nonresidents 2 Residents also may open fo re ign exchange accounts. The customer must have both income and expend i tu re in foreign currencies. Holdings on these accounts must not exceed the amount requ ired to cover ob l iga t ions due in the immed ia te f u t u r e. 3 Au tom a t ic au tho r iza t ion is not g ran ted for imports f rom A lban ia, Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea, Macao, Mongolia, and Viet Nam. 311 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY leaving Norway may, in addition, export any foreign banknotes brought into the country by them. Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported freely to any country against a declaration or a license. Exports subject to regulation are listed and require export licenses. Exports valued at not more than NKr 2,000 to any country are exempt from declaration or export license; for fish and fish products this limit is NKr 500. If payment is not received within 12 months of delivery, a license from the Ministry of Commerce and Shipping is required. In principle, all exchange from exports must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles In principle, receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered. A person entering Norway may bring in any amount in Norwegian currency, in denominations not exceeding NKr 100, and in other means of payment. Capital Inward transfers of capital and investments in Nor- way by nonresidents must be approved by the Bank of Norway. Outward transfers of capital require individual licenses; the granting of these licenses depends on the merits of the case. Licenses for outward transfers of proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments made in Norway by nonresidents are granted freely, and nonresident capital may be repatriated automatically. Payments for contractual amortization are also per- mitted freely. Most transactions in securities involving nonresident interests are subject to approval. Non- residents are allowed to purchase shares and bearer bonds in Norwegian banking and industrial firms up to a limit of NKr 1 million. Personal capital transfers, such as transfers relating to family loans, gifts, inheritances, legacies, dowries, emigrants' assets, savings of nonresident workers, and amounts in settlement of immigrants' debts, may be made freely. In general, resident-owned capital assets abroad, other than securities, real estate, and other authorized investments, have to be surrendered. Oil companies have general permission to hold their foreign currency assets as bank deposits and other short-term instru- ments with maturity up to 12 months, and may, after special permission f rom the Bank of Norway, hold foreign currency assets with ma tur i ty longer than 12 months. Norwegian shipowners, insurance companies, and brokers may open accounts of 30 days' maturity with foreign banks; upon special permission from the Bank of Norway, other Norwegian firms may also hold such accounts. On special application, permission may be given by the Bank to hold bank accounts with maturities of up to 12 months, and foreign bonds quoted on recognized stock exchanges. Applications for capital transfers to make direct 312 investments abroad are treated liberally but portfolio investment abroad is approved only exceptionally. Resident-owned foreign securities quoted on a recog- nized stock exchange, with the exception of securities issued by foreign investment companies or mutual funds, are freely negotiable between residents, provided that the securities originally were acquired by a resident before October 1, 1966, or that they were bought with the proceeds of foreign securities acquired before that date. Residents may upon application transfer capital abroad to purchase, for recreational purposes, real estate valued at up to NKr 250,000 a family; such purchases by business firms, staff associations, etc., are approved for higher amounts. There are limits on authorized banks' borrowing abroad. Authorized banks have to balance their com- bined spot and forward positions ^fore ign currency at the end of the day within narrow margins varying between banks according to the size of their total assets. Banks are permitted to hold positions in any currency that is covered in other currencies. A license from the Ministry of Finance and Customs is required to raise bond loans in foreign countries. Borrowing abroad in connection with imports of ships must be approved by the Ministry of Commerce and Shipping. All other inward transfers of capital by non- bank residents require approval by the Bank of Norway. Incurring or providing guarantee obligations abroad also requires approval by the Bank of Norway. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form. No customs duties or other charges or fees are payable on imports or exports of gold bullion and gold coin not contained in jewelry. Domestic sales of gold bullion and gold coin are subject to the regular value-added tax at a rate of 20 per cent. Changes during 1980 March 26. With effect from April 1 authorized banks were required to balance their total positions in foreign exchange at the end of the day within margins ranging f rom plus or minus NKr 75 million to plus or minus NKr 5 million, depending upon the size of a bank's total assets. May 5. The oil companies were given general per- mission to hold their foreign currency assets as bank deposits and other short-term instruments with maturity up to 12 months and may, after special permission from the Bank of Norway, hold foreign currency assets with ma tur i ty longer than 12 months. May 12. The basic exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad was raised from the equivalent of NKr 5,000 to NKr 10,000 a trip for each person. The amount in Norwegian banknotes that each person leaving Norway may carry was raised from NKr 800 to NKr 2,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OMAN (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Oman is the Rial Omani, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at RO 1 = US$2.89524. Oman avails itself of wider margins. The Central Bank of Oman maintains fixed buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar; on Decem- ber 31, 1980 these rates were RO 1 = US$2.89813 and RO 1 = US$2.89235, respectively. The commercial banks' rates for other currencies are based on market rates in London. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Oman informed the Fund on June 19, 1974 that it forma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Central Bank, but there is no exchange control legislation in Oman. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are pro- h ib i ted, and the use of their currencies is also prohibited. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited for reasons of health, security, or public policy. Imports of Maria Theresa dollars also are prohibited. Import licenses are not required, and exchange for payments abroad may be obtained freely. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South A f r ica are prohibited, and exports or re-exports of live animals and foods tu f fs may be prohibited in times of shortage in Oman. All other commodities may be exported freely. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or sur- rendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regard- less of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted. Payments must not, however, be made to or be received f rom Israel or South Afr ica. Travelers may bring in or take out any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents, except that no payments may be made to or received from Israel or South Africa. Investment in business firms in Oman by foreign physical or juridical persons requires prior approval. Such investment is regulated by a foreign investment law enacted in 1973, as amended in Janua ry 1977 and August 1978, and by a law for the Organization and Encouragement of Indus- try, which came into effect on January 15, 1979. Gold The monetary authorities and all other residents and nonresidents, inc lud ing private persons, may, without license, purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form at home or abroad. They may also import and export gold in any fo rm without a license and without pay- ment of any customs duties or tax. Transactions involv- ing Israel and South Afr ica are prohibited. Changes during 1980 March 1. A duty of 10 per cent was imposed on imports of ice cream, and one of 20 per cent was imposed on imports of emulsion and enamel paints. April 11. Exchange and trade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe (formerly Rhodesia) were lifted. October 1. The import of photographic film materials and videotapes by road, whether for commercial or private use, was banned. 313 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Pakistan is the Pakistan Rupee, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at PRs 9.90 = US$1. The State Bank of Pakistan (the central bank) confines its buying and selling rates within 2.25 per cent of this rate. On December 31, 1980 the State Bank's buying and selling rates for transac- tions with authorized dealers were PRs 9.9000 and PRs 9.9156, respectively, per US$1. All transactions with the public in foreign exchange must be conducted through authorized dealers and money changers, whose dealings must be effected at rates authorized by the State Bank. In calculating spot exchange rates for other currencies, a margin of 0.0625 per cent is provided on either side of the mean rate based on the previous day's closing buying and selling rates for the currency con- cerned in the New York market. Authorized dealers in Pakistan are permitted to cover their requirements of specified currencies in foreign exchange markets abroad. They may also cover their permitted transactions in specified currencies against U.S. dollars or Pakistan rupees, either spot or forward for a limited period, with their agents in the countries concerned. In addition, they offer fo rwa rd cover in Asian monetary units for exports and imports effected under the Asian Clearing Union arrangement, with the State Bank standing ready to cover forward contracts reported by authorized dealers. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases and sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control The State Bank has delegated authority to a number of banks and financial institutions to deal in all foreign currencies, to supervise surrender requirements, and to sell exchange for specified purposes within limits pre- scribed by the State Bank. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports is responsible for the issue of licenses and permits, as well as the implementation of import and export policies. Certain foreign trade trans- actions are conducted through various state trading agencies, such as the Trading Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd. (TCP ), the Cotton Export Corporation, Ltd. (CECP), and the Rice Export Corporation, Ltd. (RECP). Prescription of Currency Exchange receipts and payments abroad must be effected through an authorized foreign exchange dealer, in principle, in any convertible currency or in Pakistan rupees from or to nonresident rupee bank accounts. Certain settlements with specified countries are chan- neled through special accounts. Letters of credit for imports from all other countries must be established in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, the domestic currency 314 of the beneficiary, or in the currency of the country of origin or shipment. No exchange control is exercised over transactions with Afghanistan, and settlements are made in Pakistan rupees or in Afghan currency. Trade transactions under "barter" agreements are settled through special accounts in inconvertible currencies. Trade in specified commod- ities with Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Poland, Sweden, and the U.S.S.R. is settled through special nonconvertible accounts. The special accounts with the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Sweden, and the U.S.S.R. are maintained in nonconvertible U.S. dollars, and the special account with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea is denominated in deutsche mark. Certain trade transactions with the German Democratic Republic are effected through special clearing accounts maintained in U.S. dollars. Payments to and f rom Iran and Turkey relating to visible trade (excluding border trade, Iranian oil, and defense materials) are settled through clearing accounts maintained by the respective central banks in U.S. dol- lars. Payments to, and receipts f rom, member countries of the Asian Clearing Union other than Iran (i.e., Bangladesh, Bu rma, India, Nepal, and Sri Lanka) in respect of current transactions (other than those relat- ing to petroleum, na tural gas, and their products) may be effected in Asian Monetary Units through the Asian Clearing Union or in the currency of one of the mem- ber countries involved in such transactions. Payments between Pakistan and Israel and South Africa are suspended. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of individuals, firms, or companies resi- dent in countries outside Pakistan are designated as non- resident accounts.1 Authorized banks are permitted to open nonresident accounts for nonbank nonresidents without the prior approval of the State Bank where the accounts are to be opened with funds received from abroad through bank ing channels or with rupee funds that have been accepted for remittance abroad. Debits and credits to nonresident accounts for specified pur- poses may be made by authorized banks without the prior approval of the State Bank. Accounts of residents of India, other than the accounts of the Indian Embassy and its personnel, are blocked. Pakistani nationals residing abroad and foreign nationals, whether resident abroad or in Pakistan, may open foreign currency accounts with banks in Pakistan 1 D ifferent rules apply to nonresident rupee accounts of individuals, firms, or companies, on the one hand, and to nonresident rupee accounts of banks, on the other hand. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution without prior approval of the exchange control authori- ties. There are no restrictions on the currencies in which the accounts may be denominated; credit balances may be transferred abroad, and interest on such accounts is exempt from income tax. A deposit holder wishing to make payments in Pakistan must first convert the foreign exchange drawn f rom his account into Pakistan rupees. If a Pakistani national holding such an account returns to Pakistan, he may retain the account unless his stay exceeds six months; thereafter, the account must be closed and the exchange surrendered. Banks in Pakistan receiving such deposits must sell the foreign exchange to the State Bank. Imports and Import Payments Permitted imports are classified into two lists: a free list and a tied list. Items on the tied list may be procured only from tied sources under credits, barter trade, loans, or the U.S. P.L. 480 program. Items not on either list are effectively prohibited for import except under certain circumstances by export industries, as mentioned below. All imports require licenses, except goods imported by the Central Government for defense or other purposes, goods in transit, personal baggage, certain imports over the land routes from Afghan is tan and Iran, and certain other items permitted under a Ministry of Commerce Notification. Licenses for all items on the f ree and tied lists are issued on the basis of notification by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports.2 Generally, licenses remain valid for 12 months but in cases where machinery is specifically manufac tured, the validity period can be extended up to 24 months. Licenses for imports valued at PRs 500 or less incur no fee, but licenses above that amount are subject to a fee of 2 per cent of the value of the license, payable at the time of issue. The basic two-list import regime is subject to certain supplementary qualifications, the most important of which are as follows: ( 1) Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited, as are imports of goods originat- ing in these countries but shipped from third countries. (2) In order to facilitate barter trading and utilization of aid and to secure economies through bulk imports, the import of specified items is restricted to the TCP, unless the items are procured with U.S. aid. (3) The import of certain other items is restricted to the public sector or to industrial consumers. (4) In conformity with Regional Cooperation for Development arrange- ments between Iran, Pakistan, and Turkey governing procurements for j o i nt industrial ventures, the import of nine items, inc lud ing six chemical items, is restricted to procurement from Turkey. Also, dates may be imported only f rom Iraq. (5) Special provisions exist for the 2 At present no licensing restrictions are applied to permitted imports by the pr iva te sector of all raw materials (except for yarn and artificial fiber), all capital goods, and some consumer goods. For other per- m i t ted imports of consumer goods, licensing ceilings are applied equivalent to 125 per cent of the higher of (1) the value licensed in 1978/79 or (2) the average value licensed du r ing the three years end- ing June 30, 1980. PAKISTAN import by export industries of items on the tied list from nontied sources and items not on either import list. (6) Private sector importers, other than those importing goods for personal use, who apply for import licenses for goods valued at PRs 20,000 or more, must be mem- bers of approved trade organizations. (7) Licenses for permissible imports of industrial plant and equipment are restricted to a c. & f. value of PRs 10 million, and procurement of plant and equipment of a higher value is effected by the financing institutions, with the approval of the Ministry of Industry. Except for imports of books, periodicals, and news- papers, irrevocable letters of credit must be opened for all commercial imports. In principle, such letters of credit have to be opened within 60 days a f ter registration of the license with the State Bank for private and public sector imports. For imports under tied loans or credits, which require the contract to be approved by the Eco- nomic A f fa i rs Division or another specified agency, licenses for both private and public sector imports remain valid for the opening of a letter of credit for 30 days af ter final approval of the contract. Oil com- panies and refineries are free to open letters of credit for the import of crude oil and petroleum products w i th in the validity period of the underlying license. Remit- tances are not normally permitted before shipping docu- ments are received, but in special cases, e.g., machinery and other capital goods for which deposits have to be paid to foreign manufac turers, the State Bank may authorize advance payments for a part of the value of the goods. No payments are permitted for goods or ig ina t ing in or consigned from Israel or South A f r ica. With specified exceptions,3 the State Bank requires banks to take mini- mum margins against import letters of credit at the following rates: 10 per cent for edible oils and cotton- seeds for the production of hydrogenated vegetable fat (vanaspa t i ); 25 per cent for milk and cream ( inc lud ing baby f o o d ), butter, industrial materials other than those specified elsewhere, unserviceable ships for scrapping, and synthetic fibers; and 35 per cent for spices, elec- trical bulbs, unexposed films, synthetic yarn, and all items not listed above. Imports by the TCP are exempt from the marg in requirements on import letters of credit. However, domestic letters of credit opened in favor of 3 I.e., industrial or agr icu l tural machinery as well as their com- ponents and par ts, construction and engineering equ ipmen t, raw mate- rials licensed under the Export Pe r fo rmance (Raw Material Replenish- m e n t) Scheme, rock phosphate and kieselguhr for manu fac tu r ing fertilizers, raw ma ter ia ls for m anu f a c tu r e rs of mach inery and electrical equ ipmen t, chemicals and tinplate for the ghee indu s t ry, pesticides, cement, c rude oil and petroleum products, trucks and bus chassis (completely knocked d ow n ), jeeps (completely knocked d ow n ), raw materials for the m anu f a c tu re of gearboxes and rear axles for trucks and bus chassis and jeeps by the manu fac tu re rs only, raw materials imported by the cycle indus t ry, raw ju te, j u te bags, secondhand cloth- ing, newspr int for the newspaper indu s t ry and the Koran, books, magazines, jou rna ls and periodicals, electromedical equ ipment not produced locally, a r t i f ic ial limbs, hea r ing aids and parts thereof, medicinal herbs, c rude d rugs, medicines, pharmaceutical raw materials, surgical in s t rumen t s, appara tus, and appliances not m anu f a c tu r ed locally, asthma inhalers, vegetable seeds, tea, edible oil, items under the tied list, and all goods f rom barter sources imported by the TCP. 315 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN the TCP in relation to the import of any commodities through the TCP (except bleaching powder and imports under the Raw Material Replenishment Scheme) are subject to the same minimum margin requirements as are prescribed for import letters of credit for these com- modities. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled by the State Bank and in many cases require its prior approval. No remittances are permitted to Israel or South A f r ica. Authorized dealers may sell exchange or make remit- tances in accordance with the regulations. Certain remit- tances of a personal na ture are subject to annual quotas, but applications in excess of the quotas may be approved at the discretion of the State Bank. Remittances by Pakistani nationals to their families abroad require special authorization. Payments for invisibles connected with imports are generally given the same treatment as that accorded to the underlying trade transaction. Except w i th respect to certain aid shipments, transport insurance must be taken out with insurance companies in Pakistan. Commissions, brokerage, or other trade charges paid to foreign import- ers or agents by Pak is tani exporters are generally limited to a max imum of 5 per cent to the invoice value, except for cotton, rice, and cement, for which separate regula- tions apply. The remittance of dividends declared out of current profits is allowed freely to foreign shareholders where the investment was made with the Government's approval. Profits of branches of foreign companies may be remitted freely to their head offices. The same applies to head office expenses charged to a branch's profit and loss account and accepted for tax purposes by the Pakistani income tax authorities. On an administrative basis, the State Bank approves an exchange allocation of US$500 a person a tr ip for private travel; this alloca- tion can be taken up once every two years. Additional exchange for business travel, medical treatment, educa- tion, and sponsored cultural trips may be granted on an individual basis. There are also specific allowances for pilgrims' travel to Saudi Arabia and other Middle East- ern countries. Exporters of goods or services with annual export earnings in excess of PRs 2.5 million are entitled to a renewable one-year blanket permission for the purchase of travel tickets and travel exchange of US$120 a day up to US$3,600 for each business trip. Foreigners leaving Pakistan within six months from the date of their arrival in Pakistan may take out foreign currency not exceeding the amounts they brought in and PRs 100 a person in Pakistan currency notes. Residents leaving for Afghan is tan may take out any amount of Afghan currency. Nationals work ing abroad who visit Pakistan may retain for three months the foreign exchange they brought in. When leaving Pakistan, within three months from the date of arrival, they may take with them the unspent balance of foreign exchange 316 (including foreign currency notes up to the equivalent of US$50 a person). Larger amounts of foreign cur- rency notes can be taken out if the currency notes were declared on entry. Nationals whose stay in Pakistan exceeds three months may take out foreign exchange, including foreign currency notes up to a value of US$50 a person, not exceeding US$500 a family, provided these amounts were deposited by them with an authorized dealer immediately on arrival in Pakistan. Residents traveling to other foreign destinations may take out PRs 100 a person in Pakistan currency and any amount in foreign currency notes and travelers checks sold by authorized banks under permission issued by the State Bank. Foreigners may make fam i ly remittances of up to US$500 a mon th f rom their net income in Pakistan. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of specified commodities to any destination and all exports to Israel and South A f r ica are pro- hibited.4 Exports of most other commodities are allowed freely. However, exports of certain specified items are subject to m in imum export prices (such as sports goods, surgical equipment, and bunker o i l ), export quotas (such as maize, onions, gram, and split g r am ), or quality con- trols (such as batteries, electric bulbs and appliances, and oil cake s ). The CECP has a monopoly over exports of cotton although private exporters may act as its agents; rice is exported through the RECP, and cement through the State Cement Corporation. Some chemicals may be exported only by the TCP. The State Bank requires a declaration by the exporter that payment will be received in accordance with the prescribed method and within the prescribed period of time except for goods manu fac tu red in the export proc- essing zones. The authorized dealer certifies the export form for shipment. Exporters are obliged to collect and surrender export proceeds within four months of ship- ment, although the State Bank may allow an extension of this period. Exporters may, however, with the prior approval by the State Bank, grant deferred payment terms. The surrender of A fghan currency accruing f rom exports to A fghan is tan is not required. Export financing at concessional rates is provided for all exports (except raw cotton, wool, rice, hides and skins, and leather wet b lue) based on confirmed irre- vocable letters of credit or firm export orders on a case- by-case basis under Part I of the Export Finance Scheme, or, alternatively, on the basis of the previous year's export performance of the exporter as advance limit on a revolving basis under Part II of the scheme. Fiscal rebates are paid on the f.o.b. value of cotton textile exports and engineering goods as follows: yarn (7.5 per c e n t ), grey cloth (10 per cen t ), and finished cloth, made-up textiles (including canvas foo twea r ), 4 Prohibited exports include beef, mu t ton, grains, flour, dairy prod- ucts, edible oils, blood meal, meat meal, corn gluten meal, sesame oil cake, certain citrus f r u i ts (unless g raded ), certain hides and skins, and used copper and brass utensils. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution engineering goods, acetate yarn, cutlery, surgical instru- ments, and sports goods (12.5 per cent).5 The rate of income tax and corporate profit tax is reduced to 45 per cent of normal rates on all income and profits derived from exports, except raw cotton and goods that may be specified from time to time by the Central Board of Revenue. Industrial units established under the Pay-As-You-Earn Scheme are permitted to utilize up to 50 per cent of the f.o.b. value of exports for the servicing of suppliers' credit on imports of plant and machinery. Export duties are levied on staple cotton, oil cakes, molasses, and semitanned hides and skins. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of A fgh an currency, which may be retained, incoming foreign exchange derived f rom invisibles must be surrendered within three months. Travelers may bring in PRs 100 in Pakistan currency notes a person and Rs 5 in coin that is legal tender in India. There is no limitation on the import of other currency notes and coin. Capital Investments in Pakistan by nonresidents are subject to approval. In order to encourage industrial develop- ment in Pakistan, the Government follows a liberal policy toward foreign entrepreneurs, who, with the approval of the Government, may start any industry in the private sector without conditions being laid down regarding the participation of local capital. It is expected, however, that local rupee expenditure will ordinarily be met from local equity capital. Repatriation facilities are as follows: (1) Foreign capital invested in approved industries established a f ter September 1, 1954 may be repatriated at any time to the extent of the original investment, and current profits may be transferred without restriction to the country of origin of the capital. (2) Profits reinvested in approved industrial projects with the sanction of the Government may be treated as investment for the pur- pose of subsequent repatriation. ( 3) Appreciation of any capital investment under (1) and (2) may also be treated as investment for the purpose of subsequent repatriation. These repatriation facilities do not apply to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange, unless the purchase is an integral part of an approved investment project, or to capital invested in Pakistan before Septem- ber 1, 1954. Guarantees provide for just and fa ir com- pensation in the currency of the country of origin of the investment in the event of nationalization of any project. Foreign nationals in Pakistan or abroad may register their investments in National Prize Bonds issued by the Government of Pakistan; the principal and the prize winnings may then be repatriated at any time. 5 Cu t lery, surgical instruments, and sports goods became eligible for the rebates on January 1, 1981. PAKISTAN Transfers of capital abroad by resident nationals are, in general, not permitted; the purchase of foreign securi- ties by Pakistani residents requires approval by the State Bank and is seldom permitted. Detailed rules govern the transfer of capital by persons emigrating or retiring f rom Pakistan, depending upon the nationality of the person concerned and the country to which the transfer is to be made. Foreign nationals temporarily residing in Pakistan are treated as nonresidents for purposes of transfer of securities. General permission has been given in connection with the issue, sale, or t rans fer of Pakistan securities, excluding shares of public or private limited companies, in favor of nonresidents, provided that the securities are registered at the address in Pakistan of the purchaser and investment is made on the basis of non- repatriation of capital and return. Pakistan securities held by nonresidents may be transferred to other non- residents against payment abroad, with the same facil- ities in respect of remittance of capital and earnings as those obtained by the transferor. A general permission has also been issued allowing foreign nationals tempo- rarily resident in Pakistan to make investments in units of the National Investment Trust, subject to certain stipulations. Exports of securities are subject to approval. Pro- ceeds accruing f rom the liquidation of nonresident cap- ital assets that are not covered by repatriation arrange- ments must be credited to blocked accounts. Subject to approval by the State Bank, balances on blocked accounts may be invested in approved government secu- rities payable in Pakistan rupees or placed as time deposit with banks. A general permission allows Pakistani nationals resi- dent abroad to acquire securities in Pakistan by remit- tance of foreign exchange or to the debit of their non- resident accounts in Pakistan; dividends or interest thereon, as well as the proceeds upon sale, must be credited to nonresident accounts and cannot normally be transferred abroad. Pakistani nationals require the prior approval of the State Bank to sell movable or immovable assets held abroad, and the liquidation pro- ceeds must be repatriated to Pakistan through normal bank ing channels. Gold The export and import of gold are prohibited unless authorized by the State Bank. Such permission is nor- mally not granted. Banks incorporated in Pakistan are not permitted to engage in purchases or sales of bullion whether in or outside Pakistan. Changes during 1980 During 1980 the interest rates on large foreign cur- rency deposits (of at least US$100,000) were changed on 14 occasions. On December 31, 1980 the rates quoted ranged f rom 16.50 to 18.50 per cent per annum, compared with a range of 14.35 to 14.50 per cent per annum quoted on January 1, 1980. 317 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN The minimum marg in requirements for the opening of letters of credit for the import of various items were adjusted frequently during 1980. Only the principal changes (including the addition or deletion of require- ments for any i tem) are listed below. January 14. The validity of the 1977 commodity exchange agreement with Czechoslovakia was fu r ther extended until June 30, 1980 for shipments in respect of letters of credit established up to December 31, 1979 (FE Circular No. 4 /80 ). January 29. The validity of the 1979 commodity exchange agreement with the U.S.S.R. was extended un t il March 31, 1980 for the opening of letters of credit and until June 30, 1980 for the completion of shipments (FE Circular No. 6 / 8 0 ). February 2. The Imports and Exports (Con t ro l) (Amendmen t) Ordinance, 1980, created special courts to adjudicate expeditiously cases of export offenses, together with a fund to compensate fore ign impor ters who were found to have suffered in ju ry because of mal- practices on the part of Pakistani exporters. February 14. The validity of the 1978 commodity exchange agreement with Bulgaria was fu r th er extended un t il June 30, 1980 for the opening of letters of credit and un t il September 30, 1980 for the completion of shipments (FE Circular No. 8 / 8 0 ). February 23. Exports of acetate yarn became eligible for fiscal rebates at the rate of 12.5 per cent of the f.o.b. export value. February 26. The import duty on caustic soda was reduced from PRs 2,830 a metric ton to an ad valorem rate of 50 per cent. February 27. The import duty on newspr int was changed, subjecting it to the lower of PRs 4,000 a metric ton or 100 per cent ad valorem with the possibility of rebating the entire duty to the newsprint indus try under certain conditions. February 27. The m in imum margin requirement for the opening of letters of credit for imports of raw wool by manu fac tu r ing units was reduced from 50 per cent to 25 per cent (BCD Circulars Nos. 2 /80 and 4 / 8 0 ). March 3. The terms and commodity lists of the Feb- ruary 20, 1980 one-year commodity exchange agreement with Hungary were made public. All transactions under the agreement would be expressed in U.S. dollars and channeled through special nonconvertible U.S. dollar accounts (FE Circular No. 11 /80 ). March 5. Imports required for boot and shoe manu- facturing were exempted from customs duty if such imports were for balancing, modernization, and replace- ment of recognized units. March 12. The minimum margin requirement for the opening of letters of credit for the import of asbestos fiber from barter sources was w i thdrawn (BCD Cir- cular No. 3 /80 ). March 15. Following the expiration of the 1974 trade and payments agreement, with effect f rom Janua ry 1, 318 1980, all settlements with the German Democratic Republic had to be effected in convertible currencies except ( 1) exports f rom Pakistan un t il December 31, 1980, which would be channeled through the existing U.S. dollar clearing account, and (2) payments for imports f rom the German Democratic Republic con- tracted up to December 31, 1979, which would be channeled through a special U.S. dollar clearing account (FE Circular No. 14 /80). March 24. The m in imum ma rg in requ i rement for the opening of letters of credit for the import of ar t if ic ial limbs and hearing aids and par ts was w i thd rawn (BCD Circular No. 5 /80 ). March 25. The b lanket permission for business travel was liberalized by (1) ex tend ing its va l id i ty f rom six months to one year and (2) pe rm i t t ing s imu l taneous travel by two representatives of the same company, provided both of them traveled to d is t inc t ly separate destinations (FE Circular No. 16 /80 ). April 2. The m in imum ma rg in requ iremen ts for the opening of letters of credit for all imports of raw ma te- rials by manu fac tu re rs of mach inery and electrical equip- ment were w i thd rawn (BCD Circular No. 8 / 8 0 ). April 8. Simplified procedures for travel under the 1980 Haj sponsorship scheme were announced (FE Cir- cular No. 19 /80 ). April 12. The va l id i ty of the 1977 commodity exchange agreement w i th Czechoslovakia was fu r th er extended u n t il December 31, 1980 for the completion of shipments in respect of letters of credit a lready estab- lished (FE Circular No. 20 /80 ). April 29. The va l id i ty of the 1979 commodity exchange agreement with the People's Republic of Ch ina was extended un t il September 30, 1980 for the opening of letters of credit and un t il December 31, 1980 for the completion of shipments (FE C ircu lar No. 2 5 / 8 0 ). April 30. The va l id i ty of the 1974 commodity exchange agreement between the TCP and A.B. Sukab of Sweden was fu r th er extended un t il June 30, 1981 for the opening of letters of credit and un t il September 30, 1981 for the completion of sh ipmen ts (FE Circular No. 26 /80 ). May 5. The terms and commodity lists of the April 11, 1980 one-year commodity exchange agreement with the U.S.S.R. were made public. While prices in contracts could be established in any free ly convertible fore ign currency, payments documents were to be drawn in U.S. dollars and all t ransac t ions under the agreement would be channeled through special nonconver t ib le U.S. dollar accounts (FE C ircu lar No. 2 8 / 8 0 ). May 11. The m in imum ma rg in requ irement for the opening of letters of credit for imports of iron and steel scrap and ships (unserviceable) for scrapp ing was reduced to 25 per cent (BCD C ircu lar No. 9 / 8 0 ). May 15. The m in imum ma rg in requ irement for the opening of letters of credit for the import of pesticides was w i thdrawn (BCD Circular No. 10 /80 ). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution May 20. The minimum margin requirement for the opening of letters of credit for the import of raw mate- rials for the manufac ture of gearboxes and rear axles for trucks and bus chassis and jeeps by the manufac- turers only was withdrawn (BCD Circular No. 11 /80 ). May 26. Restrictions on exports to and imports f rom Zimbabwe (former ly Rhodesia) were removed (FE Cir- cular No. 30 /80 ). June 21. The m in imum margin requirement for the opening of domestic letters of credit in favor of the TCP for purchases of bleaching powder was w i thdrawn (BCD Circular No. 14 /80). June 25. The terms and commodity lists of the May 6, 1980 one-year commodity exchange agreement with the People's Republic of China were made public. All payments documents were to be drawn in U.S. dol- lars and all transactions under the agreement would be channeled through a special U.S. dollar c lear ing account (FE Circular No. 34 /80 ). June 25. The m in imum ma rg in requirement for the opening of letters of credit for the import of vegetable seeds was w i thdrawn (BCD Circular No. 16 /80 ). June 29. The validity of the 1979 commodity exchange agreement w i th Poland was extended un t il October 31, 1980 for the opening of letters of credit and until January 1, 1981 for the completion of ship- ments (FE Circular No. 35 /80 ). July 1. The 1980/81 Import Policy Order became effective: six items were removed f rom the list of import- able items (and hence were implicitly b a n n e d ), four were added, and numerous amending regulations were introduced for some other items. The ceiling for machinery imports by commercial importers was increased from PRs 50,000 to PRs 100,000, while an exemption f rom the latter ruling was granted for speci- fied machinery imported by the exporting un i ts of seven additional industries. The 1980/81 Import Policy Order stated for the first time that import licenses for all items included in the permitted list would be issued in accor- dance with regulations published by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. For each importer, such licens- ing entitlements would become interchangeable for all items except consumer goods (which remained subject to ceilings for each importer and i tem) and also would be available in two equal semiannual installments rather than on a quarterly basis as was previously the case. July 1. In accordance with the provisions of the 1980/81 Import Policy Order, it was announced that un t il fu r th er notice import licenses would be issued to each importer up to 125 per cent of the higher of ( 1) the value licensed in 1978/79 or (2) the average value licensed during the three years ended June 30, 1980. Units that began operating in 1979/80 would be entitled to 110 per cent of their imports du r ing 1979/80 calcu- lated on an annual basis. PAKISTAN July 1. Regulatory ad valorem import duties rang ing f rom 5 per cent to 90 per cent were imposed on 16 raw material items. July 7. The validity of the 1978 commodity exchange agreement with Bulgaria was f u r t h er extended un t il September 30, 1980 for the opening of letters of credit and un t il December 31, 1980 for the completion of ship- ments (FE Circular No. 3 6 / 8 0 ). July 23. A new comprehensive l ist of m i n im um m a rg in requ i remen ts for the open ing of impo rt letters of credit was announced, as fo l lows: ( 1) zero for 33 i tems; (2) 25 per cent for 5 items; and (3) 35 per cent for 4 specified items, as well as for all items not speci- fied. (Prev ious ly, the rates app l ied were 0 per cent, 25 per cent, 50 per cent, and 100 per c en t .) August 17. The 1980/81 Export Trade Control Order con ta in ing regu la t ions b road ly unchanged f rom those of the prev ious year became e f fec t ive. The export of used copper or brass utensils was proh ib i ted, and the export of rice was restricted to pub l ic sector agencies. September 14. Foreign exchange allowances for stu- dents abroad were increased. A n n u al allowances for l iv ing expenses were raised f r om US$3,600 to US$4,400 for the Un i ted K ingdom, the rest of Europe, and Aus- t r a l i a; f r om US$4,000 to US$4,400 for the Un i ted States and Canada; and f rom US$2,500 to US$3,000 for other coun t r ies; a l lowances for other expenses related to studies were also raised (FE Circular No. 4 3 / 8 0 ). September 14. Res tr ic t ions on expor ts to and impor ts f rom Ta iwan were removed (FE C i rcu lar No. 4 3 / 8 0 ). September 14. It was announced that goods manu fac- tu r ed in the export processing zones would be perm i t ted to be exported w i thout requ i r ing a dec la ra t ion of fore ign exchange surrender (FE Circular No. 4 5 / 8 0 ). September 20. The va l id i ty of the 1979 commodity exchange agreement with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea was extended un t il December 10, 1980, but steel plates and sheets were removed f rom the list of commodities perm i t ted to be imported by Pakistan under the agreement (FE C ircu lar No. 4 6 / 8 0 ). September 22. Newsp r int impor ted by the publishers of newspapers and periodicals was exempted f rom impo rt duty. September 22. Revised procedures for the settlement of t ransac t ions between Pak is tan and other member countries of the Asian Clearing Union were announced, w i th effect f rom October 1. October 1. The customs du ty on unpacked tea was reduced f rom 55 per cent to 52 per cent. October 6. The impo r ta t ion of pesticides, fo rme r ly restricted to the public sector, was permitted to the pri- vate sector. October 8. The va l id i ty of the 1978 commodity exchange agreement with Hunga ry was f u r t h er extended un t il December 31, 1980 for the completion of ship- ments. 319 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN November 12. The validity of the 1979 commodity exchange agreement with Poland was further extended ( for imports from Poland only) until December 31, 1980 for the opening of letters of credit and until March 31, 1981 for the completion of shipments (FE Circular No. 54 /80). November 24. Simplified procedures were intro- duced for exporters obtaining credit under the Export Finance Scheme (BCD Circular No. 24 /80 ). November 30. The validity of the 1979 commodity exchange agreement with Czechoslovakia was extended until March 31, 1981 for the opening of letters of credit and until June 31, 1981 for the completion of shipments (FE Circular No. 57 /80). December 4. A one-year commodity exchange agree- ment was signed with Poland. December 20. The Government announced the removal of licensing restrictions on permitted list imports of all raw materials (except yarn and artificial fiber), all capital goods, and certain consumer goods. Simultaneously (1) 22 items were added to the per- mitted import list; (2) 5 items previously imported only by the TCP, namely, mercury, aluminium, copper, zinc, and lead, were allowed to be imported by the private sector; and (3) the ceiling on the import of machinery for which no permission from any govern- ment agency was required was raised from PRs 2.5 mil- lion to PRs 10.0 million, while the limit on the value of total new investment eligible for this facility was raised from PRs 2.5 million to PRs 20 million. December 22. The fiscal rebate of 12.5 per cent of the export f.o.b. value was extended to exports of cutlery, surgical instruments, and sports goods, with effect from January 1, 1981. 320 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Panama is the Panamanian Balboa, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar at B 1 = US$1. The U.S. dollar is legal tender and circulates freely in Panama; locally issued currency is represented by bal- boa coin and several commemorative coins. Commer- cial banks quote buying and selling rates for certain other currencies based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On November 26, 1946 Panama notified the Fund that it accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Most import and export licenses are issued by the Price Regulation Office, a semiautonomous institution of the Panamanian Government. The Price Regulation Office is responsible for the implementation of restric- tions on imports of commodities that compete with national production and on certain exports. The Minis- try of Commerce and Industry determines the import quotas for commodities listed in trade agreements, and the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development, jointly with the Price Regulation Office, those for cer- tain agricultural commodities. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Quotas are imposed on imports of commodities com- peting with present or prospective domestic production; some of these are not being licensed. Import licensing also applies to imports of various foodstuffs. Other imports are free. Imports by the public sector, however, are subject to special requirements. Payments abroad may be made freely. In addition to import duty, a tax of 7.5 per cent of the f.o.b. value is levied on private sector imports of all dutiable goods other than specified pharmaceutical products and foods tuffs, for which the rate is 2.5 per cent and 3.5 per cent, respectively; books are exempt. Most imports are also subject to a tax of 5 per cent calculated on the sum of the c.i.f. value and all other import taxes and charges; among the exemptions are fuels, lubricants, and related products, as well as food- stuffs, specified medicinal and pharmaceutical products, and imports into the Free Zone. Exports and Export Proceeds Authorization is required for exports of coffee, coco- nuts, copra, and beef cattle, and for certain manu- factured products in short supply. Merchandise on which export taxes are imposed is also subject to licens- ing. Export taxes are levied on gold, silver, platinum, manganese, and other minerals, sugar, bananas, coco- nuts, scrap metals, pearls, animal wax, nispero gum, ipecac root, and rubber. Exports of certain foodstuffs, firearms, and ammunition are prohibited. Certain non- traditional exports are eligible for tax credit certificates. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted. A travel tax of 4 per cent is levied on air and sea tickets bought in Panama or on such tickets pur- chased for travelers starting their trip in Panama. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Several foreign-controlled banks are authorized to con- duct business only with nonresidents. Gold Panama has issued two commemorative gold coins with face values of B 100 and B 500, which are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home or abroad and may freely negotiate gold in any form with residents or nonresidents at home and abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry carried as personal effects by travelers are subject to license if made by residents other than the monetary authorities; import licenses are issued freely by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, and export licenses are granted by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury. Exports of unworked gold produced in Panama are subject to an export duty of 1 per cent ad valorem, and exports of gold coin (other than U.S. coins, which are exempt) to a duty of 0.5 per cent. Changes during 1980 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 321 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Papua New Guinea is the Papua New Guinea Kina. The exchange rate of the k ina in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is adjusted daily on the basis of its relationship to a weighted basket of currencies representing Papua New Guinea's ma jor trad ing partners. On December 31, 1980 the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were US$1.5539 and US$1.5523, respectively, per K 1. For transactions with the public, outer limits are set on buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar and the Australian dollar. On December 31, 1980 the rates for the public posted by the authorized dealers were US$1.5571 buy- ing, and US$1.5491 selling, per K 1, and $A 1.3194 buying, and $ A 1.3114 selling, per K 1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Maximum spreads of 2 per cent between buying and selling rates are prescribed for other cur- rencies. Papua New Guinea formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom December 4, 1975. Administration of Control The Bank of Papua New Guinea administers exchange control according to the Foreign Exchange Regulations issued in November 1973. Overall policy is determined by the Government with the advice of the Bank of Papua New Guinea and the Department of Finance. The Bank of Papua New Guinea has delegated extensive powers to the commercial banks operating in Papua New Guinea, which have been appointed authorized dealers in foreign exchange. Export licensing is administered by the Department of Foreign A f fa i rs and Trade. Prescription of Currency Contractual commitments to persons resident outside Papua New Guinea, which are expressed in a foreign currency, must be met by payments in foreign cur- rency.1 Export proceeds may be received in any foreign currency or in kina f rom an overseas bank's account in Papua New Guinea. Nonresident Accounts The Bank of Papua New Guinea controls all credits to nonresident bank accounts; funds credited to such accounts may be withdrawn without fu r ther formality. Only in exceptional circumstances is approval given for a nonresident bank account to be denominated in a foreign currency. 1 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the kina. 322 Imports and Import Payments Imports of a limited number of goods are restricted for hea l th, security, and protection reasons. Imports of frozen poultry, flour, and stock feed are subject to quotas for reasons of domestic protection; quotas are adjusted quarterly, reflecting the extent to which local production can meet domestic demand. There are no import licensing requirements. Author- ized dealers have powers to approve most transactions without completing application forms or referring to the Bank of Papua New Guinea. Approval is given for payment to be made under extended credit terms for items such as capital equipment. Payments for Invisibles Approval is readily given for most payments for invisibles, provided that supporting documentation can be produced. The remittance overseas of life insurance premiums on new policies written after December 31, 1975 in the name of permanent residents is not per- mitted. No absolute limits are imposed on travel funds, although applications for exceptionally large amounts are referred to the Bank of Papua New Guinea for consideration. Travelers may not take or send out of Papua New Guinea domestic currency in excess of K 200 in notes and K 5 in coin; however, domestic coins issued for numismatic purposes may be taken out freely. Overseas visitors are free to take out any currency which they had brought in and recorded on arrival. Exports and Export Proceeds Residents of Papua New Guinea may export goods without exchange control formality on condition that they comply with the terms of the general authority issued by the Bank of Papua New Guinea. The essential conditions of this authority are that payment for goods exported is received within six months of the date of export and that the proceeds are sold to an authorized dealer in Papua New Guinea. Where exporters are not in a position to comply with the conditions of the general authority, they must apply to the Bank for a specific authority. No authority is needed for certain categories of goods, including sundry items such as passengers' personal effects. Export licenses are required for all types of goods under the Exports (Control and Valuation) Act. Special pro- visions are in force for the export of prescribed goods (logs, pearls, tuna fish, and wood ch ips). Specified commodities are subject to export levies. Proceeds from Invisibles Approval is required only for the disposal of foreign currency proceeds other than by sale to an authorized dealer in Papua New Guinea. Overseas visitors may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenditure. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Capital Outward transfers of overseas-owned capital are allowed without limit; advance commitments, however, are given only in exceptional circumstances. New invest- ment outside Papua New Guinea by permanent residents and by companies and other organizations operating in Papua New Guinea is subject to certain limitations. Where an investment is for por tfo l io reasons, the amount which may be invested in a 12-month period is limited to K 10,000 for individuals, K 25,000 for private companies, and K 100,000 for public companies. Invest- ment may only be in the fo rm of marketable company securities and real estate. The approval of the Bank of Papua New Guinea is needed for the acquisition and disposal of foreign securities by permanent residents.2 Persons who have been declared to be temporary residents by an authorized dealer or the Bank of Papua New Guinea may repatriate their surplus earnings without limit. Approval by the Bank of Papua New Guinea is required for all new or increased fore ign investment in Papua New Guinea. In most cases the Bank of Papua New Guinea refers such applications to the Ministry of Finance. Foreign investments other than those in bank ing and insurance are also subject to approval by the National Investment and Development Authority. In addition to investment in the form of loans and 2 Foreign securities are defined in the Central Banking Act as including deposits in overseas bank accounts and debts due by persons outside Papua New Guinea. PAPUA NEW GUINEA equity capital, approval from the Bank of Papua New Guinea is also necessary for the acknowledgment of indebtedness so that a right to receive a payment is con- ferred on a nonresident. Gold Under the Central Banking (Gold) Regulations, approval by the Bank of Papua New Guinea is neces- sary for the sale, purchase, export, and import of gold. However, the regulations permit Papua New Guinea miners to export gold to Aus tra l ia for refining without specific approval. The regulations do not apply to gold used in the course of a person's profession, to Papua New Guinea currency, or to gold coins with a gold content of less than K 50. A gold coin valued at K 100 is legal tender but does not circulate; it may be taken out freely by travelers. Changes during 1980 January L To prevent tax evasion, taxation clearance certificates were required for certain transfers of capi- tal funds prior to approval by the Bank of Papua New Guinea or authorized dealers. February 29. The annual quota on rice imports was suspended. April L New arrangements relating to spot and fo rwa rd exchange transactions were introduced. The intervention currency was changed from the Australian dollar to the U.S. dollar. April 18. Exchange and trade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe (former ly Rhodesia) were lifted. 323 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Paraguay is the Paraguayan Guarani, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at 0 126 = US$1. There are two exchange markets. Exports and imports (except unrecorded border trade and certain imports from Argentina and Brazil falling under the regional trade regime —despacho aduanero regional), certain services, all government transactions, payments made under the reciprocal credit mechanism of the Latin American Integration Associa- tion (LA IA ), and registered private transactions and related profit remittances are channeled through the official market (mercado libre bancario), where the buy- ing or selling rates are 0 126 per US$1, subject to cer- tain taxes and commissions. A tax of 1.5 per cent is levied on purchases and sales of exchange in the official market, except for transactions with foreign embassies and diplomats, with meat packing plants, and those relating to investments in Paraguay under the terms of Investment Law No. 550/75. In addition, banks charge a commission of 2 per cent on all sales of foreign exchange. All transactions not channeled through the official market pass through the fluctuating free market (mer- cado libre fluctuante) in which the exchange rate fluc- tuates freely. On December 31, 1980 the buying and selling rates in the fluctuating free market were 0 132.50 and 0 134.50, respectively, per US$1. Additional selling rates arise from taxes of 10 per cent on outward remittances of profits and dividends and of 30 per cent on outward remittances of interest, income shares, rent, honoraria, commissions, and other income accruing to nonresidents from Paraguayan sources. For interest payments on foreign loans con- tracted by national banks, this tax is applied only to the spread if floating rate loans are involved, and only to the first 6l/2 per cent interest if they are fixed-rate loans. There are no forward exchange facilities. The authorized banks, but not the exchange houses, are required to sell 30 per cent of their daily gross foreign exchange receipts in specified currencies1 to the Central Bank. Administration of Control The Central Bank determines foreign exchange policy and supervises the foreign exchange transactions carried out by banks and exchange houses. Prescription of Currency Payments between Paraguay and Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made through accounts which the Central 1 Argentine pesos, Belgian francs, Brazilian cruzeiros, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 324 Bank of Paraguay and the other central banks concerned maintain with each other, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the LAIA. Clearing takes place every four months but Paraguay, as a relatively less developed country, may request special settlement every two months. There are no other prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain commodities require authoriza- tion.2 Imports of wheat and wheat flour are effected by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. Certain other items require a license from the Ministry of Interior; these are mainly narcotics, gambling devices, and arms and ammunition. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited.3 All other imports are free of quantitative restriction and licensing. Imports of certain commodi- ties are subject to an advance deposit of 100 per cent of the f.o.b. value for a period of not less than 120 days. Advance deposits are not required for public sector imports, imports by foreign diplomats and by foreign staff of certain international organizations, imports of petroleum and petroleum derivatives, certain machinery and agricultural equipment, wheat, cement, and printed matter f rom any source, imports from neighboring coun- tries and Uruguay, and imports from other LAIA coun- tries of items included in the Paraguayan concession list ( the National L is t). The Central Bank has authority to grant exemptions on a case-by-case basis. Surcharges, calculated on the c.i.f. value, are payable on most imports even if no foreign exchange payment takes place. An import surcharge of 36 per cent applies to most general imports f rom any source; however, for goods originating in LAIA countries and included in the Paraguayan National List the rate ranges from 3 per cent to 30 per cent, and for certain other goods from LAIA countries (mainly Pharmaceuticals in a special l is t), the rate is 8 per cent. Fuel derived from petroleum is sub- ject to a surcharge of 15 per cent (10 per cent for neighboring countries and U ruguay ). There is an addi- tional surcharge of 5 per cent on imports from all sources of telephone and telegraph equipment, television receivers, and radios and record players and their parts and accessories. Surcharges are collected by the banks at the time of delivery of the documents for customs clearance or when the import payment is made, which- ever is earlier. The following are the principal imports exempted from the surcharge: wheat, cement, crude petroleum, equipment for petroleum exploration and exploitation, agricultural tractors, imports for the Gov- 2 These include table wine in bulk, natural grape must concentrate, rice in the husk or with any degree of processing, gasoline, diesel oil, gas oil, kerosene, wire, nails, dry cell batteries, and potatoes, garlic, and onions during local harvest seasons. 3 These include certain textiles and continuous forms for use in cash registers and computers and also imports intended for re-export. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ernment, imports for religious, charitable, cultural, or educational purposes, and imports by foreign diplomats and certain international organizations. Agricultural and industrial machinery and equipment imported through the Spanish free zone in Paraguay, agricultural machinery and equipment for the National Wheat Pro- gram, books and periodicals, and imports for invest- ments under Investment Law No. 550/75 are also exempted. Imports of investment goods and of raw materials for export industries receive exemption on a case-by-case basis. In addition to the above surcharges, a tariff surcharge is levied on certain imports. On goods that are not exempt, the rate of surcharge is generally 12 per cent to 24 per cent (8 per cent to 16 per cent for certain goods subject to LAI A concessions) and the surcharge is levied on the c.i.f. value, calculated as the f.o.b. value plus 10 per cent for imports from neighboring countries and Uruguay, or the f.o.b. value plus 20 per cent for imports from other countries. Exempt from this additional import duty are public sector and diplomatic imports, raw materials and equipment for the production of goods that are subject to internal consumption taxes, imports under the Investment Law, and all imported goods taxed under the Internal Consumption Tax Law. Imports are also subject to sales tax ranging from 5-10 per cent, and certain imports are subject to a 15 per cent ad valorem levy. There is also a 1 per cent tax on general imports and a unified import duty of 12 per cent for intermediate goods and raw materials for industry. Imports of specified goods (including television sets and precious metals) may not be financed with foreign credit. Imports on credit for a term of more than six months require approval from the Central Bank. This approval is normally granted only for imports of machinery and other capital goods. Import payments must be made through banks, at the official market rate of exchange. For certain com- modities originating in Argentina and Brazil and falling under the regional trade regime, import payments need not be channeled through banks at the official rate of exchange. As long as proof of payment of the prefer- ential tariff rates for these imports can be presented, payment may be effected with the importer's own foreign exchange or by purchasing foreign exchange at the fluctuating free market rate. Import payments are free f rom formal restriction, but certain delays arise from time to time as a result of the system of releasing for- eign exchange to the private commercial banks only on a weekly basis. Payments through the LAI A clearing system are made promptly. Payments for Invisibles Payments for almost all current invisibles are chan- neled through the free market, with the exception of travel tickets for foreign technicians employed by gov- ernment agencies and remittances of principal and PARAGUAY interest on capital brought into the country and regis- tered at the Central Bank under Investment Law No. 550/75. All other remittances, such as students' living expenses abroad, payments for travel tickets, medical services, private gifts, family assistance, and any other services, are channeled through the free market. Travelers may take out any amount in foreign or domes- tic currency. There is an ad valorem sales tax of 5 per cent on international airline tickets. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of logs and rough beams and some other unprocessed forest products are prohibited, as are exports of rawhides and cement. Beef exports are subject to annual export quotas and certain other exports require prior authorization in order to ensure adequate supplies for domestic consumption and to meet the needs of domestic industries. All other exports are free from licensing requirements, but some require a certificate issued by the Institute of Technology and Standards, the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, and /or the Minis- try of Agriculture and Stock Raising. The proceeds of exports must be collected within 180 days after completion of the banking formalities related to the shipping documents. The foreign exchange must be converted at banks authorized to deal in exchange. For all exports the Central Bank establishes m in imum export prices denominated in U.S. dollars. Export proceeds corresponding either to these prices or to the invoiced value, whichever is higher, must be surrendered in the official exchange market; for coffee exports, however,- the equivalent of 50 per cent of the m in imum export price may be retained and used to pay dividends and interest owed to nonresidents and to pay for machinery and equipment imported for the exporter's own use. Advance receipts of export proceeds must also be sold to authorized banks. Export taxation is based on a list of assumed export values (aforos) published by the Ministry of Finance. Most exports are subject to taxes, payable in guaranies, ranging from 2.5 per cent to 7.5 per cent of the f.o.b. value. There is a tax on exports of soybeans ranging from approximately 3 per cent for cooperatives to nearly 7 per cent for other exporters; exports of expellers and soybean flour are tax exempt. One group of exports is subject to an additional tax of 1.5 per cent. Exports of meat products are exempt from export taxes. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from invisibles may be retained or sold in the fluctuating free market. There are no sur- render requirements for proceeds from invisibles. Trav- elers may bring in any amount in foreign or domestic currency. Capital All inward and outward transfers must be channeled through the authorized banks or exchange houses. Banks may provide foreign exchange at the official market rate 325 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY for transfers of registered capital, subject to presenta- tion of appropriate documentation. All other capital movements are channeled through the free market (i.e., the exchange houses) with the prior approval of the Central Bank. Investment Law No. 550/75 empowers the Government to grant special tax, customs, import surcharge, and advance deposit concessions to proposed investments, provided that these are duly registered and approved. Capital imported and registered under this law may be retransferred in installments of up to 20 per cent f rom the third year af ter the beginning of produc- tion, in the currency originally imported. Gold Decree-Law No. 18/52 provides that the Central Bank may prescribe the maximum amount of gold and foreign exchange that may be held by residents; this requirement does not apply to amounts held by the Central Bank or by institutions authorized to deal in foreign currencies. In practice, residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, in Paraguay or abroad, and exchange houses may freely deal in gold coin, gold bars, and gold leaf with residents and non- residents. Exports and imports of gold in any form other than jewelry by nonbank residents and industrial users require the prior approval of the Central Bank; payments for gold imports by industrial users must be made through authorized banks at the official exchange rate, and payments for imports by others must be made th rough exchange houses at the fluctuating free market rate. Changes during 1980 March 26. The 30 per cent tax on interest remittances in respect of loans contracted abroad by national banks was redefined to apply only to the spread on floating rate loans and for fixed-rate loans only to the first 6V2 per cent interest (Decree-Law No. 14720). July 22. Imports of passenger automobiles by auton- omous and semiautonomous agencies, previously exempt f rom all import charges, were made subject to 50 per cent of the regular import charges (Decree-Law No. 17965). July 24. The number of import items subject to the regional trade regime was increased (Decree-Law No. 18019); the preferential treatment applied to whis- key and cigarettes with regard to import taxation was also extended to a number of other alcoholic beverages (Decree-Law No. 18020). 326 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Peru is the Peruvian Sol. The exchange rate for the sol is established by the Central Reserve Bank in relation to the U.S. dollar, the inter- vention currency, and is adjusted frequently on the basis of a set of indicators. Exchange market transactions may also be conducted in 14 other currencies.1 All exchange transactions must be conducted through the banking system or recognized exchange dealers, and banks and dealers operating in the unified exchange market are required to limit the spread between their buying and selling rates on any given day to not more than 0.5 per cent. No commissions are charged by the Central Reserve Bank on any exchange transaction. On December 31, 1980 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were S/. 340.842 and S/. 342.612, respectively, per US$1. Banks and nonbank financial institutions may open foreign exchange demand and time deposit accounts for residents and nonresidents. In addition, banks may issue certificates of deposit denominated in foreign cur- rencies. Funds deposited in these accounts or used to purchase these bank certificates must not be derived from export proceeds. Foreign currency certificates of deposit must be for amounts not less than US$1,000 and have a maturity no longer than 360 days. They are freely negotiable both in Peru and abroad and may be used by the holder for making all permitted payments and transfers, including import payments. Transactions in foreign currency certificates usually take place at a small premium over the official buying and selling rates; since February 1979, the rates for these certificates have remained generally within 1 per cent of the official rates. Residents are free to hold abroad their foreign exchange receipts other than those from exports. If repatriated, such exchange may be sold to the banking system, or be deposited in foreign currency accounts, or be used to purchase foreign currency certificates of deposit. Export proceeds, including loans for the pre- financing of exports, must be surrendered to the Cen- tral Reserve Bank, which issues convertible foreign exchange certificates equal to 10 per cent of the value of such receipts. During their validity period of ten working days, these certificates can be converted by the exporter into soles or foreign currency deposits or certificates of deposit. In the case of all but four traditional export items the Central Reserve Bank issues ten-day exchange certificates for the remaining 90 per cent. These exchange 1 Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs, together with U.S. dollars, are prescribed for external t rade transactions. For nontrade transactions, operations may also be effected in Austrian schillings, Canadian dollars, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kronor, and Venezuelan bolivares. certificates are held by the surrendering bank for use by the exporter for his own permitted foreign exchange payments and transfers or for conversion into soles at the buying rate in effect at the close of the preceding business day. If not so utilized within their maturity, the certificates are canceled, and the corresponding amount in soles is credited to the account of the bank at the buying rate in effect at the close of the preceding busi- ness day, minus a discount of 2 per cent. For sur- rendered receipts from exports of minerals and hydro- carbons and of fish meal and fish oil, the Central Reserve Bank issues such certificates for only 60 per cent and 70 per cent, respectively, of the amount surrendered. For the balance (viz., 30 per cent and 20 per cent, respectively, of the amount surrendered), the exporter receives nonnegotiable U.S. dollar-denomi- nated exchange certificates with a maturity of 90 days and an interest rate of 0.5 percentage points below the London interbank offered rate (LIBOR). Peru formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement as f rom February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Export and import licenses are issued by the Direc- torate of Foreign Trade in the Ministry of Industry, Tourism, and Integration. The Central Reserve Bank issues foreign exchange certificates against receipts from exports, and authorizes, directly or by delegation, most payments for invisibles. The Import Supervision Com- mission is the ultimate administrative authority on appli- cations for prior import licenses denied at a lower level and rules on the exclusion of importers from the National Register of Importers. It also exercises gen- eral surveillance over the flow of imports and their effects on domestic production and is empowered to make recommendations to the Import Valuation Com- mission. The latter commission exercises surveillance over customs valuation and has the authority to pur- chase and auction off, or to impose special duties on, those imports deemed to be undervalued or dumped. Public sector imports valued at more than US$10,000 require the approval of the Board for External Trans- actions of the Public Sector and must be registered with the Directorate of Foreign Trade. Public sector imports valued at more than US$50,000 require, in addition, a resolution of the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Commerce. Borrowing abroad by the public sector, as well as borrowing abroad by the private sector with a govern- ment guarantee, is subject to prior approval by Supreme Decree, on the recommendation of the High Committee of the External Debt, the National Planning Institute, and the Permanent Commission on External Credit in the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Commerce. The 327 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU National Commission on Investment and Foreign Tech- nology (CON ITE) supervises foreign direct investment in Peru, the use of foreign trademarks, patents, and licenses, as well as the related royalty payments. Most payments for invisibles require the approval of either CONITE or the Central Reserve Bank. Prescription of Currency All exchange market operations must be effected in one of the 15 prescribed convertible currencies, but exchange certificates may be issued by the Central Reserve Bank only in U.S. dollars. Settlements in respect of trade transactions with Poland must be made through special accounts denominated in U.S. dollars, which have been established under a bilateral payments agree- ment. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. Payments between Peru and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru and the other central banks concerned, within the framework of the multi- lateral clearing system of the Latin American Integra- tion Association (LA IA ). Imports and Import Payments Import prohibitions are limited to certain raw cotton products and arms, which comprise only 6 out of more than 5,100 eight-digit items on the Peruvian customs nomenclature (NABAND INA ). Another set of 118 items is importable only subject to prior approval (obser- vation) from the appropriate ministry. They include items subject to public sector monopoly or deemed in need of protection or damaging to public welfare. All other items may be imported without quantitative restric- tion but require that the importers be listed in the National Register of Importers. However, imports val- ued at up to US$2,000 a year are free f rom licensing or registration requirements. Imports from countries of the Andean Pact do not require an import license and need only be registered with the Directorate of Foreign Trade. Imports of raw materials and intermediate goods for the production of nontraditional exports are exempted from import duties and do not require a specific import license, provided that the appropriate ministry determines that such imports qua l i fy under the Temporary Admission Regime. Certain industrial raw materials and fertilizers, as well as certain agricultural commodities, such as wheat, may be imported only by the National Enterprise for Industrial Marketing (ENC I ), and crude petroleum and petroleum derivatives only by PETROPERU, a government agency. Imports of capital goods must be covered by irre- vocable documentary credits, and the intermediating bank must guarantee refunding of the foreign currency if the import is not effected by the time the relevant documentary credit expires. There are no minimum 328 f inanc ing requirements for imports, and advance pay- ments are permitted except for capital goods imported by firms with an annual turnover in excess of S/.10 bil- l ion. Foreign borrowing to finance imports of the pri- vate sector may be subject to a cash deposit requirement (see section on Capital, be low ). All goods, Whether imported or produced domes- t ica l ly, are subject to a sales tax, levied at a general rate of 22 per cent, a max imum rate of 40 per cent, pref- eren t ial rates between 2 per cent and 6 per cent, and reduced rates corresponding to effective rates of between 15 per cent and 20 per cent; there is also a list of exempted items. Under the 1980 customs ta r i f f, as amended, the maximum import duty is 60 per cent ad valorem. In addition, many imports are subject to either one or both of the following taxes: (1) an additional import tax for the promotion of nontraditional exports of 1 per cent of c.i.f. value and (2) a maritime freight tax of 10 per cent of the ocean freight charges. How- ever, certain goods originating in Andean Pact countries may be imported du ty free. Public sector imports must, in principle, be shipped in Peruvian vessels. Payments for Invisibles Authorization of the Central Reserve Bank or other agencies is required for most payments for invisibles, but the sale of foreign exchange is generally authorized freely, provided genu ine current payments are involved. Remittance of net profits, including depletion and depreciation allowances, requires approval of CONITE and a prior tax clearance. Remittance of profits on foreign capital invested in Peru is limited to 20 per cent a year, although a higher percentage may be permitted in exceptional cases.2 All payments for royalties, patents, trademarks, and licenses require the prior approval of CONITE. Foreign-owned enterprises may not en ter into new contracts to pay royalties to a foreign parent company or its affiliates. The effective interest rate on a new loan f rom a foreign parent company or its aff i l ia te may not exceed by more than 3 per cent the prevailing interest rate for first-class assets in the money market of the coun try in whose currency the transaction is conducted. Approval by the Central Reserve Bank is required for purchases of foreign exchange for pay- ments of interest on certain loans, for remittances for social and human i ta r ian purposes, for income, insur- ance, and pension remittances to nonresidents, and for expenditures of agencies, branches, and offices of non- resident firms. Interest payments by public sector entities require the approval of the General Directorate of Public Credit. The indicative annual limit on purchases of foreign exchange for tourism is US$8,000 a person (US$500 a year for children under 12 years). For business travel the limit is US$400 a person a day up to US$12,000 a 2 Companies expo r t ing at least 80 per cent of their production to coun t r ies outside the Andean Pact and mining companies are exempt. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution trip, plus representation expenses of US$500 a trip; approval of the Central Reserve Bank is required for business travel allocations. For both tourist and business travel, there is a flat tax of US$35 payable in national currency. Remittances for studies abroad require the approval of the National Institute of Scholarships and Educational Loans (!NABEC) and are generally limited to US$3,000 a month for external students and US$600 a month for residential students or those on scholar- ships. Limits are also established for medical travel and for certain other types of travel. Family remittances by Peruvian residents are limited to US$800 a month and require the authorization of the Central Reserve Bank. Foreigners resident in Peru may remit up to 50 per cent of their annual income to cover specified foreign obli- gations, but those who avail themselves of these pro- visions are required to waive all rights to purchase for- eign exchange under other provisions of the exchange laws. The Central Reserve Bank may authorize pur- chases of exchange in excess of the above limits in justified cases. Nonresidents visiting Peru for purposes of tourism or business may, upon leaving the country, purchase up to US$500 in foreign exchange on presentation of evidence that at least that amount in foreign exchange had been converted into soles in the preceding 30 days. The export of domestic currency in excess of S/. 1,000 by travelers is prohibited, but the Central Reserve Bank may grant exemptions in special circumstances. Exports and Export Proceeds The Banco Minero del Peru has a monopoly over the export of uncut precious stones and pearls, and MINEROPERU and the Banco Minero over exports of gold and silver. Among other exports, monopolies are held by MINPECO, over exports of minerals; PESCAPERU, over exports of fish meal and fish oil; PETROPERU, over exports of petroleum derivatives; and ENCI, over exports of coffee and cotton. All exports are subject to license, and all export proceeds, as well as export prefinancing loans, must be surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank within ten working days of receipt. Traditional exports must be sold against an irrevocable letter of credit con- firmed by a bank established in Peru. In special cases, and with the authorization of the Central Reserve Bank and the Directorate of Foreign Trade, exports may be sold against sight drafts, provided that payment is received within 180 days of shipment. Exporters of nontraditional products or local handi- craft articles are granted transferable tax credit certifi- cates (certificados de reintegro tributario or CERTEX) equivalent to a maximum of 30 per cent of the c. & f. value (the f.o.b. value is used when the goods are shipped in foreign vessels).3 These certificates may be used by the exporter in payment of his tax obligations 3 In addition, 2 per cent is allowed for new exports, 10 per cent for exports from outside the Lima-Callao area, and 10 per cent for goods considered to be priority exports. PERU or may be sold to other taxpayers, who may use them for the same purpose. The Banco de la Nacion admin- isters an export credit guarantee program, and the Industrial Bank provides or arranges export finance for nontraditional exports. Most traditional exports are subject to a tax of 17.5 per cent, which is payable in soles, but exports of sugar and of copper from the mineral deposits of Cuajone or by small and medium- sized mining enterprises are exempt. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles may be held abroad or sold to the bank ing system or deposited in authorized for- eign exchange accounts within ten working days of receipt. Travelers may not bring in more than S/. 1,000 in Peruvian currency, but the Central Reserve Bank may grant exceptional treatment in special circum- stances. Capital Outward capital transfers require approval. For trans- fers derived from foreign direct investment the approval of CONITE is required, while for most other transfers the appropriate agency is the Central Reserve Bank. Minimum maturities and grace periods for different categories of external loans contracted or guaranteed by the public sector have been established. Further- more, there was a global limit of US$450 million for 1980 on the contracting of new public or publicly guaranteed debt (with certain exceptions) having an original maturity of more than one but less than ten years. Most external borrowing or loan renewals by the private sector are subject to a 25 per cent non- interest-bearing cash deposit requirement in local cur- rency; in the case of prefinancing loans for certain exports, the deposit requirement is 15 per cent. Loan amortization payments of the private sector are author- ized by the Central Reserve Bank and those of the public sector by the General Directorate of Public Credit. In cases where proceeds of foreign loans have been used to purchase foreign currency bank certificates of deposit or to make deposits directly to foreign currency accounts, amortization payments on such loans are not eligible for transfer at the official exchange rate. Banks may receive funds originating abroad in the form of drafts, checks, bank transfers, foreign currency travelers checks, or foreign notes and coin for deposit to foreign currency accounts maintained in the name of residents or nonresidents. They may also issue for- eign exchange certificates of deposit against such funds. These funds and the accrued interest thereon may be freely disposed of by the depositor, and both are exempt from income and inheritance taxes until December 31, 1980. Under an exchange amnesty, residents may repatriate foreign assets without specifying the origin of such funds and without facing penalties for having violated exchange laws in effect prior to October 7, 1977. Such repatriated funds are exempt from all taxes, including income taxes. 329 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU In compliance with the foreign investment regime approved by the countries of the Andean Pact, new foreign investments must be authorized and registered with the appropriate agency, in most instances CONITE, so that such investments are directed to projects con- sidered essential for the country's development. If a foreign company incorporated in Peru as of July 1, 1971 wished to benefit from the duty-free program of the Cartagena Agreement, it was required to agree by June 30, 1974 to the gradual acquisition by national investors of shares in the company so as to transform it into a mixed or national company during a maximum period of 15 years following the entering into effect of this regime. For this purpose, mixed companies are defined as those in which national investors hold between 51 per cent and 80 per cent of the capital, while national companies are those in Which at least 80 per cent of the capital is owned by national investors. Since June 30, 1974 the required participation of national investors in the capital of an enterprise has been not less than 15 per cent; this participation must be raised to at least 45 per cent after 10 years and to at least 51 per cent at the end of the 15-year period. In the case of foreign com- panies established in Peru after June 30, 1971, the 15 per cent participation by national investors must be secured at the time of the initiation of production. Foreign investments in firms engaged in basic industries or in mining activities (including petroleum production) and in firms that export at least 80 per cent of their pro- duction to countries outside the Andean Common Mar- ket are exempt from the requirement of gradual trans- formation into mixed companies; however, these enter- prises do not benefit from the duty-free program of the Cartagena Agreement. Foreign enterprises may not have access to domestic credit on terms longer than 3 years or in amounts greater than their capital and reserves. Investment in the mining sector is governed by the General Mining Law. Companies holding mining con- cessions may enter into mining contracts with the Gov- ernment providing for special incentives and guarantees or may constitute mixed enterprises with government participation of at least 25 per cent. The Government may grant to mining concessionaries (initiating large- scale investment programs) tax incentives and guaran- teed availability of foreign exchange for transfers for ( 1) recovery of investment, (2) interest payments if the rate does not exceed the prevailing rate for similar loans in the financial market from which the loans originate, (3) payments for justified services, and (4) reasonable profit remittances, together with guaranteed access to the most favorable exchange rate. Mixed mining enter- prises may receive all the benefits and incentives which may be granted by special contract and, in addition, special tax reductions. Gold The export of gold and silver in the form of agglom- erated or native metals is the monopoly of MINEROPERU, 330 while their export in the form of precious metals is the monopoly of the Banco Minero del Peru. The authori- ties do not make foreign exchange available for imports of gold other than by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users. Domestic sales and purchases of gold may be carried out by industrial and professional users, pro- vided that they hold licenses issued by the Banco Minero del Peru, but only MINEROPERU is authorized to make the initial purchase of newly mined gold and other precious metals. Residents traveling abroad may not take out jewelry valued at over S/. 50,000 unless it has been registered with the customs (S/. 15,000 when visiting neighboring countries). Changes during 1980 January 3. A new system came into operation for the conversion of export proceeds of certain traditional products, namely, minerals, hydrocarbons, fish meal, coffee, and, when permitted, fish oil: 55 per cent of the export proceeds of these products would be converted by the Central Reserve Bank, one day after their sur- render, into nonnegotiable foreign exchange certificates denominated in U.S. dollars and valid for a period of ten working days from the date of issue. In addition, the Central Reserve Bank would issue 90-day non- negotiable foreign exchange certificates, equivalent to 30 per cent of the export proceeds surrendered in the case of minerals and hydrocarbons, and to 20 per cent for the remaining three products, which would bear interest at a rate 2 percentage points above the dis- count rate of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York applicable on the day of surrender. At maturity, the Central Reserve Bank would convert the amount of principal plus interest on these foreign exchange certifi- cates into soles at the prevailing exchange rate. The remaining 15 per cent and 25 per cent of export pro- ceeds from the two categories of products, respectively, would be converted into soles on the day of surrender (Exchange Resolution No. 001/80). January 3. Decree-Law No. 22837 established the Import Supervision Commission with the following functions: to act as the ultimate administrative authority for examining cases where applications for prior import licenses have been denied at a lower level; to exercise general surveillance over the flow of imports and their effects on domestic production; and to rule on the exclusion of importers from the National Register of Importers for noncompliance with laws and regula- tions governing imports. The Commission was also empowered to make appropriate recommendations to the Import Valuation Commission, which was set up simultaneously to exercise surveillance over customs valuation of imports. January 7. The deposit requirement on private sector borrowing abroad was raised from 15 per cent to 25 per cent. Prefinancing loans in relation to exports covered ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution by Exchange Resolution No. 001/80 (i.e., minerals, hydrocarbons, fish meal, coffee, and, when permitted, fish oil) would continue to be subject to a 15 per cent deposit requirement (Exchange Resolution No. 002/80). January 8. Supreme Resolution No. 005-80-ICTI/ CO-CE removed the prior approval requirement (obser- vation) for some 240 products (mostly textiles and clothing), thus freeing such items from all quantitative import restrictions. However, some of these items (mostly finished textiles and clothing products) became subject to a special import surcharge of 20 per cent ad valorem. This surcharge was withdrawn on May 8 by Supreme Resolution No. 070-80-ICTI/CO-CE. January 8. Supreme Decree No. 003-80-EF added 21 new products to the customs nomenclature and intro- duced some adjustments of the import duty rates. January 15. Supreme Decree No. 002-80-ICTI/CO- CE regulated the granting of tax rebates (CERTEX) for exports of mineral products. The amount of such rebates would be based on the value of the mineral at the time of acquisition rather than of final sale. January 15. Supreme Decree No. 003-80-ICTI/CO- CE established a schedule for the phased reduction of CERTEX on certain exports, including alpaca tops and slivers, as well as certain copper and zinc products, and excluded certain other copper products from the defi- nition of nontraditional exports. January 17. Nonbanks were authorized to deal in foreign exchange. Exchange Circular No. 003/80 speci- fied the requirements for being recognized as an exchange dealer by the Central Reserve Bank and regulated the operations of exchange dealers in the unified exchange market by prescribing, inter alia, a maximum spread of 0.5 per cent for their dealings and a US$100,000 limit on their daily overbought position. Excess balances had to be sold to the banking system. January 24. Supreme Resolution No. 013-80-ICTI/ CO-CE added certain fish products to the list of items whose export was subject to prior administrative approval. January 25. Supreme Resolution No. 014-80-ICTI/ CO-CE added meat products to the List of Permitted Imports. February 8. Six items under the customs nomencla- ture were freed from the prior approval requirement (Supreme Resolution No. 016-80-ICTI/CO-CE). February 21. Supreme Decree No. 006-80 established norms for the issuance of prior import licenses and regulated the func t ion ing. of the Import Supervision Commission. February 25. Supreme Decree No. 038-80-EF adjusted the definition of a few customs categories. February 25. Supreme Resolution No. 026-80-ICTI/ CO-CE eliminated the prior approval requirement for 58 nomenclature items and established temporary import surcharges of 10 per cent or 20 per cent ad valorem on 29 electrical appliances included among PERU those items. These surcharges were abolished on Octo- ber 17 by Supreme Resolution No. 390-80-EF/CO. February 29. Residents were given access to the uni- fied exchange market for the settlement of obligations arising from contracts in foreign exchange (Exchange Resolution No. 004/80). Previously, a resident could be party to a local contract expressed in terms of for- eign currency only if the obligation to pay foreign cur- rency could be met from his own foreign exchange earnings or holdings other than those derived from the f.o.b. value of exports. March 6. Supreme Decree No. 041-80-EF raised the limit beyond which public sector imports required a prior resolution f rom the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Commerce from US$10,000 to US$50,000. Imports up to that limit henceforth required only the approval of the Board for External Transactions of the Public Sector (Exchange Resolution No. 006/80 of March 14, 1980; see also Exchange Resolution No. 007/80, below). March 12. Supreme Decree No. 045-80-EF freed some 275 food items from the 10 per cent import sur- charge introduced by Decree-Law No. 22173. March 12. Supreme Decree No. 045-80-EF exempted 130 eight-digit customs items representing meat, fish, vegetables, fruits, spices, and their products, and dairy products from the temporary 10 per cent import sur- charge introduced by Decree-Law No. 22173. March 14. The indicative exchange allocations for many types of foreign travel and family remittances were raised substantially: the annual allocation for tour- ism and the monthly allocation for family remittances were doubled, while monthly allocations for study abroad and daily allocations for business travel were raised by 50 per cent. The indicative allocation for each business trip was raised from US$4,500 to US$12,000. At the same time, the maximum daily overbought foreign exchange position of commercial banks was raised from US$3 million to US$5 million (Exchange Resolution No. 005/80). March 26. The temporary surcharge of 10 per cent on most imports, which had been introduced by Decree- Law No. 22173 of May 9, 1978 and was subsequently extended until December 31, 1980 by Decree-Law No. 22376 of December 5, 1978, was abolished with immediate effect (Decree-Law No. 22960). March 27. The prior approval requirement from the Board for External Transactions of the Public Sector was waived for public sector imports valued at up to US$10,000 (Exchange Resolution No. 007/80). March 27. The Central Reserve Bank was authorized to exempt foreign cash loans on favorable terms and with a maturity over three years from the cash deposit requirement on private sector borrowing from abroad. The borrower had to commit himself not to prepay the loan (Exchange Resolution No. 008/80). April 2. Coffee exports were exempted from the spe- cial surrender regulations established by Exchange Reso- 331 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU lution No. 001/80. As a result, 55 per cent of exchange surrenders from coffee exports or its prefinancing would be converted into ten-day exchange certificates and the balance into soles (Exchange Resolution No. 009/80). April 8. Under Supreme Decree No. 067-80-EF the additional import tax of 1 per cent ad valorem was withdrawn from 1,416 customs items. At the same time, Supreme Decree No. 068-80-EF exempted 496 customs items from the 10 per cent tax on maritime freight charges. April 15. The ad valorem tax rates on 248 items covering 29 chapters of the customs tariff were modi- fied. The rates were raised on 211 items, representing mostly intermediate goods. In most cases, the increase was 10 per cent with a range of 5 per cent to 30 per cent (Supreme Decree No. 072-80-EF). April 24. The indicative exchange allocations for stu- dent exchange travel and for personnel on Peruvian international carriers were doubled. The limit on exchange sales to departing nonresidents was raised from US$50 to US$500, and the indicative exchange allocation for imported medicines without local substi- tutes was raised from US$200 to US$1,000 (Exchange Resolution No. 010/80). April 24. Supreme Decree No. 085-80-EF exempted the import of newsprint from customs duty until Decem- ber 31 and subjected such imports to prior approval by the General Directorate of Industries of the Ministry of Industry, Tourism, and Integration (see also entry for July 19, below). April 24. Supreme Resolution No. 058-80-ICTI/ CO-CE permitted the importation of 12 eight-digit cus- toms items, including one item with prior approval requirement from the General Directorate of Industries. May 8. Foreign exchange proceeds other than those stemming from exports or their prefinancing could henceforth be deposited in accounts abroad, as an alter- native to depositing them in foreign currency accounts in Peru or selling them to the domestic banking system (Exchange Resolution No. 011/80). May 14. With effect from July 1 the interest rate paid by the Central Reserve Bank on banks' deposits corresponding to the 100 per cent marginal reserve requirement on foreign currency liabilities was changed from the New York prime rate to LIBOR for 90-day deposits in U.S. dollars (Central Reserve Bank Circular No. 008/80). May 15. The ad valorem rates of 490 items covering 43 chapters of the customs tariff were modified (Supreme Decree No. 104-80-EF). The rates were lowered by between 5 per cent and 40 per cent on 349 items, representing mostly foodstuffs. May 22. The 90-day LIBOR for U.S. dollar deposits was substituted for the New York prime rate and the discount rate of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York as the rate of remuneration on certain domes- tically held foreign exchange claims (Exchange Reso- 332 lution No. 012 /80). Thus, exporters could henceforth use ten-day exchange certificates to make time deposits with the Central Reserve Bank for 90 days at an interest rate of 0.5 percentage point below LIBOR (instead of the preceding practice of deposits for 30, 60, or 90 days at 0.5, 0.75, or 1 percentage point, respectively, above the New York prime rate) and the 90-day exchange certificates would bear interest at 0.5 percentage point below LIBOR (instead of the pre- vious practice of 2 percentage points above the discount rate of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York). July 19. To overcome domestic supply shortages caused by the drought, the public sector import monop- oly as well as the customs duty for newsprint were sus- pended until December 31 (Decree-Law No. 23190). July 24. Supreme Resolution No. 106-80-ICTI/ CO-CE permitted the importation of 102 eight-digit customs items, including 4 items with prior approval requirement from the General Directorate of Industries. July 25. In order to meet domestic supply shortages, the import duties on certain paper products representing eight customs subitems (including bond paper and paper for boxes) were lowered to 35 per cent until Decem- ber 31, and the items were subjected to prior approval by the General Directorate of Industries (Supreme Decree No. 188-80-EF). August 1. Peru discontinued the practice of pre- announcing the exchange rate of the sol in terms of the U.S. dollar. Henceforth, the sol was depreciated frequently in line with the relative price movement between Peru and its major trading partners. August 15. Supreme Resolution No. 339-80-EFC permitted the import of 278 eight-digit customs items without quantitative restriction. September 11. The maximum import tariff was reduced from 150 per cent to 60 per cent (Supreme Decree No. 210-80-EF). As a result, as from Sep- tember 13, 638 items previously subject to higher rates were taxed at the 60 per cent rate and the average tariff became 35 per cent. September 12. The list of items subject to prior licensing requirement or to import restriction was reduced to 138 eight-digit customs categories; 7 of these consisted of prohibited imports, while the remaining 131 required prior ministerial approval (Supreme Decree No. 211-80-EF). September 18. The rules for the surrender of pro- ceeds from exports or their prefinancing were modified with effect from October 1 (Exchange Resolution No. 013 /80 ). All exporters became eligible for 10-day convertible exchange certificates for 10 per cent of their surrender. During their period of validity, these exchange certificates could be converted into soles or foreign currency deposits or certificates of deposit. For the remaining 90 per cent, 10-day exchange certificates would be issued for all but certain specified traditional exports: during their validity these other certificates ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU could be used for permitted payments abroad or sold for soles. In the case of surrenders from minerals and hydrocarbons on the one hand and fish meal and fish oil on the other hand, 90-day nonnegotiable certificates of exchange would be issued for 30 per cent and 20 per cent, respectively, of the surrender proceeds and 10-day exchange certificates for the balance (i.e., 60 per cent and 70 per cent, respectively). November 20. The prior import licensing and prior ministerial approval requirements were eliminated for items in 13 eight-digit customs categories; in addition, the number of prohibited items was reduced to 6 (Min- isterial Resolution No. 983 -80 -EF / l l ). November 28. Imports up to a value of US$2,000 could be imported without import license or registration. Residents importing up to that value were not required to be on the National Register of Importers. December 15. Commodities in 52 eight-digit catego- ries, the importation of which was previously limited to the public sector, were made subject to the requirement of prior ministerial approval (Ministerial Resolution No. 1092-80-EF/CO). 333 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Philippines is the Philippine Peso. The authorities of the Philippines do not main- tain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are determined largely on the basis of demand and supply in the exchange market. However, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to maintain orderly conditions in the exchange market and other policy objectives in the medium term. The Bankers' Association establishes daily a "guiding rate"; on December 31, 1980 this rate was P 7.60 per US$1. The buying and selling rates of the Central Bank of the Philippines for the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency and the sole currency quoted, on the same date were P 7.6570 and P 7.5620, respectively, per US$1. In spot transactions of less than US$100,000 with their customers, commercial banks are required by the Association to observe certain margins. The max imum and m in imum spot buy ing rates are 0.50 per cent and 1 per cent, respectively, below the gu id ing rate. The m in imum and max imum spot selling rates are 0.75 per cent and 1.25 per cent, respectively, above the gu id ing rate. For transactions in excess of US$100,000, the margins are determined competitively. The Central Bank is not governed by the Association's t rad ing rules in making its own purchases and sales of fo re ign exchange. Interbank t rad ing takes place at the Foreign Exchange Trading Center (FOREX ), where the Central Bank f rom time to time acts as a buyer or as a supplier. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange regulations are administered by the Central Bank on the basis of policy decisions reached by the Monetary Board. Certain new foreign direct or port- folio investments in the Philippines require the prior approval of the Board of Investments (BO I ). Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements for outgoing payments, but all exchange proceeds f rom exports and invisibles must be obtained in prescribed currencies.1 Most payments and transfers to South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Bank accounts denominated in pesos may be opened in the names of nonresidents, whether individual or corporate, without the prior approval of the Central Bank. Nonresident accounts may be credited only with 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche m a rk, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ne ther- lands guilders, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swiss f ranc s, and U.S. dollars. 334 the proceeds f rom inward remittances of foreign exchange or convertible foreign currencies and with peso income f rom, or peso proceeds of, conversion of properties (real or personal) located in the Philippines and belonging to nonresidents. Nonresident accounts may be freely debited for peso withdrawals. With- drawals f rom nonresident accounts for t rans fer abroad are subject to ind iv idual application with supporting evidence, and to established l im i ts where applicable, such as in the case of emigrants. Subject to authorization, both residents and non- residents may ma in ta in fore ign currency accounts with authorized agent banks in the Philippines (see section on Proceeds f r om Invisibles, be low). Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom South A f r ica are proh ib i ted. Impor ts of cer ta in commodities are prohibited on grounds of health, na t ional welfare, and security. Imports of certain com- modities require prior approval by specified govern- ment agencies or committees, ma in ly for protective purposes. Sales of fore ign exchange for imports of specified commodities are subject to pr ior approval of the Central Bank; such approval is granted on a case- by-case basis for commodities classified under two categories of consumer goods —unclassified (UC) and nonessential (NEC ) .2 Paymen ts for impo r ts of ce r ta in other commodities (whea t, raw cotton, and leaf tobacco) are permitted only if they are financed th rough certain o f f ic ial credit arrangemen ts. Any impo r ta t ion of plant, mach inery, equ ipmen t, and spare parts und er de fe r red paymen ts arrangemen ts with m a tu r i ty periods longer than 360 days is subject to prior approval by the Central Bank. If payment terms are cash or w i t h in 360 days, p r ior approval by the Central Bank is neces- sary for impo r ta t ion by any single impor ter of non- ag r icu l tu ral mach inery and equ ipment w i th an aggre- gate va lue in excess of US$50,000 w i th in a ca lendar month, with the exception of certified export-oriented firms and other importers who have obtained prescribed certification f rom the BOI. Trade w i th any of the state t rad ing countries, exclud- ing Yugoslavia, must be effected through the Ph i l ipp ine In te rna t ional Trading Corporation. As a method of payment, commodities may be imported against letters of credit, on a document against acceptance ( D / A) basis, or under open account (O /A) arrangemen ts. The use of the D/A and O /A procedures is confined ma in ly to firms w i th a h is tory of impo r t ing 2 At the end of 1980, import items in over 1,300 t a r i ff categories were classified under the import categories UC and NEC. In add i- tion, prior Central Bank approval was requ i red for sales of fo r e ign exchange for imports of the following i tem s: spec if ied t ex t i le p roduc ts that are subject to a mo ra to r ium; ships and a p p u r t e n a n ce the re to; excavating machinery; concrete m ixers and pavers; and wagons, tra i lers, and carts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution under these arrangements prior to February 21, 1970; to producer firms established after that date and expressly authorized by the Monetary Board to import under these arrangements; to producer firms that are export oriented, are registered with the BOI, or are franchised utility concerns; and to such others as may be approved by the Central Bank. The use of these procedures by producer firms normally is restricted to commodities in the Essential Producer Goods category. Unless arrangements are made for such terms of credit, imports in excess of US$100 (US$500 for publications) must be covered by letters of credit opened on or before the day of shipment. Imports financed by the importer's own foreign exchange or not involving payments from the Philippines are allowed, subject to prescribed con- ditions, and are exempt from the requirement of opening letters of credit. At the request of an authorized agent bank or other financial institution, a firm may be "watch listed" by the Central Bank for arrears on its loan repayment commitments. A firm thus "watch listed" may not open import letters of credit without the approval of the Central Bank, which will allow the opening of letters of credit only after a schedule for the repayment of overdue obligations has been agreed upon. Certain authorized agent banks require 100 per cent deposit against the opening of letters of credit for such firms, compared with 25 per cent or 50 per cent in normal cases. There are separate regulations for border regions by barter traders. imports into Payments for Invisibles Virtually all payments to South Africa are prohibited. In principle, all other payments are permitted, without prior approval of the Central Bank, provided that amounts of more than US$100 are substantiated by documentary evidence. However, there are certain limits established by the Central Bank for purchases of foreign exchange for travel abroad by residents, remit- tances for educational expenses, maintenance and expenses of dependents of residents while abroad, remittances of profits, dividends, and interest, royalties, and film and other rentals (see be low). For business travel abroad, foreign exchange is made available by authorized agent banks in the amount of US$25 a day, up to a maximum of US$750 a trip; for duly registered exporters, the limits are (1) for travel to Africa, North America, South America, Australia, Canada, Europe, Japan, and the Middle East: US$150 a day (US$100 a day for firms with annual foreign exchange earnings of less than US$250,000) for a maximum of 20 days, plus US$500 for representation expenses and (2) for travel to other countries: US$120 a day (US$70 a day for firms with annual foreign exchange earnings of less than US$250,000) for a maximum of 10 days, plus US$300 for representation expenses; eligible busi- ness travel abroad in both cases is limited to four trips a PHILIPPINES year. For nonbusiness travel to Afr ica, North America, South America, Australia, Europe, Japan, the Middle East, and New Zealand the allocation for each adult resi- dent is limited to US$500 a year and to US$200 a year for such travel to Guam, Hong Kong, or any other neighboring country. The following limits apply to exchange for educational expenses abroad for students undertaking degree courses at duly accredited colleges or universities: for studies in the United States, US$250 a month for living and other out-of-school expenses, plus the cost of tuition, books, laboratory fees, and other school charges; for studies in Australia, Europe, Japan, and New Zealand, US$200 a month. Any scholarship allowances are deducted f rom these amounts. The following limits apply for rem i t tances to depend- ents of residents: US$250 a month for each dependent l iv ing in the United States; US$200 a month for each dependent living in Aus tra l ia, Europe, Japan, or New Zealand; and US$100 a month for each dependent living in other areas. The maintenance allowances for dependents are allowed only for close relatives under conditions prescribed by the Central Bank. Remittances of profits and dividends (net of taxes) accruing to nonresidents out of net profits realized since Janua ry 1, 1973 are permitted in fu l l, provided that remittances are not financed from domestic credit. Profits earned and dividends declared before Janua ry 1, 1973 (which had been unremittable for some t ime) may be remitted provided that such remittances are not financed by domestic borrowings. Remittances of royalties or rentals on patents, trademarks, and copy- rights are freely permitted (net of taxes) for contracts registered w i th the Central Bank, provided that the royalties do not exceed 5 per cent of the wholesale price of the commodity that is manu fac tu red locally under the royalty contract (2 per cent in the case of ma rke t ing service con trac ts), and that contracts do not exceed five-year terms and do not include restrictions on the export of the product. Remittances of the pro- ducer's share of earnings made on motion-picture films and rentals on television films are freely permitted, provided generally that the shares or rentals do not exceed 60 per cent of net proceeds from films. Foreign exchange w i th in the above limits may be purchased from authorized agent banks, w i thout prior approval of the Central Bank, for current payments for invisibles administratively withheld prior to Novem- ber 26, 1969. Applications for certain invisibles for which no basic allowance has been set are considered on the ir merit by the Central Bank. No person may take out or export from the Philip- pines foreign currency or any other foreign exchange except as authorized by the Central Bank. Residents may take out, as part of their travel allowance, up to US$100 in foreign banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of foreign currency that they had previously brought in and declared, less any 335 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES amounts converted into pesos. Resident and nonresident travelers require prior authorization from the Central Bank to take out more than P 500 in domestic notes and coin or checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange drawn in pesos. Citizens of the Philippines, when traveling abroad, must pay a travel tax of P 1,000 for first-class ship or airplane tickets or P 600 for any other ticket. Exempt are, among others, foreign diplo- matic staff and Philippine nationals making their first pilgrimage to Mecca. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Exports of certain strategic materials and items deemed essential for industrialization and economic development are also prohibited. Otherwise, exports are generally not restricted, but are regulated to ensure that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered to an authorized agent of the Central Bank. Authorized agent banks issue the necessary export permits upon registration of the exporter's report of foreign sales (except export permits for gold, which are issued by the Central B a n k ); reports of foreign sales of copra, coconut oil, and sugar-based commodities, however, are approved for registration only by the Central Bank. Registration of sales of sugar-based commodities requires prior clearance by the Department of Trade. As a general rule, no commodity may be exported unless it is covered by a d ra ft drawn in one of the prescribed currencies (see footnote 1) and unless col- lection of the proceeds will be undertaken by an authorized agent bank; however, payment by means of telegraphic transfer, check, or mail transfer may be allowed. Payments for exports on a cash, collection, or consignment basis must be arranged through an authorized agent bank, which must specifically contract with the exporter to buy the exchange proceeds. No shipment of exports will be allowed by the customs unless a certificate is issued by a bank stating that payment has been received or arranged. Export pro- ceeds must be received in a prescribed currency within 60 days from the date of shipment (or within such period as may be established in special cases) and sur- rendered to the agent bank within 3 business days of receipt. An irrevocable letter of credit is required for all exports of scrap metals, copra, and coconut oil, and for all exports to Guam, Hong Kong, Indonesia, and Japan. Exports of perishable commodities to Hong Kong require prepayment. Under an "export deduction" scheme, export-oriented industries are allowed, subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank, to use a part of their export pro- ceeds for the repayment of the loans obtained for imports of machinery, raw materials, and other require- ments. An export tax is levied on the f.o.b. value of certain ma jor exports. The rate is 6 per cent for centrifugal sugar; 4 per cent for gold, silver, iron ore and con- 336 centrates, chromite ore and concentrates, unmanu- factured abaca, molasses, canned pineapples, bunker fuel oil, cement clinker, portland cement, petroleum pitch and residues, and lumber and veneer; and 2 per cent for bananas. However, the export taxes on mineral products and cement are suspended. Certain traditional export commodities are subject to premium export duties; those on mineral products and cement are suspended. The Philippine Sugar Commission has a monopoly over the export of sugar. Export trade with state trading countries, excluding Yugoslavia, is handled through the Philippine International Trading Corporation. There are separate regulations for exports from border regions by barter traders. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles must be sold w i th in three business days to an authorized agent bank. Philippine construction companies registered with the Philippine Overseas Construction Board and having overseas pro- jects may retain abroad, on a noncumulative basis, specified portions of their net foreign exchange receipts to meet their operational foreign exchange requirements for the succeeding calendar quarter. Philippine nationals employed abroad are permitted to open U.S. dollar deposit accounts with authorized agent banks, in which they may retain any U.S. dollars they remit to the Philippines. To be eligible for credit to such accounts, earnings must be transferred through Philippine diplo- matic establishments. Under a foreign currency deposit scheme, inward remittances of foreign currencies by residents or nonresidents for deposit in numbered foreign currency accounts are exempt f rom surrender requirements, provided that the remittances represent neither current earnings or income of residents nor payments by nonresidents pursuant to contractual obli- gations. Balances in such accounts are freely trans- ferable abroad. Philippine nationals work ing abroad are required to repatriate specified minimum shares of their foreign earnings, ranging f rom 30 per cent to 70 per cent. Travelers may freely bring in any amount of foreign currency and up to P 500 in domestic notes and coin and checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange drawn in pesos, of which not more than P 50 may consist of Philippine coin. The P 1,500 "IMF- IBRD" gold coin and the "Ang Bangong Lipunan" are exempt from these requirements. Capital Virtually all payments and transfers to South Africa are prohibited. All inward and outward capital move- ments, with the exception of certain banking operations and certain transactions related to financing of inter- national trade (see below), are subject to the prior and specific approval of the Central Bank. When applica- tions for new inward foreign investments (in kind or in cash), as well as new foreign borrowings are reviewed, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution preference is given to projects approved by the BOI, to export-oriented industries, and to other (nonexport- oriented) industries not utilizing domestic credit resources. The law guarantees full repatriation of cash investments made after March 15, 1973 in export- oriented industries that have been certified by the Central Bank, in enterprises registered with the BOI, and in securities certified by the Central Bank and traded on the Manila and Makati Stock Exchanges. As a minimum, foreign investors must hold securities for at least 90 days before the proceeds become eligible for repatriation. Foreign companies are eligible to borrow pesos from domestic sources, provided they have a debt-equity ratio of 60:40 in high-priority sectors, 55:45 in medium- priority sectors, and 50:50 in low-priority sectors. Foreign direct cash investments made af ter March 15, 1973 and registered with the Central Bank are freely repatriable, except for investments in domestic com- mercial banks, which, if made after March 31, 1973, are freely repatriable and if made before that date are repatriable according to the schedule in (4) below. There are certain restrictions on sales of foreign exchange for the repatriation of foreign direct cash investments made before March 16, 1973 and noncash investments made after March 15, 1973, depending on the category of industry where the investment is made, as follows: (1) investments in export-oriented industries certified by the Central Bank are repatriable in full, but no annual installment may exceed the applicant's share in the net foreign exchange earnings of the firm in the preceding year; (2) investments in enterprises registered with the BOI, producing import substitutes or exports, are repatriable in three equal annual installments starting one year a f ter the liquida- tion of the investment, but no annual installment may exceed the total net foreign exchange earnings in the preceding year; ( 3) investments in enterprises registered with the BOI (not included in (2) above and not utiliz- ing domestic credit resources) are repatriable in four equal annual installments starting one year after the liquidation of the investment; and (4) for investments in the remaining industries, repatriation is allowed according to the following schedule: for amounts of US$0.25 million or less, five equal annual installments after liquidation; for amounts of US$0.25-0.5 million, seven equal annual installments after liquidation; and for amounts of over US$0.5 million, nine equal annual installments after liquidation. Dur ing the period between the date of the investment and repatriation, l iqu ida t ion proceeds may be reinvested, subject to approval by the Central Bank, in foreign currency deposits, in govern- ment securities, or in shares of stock in export-oriented industries registered with the BOI or certified by the Central Bank. Without prior Central Bank approval, commercial banks may not receive credit from abroad other than PHILIPPINES credit arising f rom normal international trade trans- actions. They may, however, accept deposits in n ine scheduled currencies3 f rom nonresidents of foreign nationality; such deposits are freely repatriable at the prevailing exchange rate and are exempt f rom the 35 per cent withholding tax. Eighteen domestic commercial banks and four local branches of fo re ign banks are licensed to operate in an expanded fore ign currency deposit scheme; these fore ign currency deposit un it banks (FCDUs) are empowered to borrow f u n ds f rom international money markets for domestic on-lending. Nonbank residents may obtain suppliers' credits f rom abroad provided that repayment terms are within the limits prescribed by the Central Bank. Ma tu r i t ies of long-term loans or repayment terms should be as follows: (1) US$250,000 or less, three years; (2) over US$250,000 to US$500,000, five years; (3) over US$500,000 to US$3 m i l l ion, seven years; and (4) over US$3 million, ten years. Firms whose products are clearly destined for export, as well as firms ea rn ing foreign exchange and duly certified or registered in priority areas with appropr ia te government agencies, may secure credits in excess of US$3 million with a minimum repayment period of eight years. Interest rates may not be more than 1.5 per cent above the prime rate of the lend ing coun t ry. App l ica t ions are not approved if the proposed project expands capac i ty in an industry deemed to be overcrowded, or for firms that are in arrears with government financial in s t i tu- tions. Sales of fore ign exchange for amo r t iza t ion of loans are permitted in accordance w i th the terms of loan contracts approved by the Central Bank. The same applies for loan contracts registered w i th the Central Bank prior to November 26, 1969. For those not fa l l ing under these two categories, pr ior approval by the Central Bank is required for sales of fore ign exchange for repayment of loans. Emigrants may t ran s fer up to US$5,000, subject to verification by the Cen tral Bank. The rema in ing l iqu id assets may be w i thd rawn in five years beg inn ing one year f rom emigration. Outward inves tment by resident persons, firms, or corporations requires prior approval of the Central Bank through the Management of External Debt and Investment Accounts Depar tmen t. Except as other- wise specifically authorized, resident persons, firms, or corporations may not enter into any contract or trans- action which may involve settlement in fore ign exchange, or involving any assets belonging to them expressed in foreign currencies or payable or deliverable abroad. This restriction also applies to contracts or transac t ions involving assets within the Philippines belonging to a nonresident person, firm, or corpora t ion, and to their export or import. Detailed regulations are in force 8 Canadian dollars, deutsche ma rk, French f rancs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. dollars. 337 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES concerning transactions in securities between residents and nonresidents. Twenty-one foreign banks have been authorized to operate offshore banking units in the Philippines. These units may engage in a wide range of foreign currency transactions with nonresidents and with other offshore units. All investors in enterprises registered with the BOI are guaranteed the right to repatriate their investments, and to remit earnings thereon and sums needed to meet payments of principal and interest on foreign loans; they are also guaranteed freedom from expro- priation and requisition. There are different arrange- ments for "pioneer investments" and "preferred invest- ments"; the former are granted certain incentives over and above those given to preferred investments. Normally, enterprises owned or controlled by for- eigners are permitted to operate only in "pioneer areas of investment," and at least 60 per cent of the out- standing voting capital stock of registered enterprises in "preferred areas of investment" must be owned by Philippine nationals. Under the Foreign Investment Law of 1968, new enterprises where investment by non- Filipinos exceeds 30 per cent and which are not covered by the Investment Incentives Act of 1967 must obtain prior authority from the BOI in order to engage in any economic activity in the Philippines. If purchases of shares of common stock by foreign nationals would reduce Philippine ownership in a firm to less than 70 per cent, permission from the BOI must first be obtained. Gold Producers of gold may be eligible for assistance under the Gold Industry Assistance Act, irrespective of whether this gold is a by-product or the principal or only product of their operations. The Central Bank purchases the entire output of the 12 domestic primary gold producers. The producers are paid in Philippine pesos based on the latest London fixing price and the prevailing Philippine peso-U.S. dollar exchange rate. The gold so acquired is deemed to be part of official international reserves. Small gold panners are exempt from the scheme. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized gold dealers, and authorized industrial users are not allowed to purchase gold abroad in any form other than jewelry. A gold coin with a face value of P 1,000 has been issued, which is legal tender; another gold coin valued at P 1,500 was issued in connection with the 1976 Annual Meeting of the IMF and the IBRD in Manila. These coins may be imported freely by travelers as well as resident physical or juridical persons. With this exception, imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. 338 Changes during 1980 January 1. The Philippines became a member of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. January 28. Commodities in 66 tariff headings were removed from the restricted import category UC and were made freely importable (MAAB No. 2 ). February 7. Import duties on 13 tariff lines were reduced, implementing the tariff concessions negotiated during the GATT Multilateral Trade Negotiations (Executive Order No. 578). February 22. It was announced that trade with Yugo- slavia would no longer require prior approval of the Philippine International Trading Corporation (MAAB No. 5). March 6. The use of the consular invoice as a documentary requirement for imports to the Philippines was eliminated; instead, commercial invoices would need to be presented to a consular officer of the Philip- pines for authentication (Presidential Decree No. 1679). March 11. Executive Order No. 581 reimposed the 4 per cent export tax and 20 per cent premium duty on gold, silver, copper ore or concentrates, and refrac- tory chrome; the 4 per cent export tax on lumber and veneer was also reimposed. (However, the export tax and prem ium duties on mineral products were suspended on March 25 by Executive Order No. 587.) March 17. Reduced rates of import duties on a number of ta r i ff lines were extended to member coun- tries of the Association of South East A s ian Nations under the ASEAN Agreement on Preferential Trading Arrangements (Executive Order No. 582). March 20. The export tax on bananas was reduced f rom 4 per cent to 2 per cent (Customs Memorandum Circular No. 9-80). April 23. The 4 per cent export tax on Virginia leaf tobacco was abolished (Customs Memorandum Circular No. 19-80). May 13. Commodities in 29 tariff headings were removed from the restricted import categories (UC and NEC) and were made freely importable (MAAB No. 10). May 17. Copra, coconut oil, copra meal or cake, and dessicated coconut were exempted from export taxes (Executive Order No. 593). June 11. Economic sanctions against Rhodesia (Zim- babwe) were lifted pursuant to Resolution No. 460 of the UN Security Council dated December 21, 1979 (Central Bank Circular No. 738). August 1. Earners of foreign exchange from trans- actions in invisibles were made eligible for registration with the Central Bank as "export-oriented," and certain incentives available to firms certified as "export-oriented" were extended to them (Central Bank Circular No. 746). August 1. It was announced that the rates of import duty on 531 tariff lines would be reduced with effect f rom January 1, 1981, as part of a phased tar iff reform program (Executive Order No. 609). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES August 1. Reduced rates of import duties on 267 tariff lines were extended to ASEAN member countries under the ASEAN Agreement on Preferential Trading Arrangements (Executive Order No. 610). September 4. In furtherance of a phased liberaliza- tion of exchange restrictions on imports, the Central Bank announced that with effect from January 1, 1981 authorized agent banks could freely sell foreign exchange for commodities in 263 tariff lines previously included in the restricted import categories "nonessential con- sumer goods" and "unclassified consumer goods" (Cen- tral Bank Circular No. 758). September 8. Foreign exchange allocations were substantially increased for business travel abroad by duly registered exporters. The new limits were as follows: (1) for travel to Africa, North America, South America, Australia, Canada, Europe, Japan, and the Middle East: US$150 a day (US$100 a day for firms with annual foreign exchange earnings of less than US$250,000) for a max imum of 20 days, plus US$500 for representation expenses; and (2) for travel to other countries: US$120 a day (US$70 a day for firms with annual foreign exchange earnings of less than US$250,000) for a maximum of 10 days, plus US$300 for representation expenses. In addition, eligible busi- ness travel abroad was limited to four trips a year in both cases. 339 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Portugal is the Portuguese Escudo, the exchange rate of which is adjusted at relatively short intervals in relation to a basket of currencies, weighted according to their importance in Portugal's international transactions in merchandise, tourism, and private trans- fers. Periodically the Bank of Portugal announces depreciation objectives for the effective exchange rate of the escudo: the rate of depreciation was initially set in May 1978 at 1.25 per cent but had been lowered pro- gressively to 0.50 per cent a month by June 1980, fol- lowing a 6 per cent appreciation in effective terms in February 1980. On December 31, 1980 the authorized banks' buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Esc 52.957 and Esc 53.123, respectively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies1 are quoted by the Bank of Portugal on the basis of U.S. dollar rates in exchange markets abroad. Neither the Bank of Portugal nor the commercial banks charge buying and selling commis- sions, but there is a tax of 0.3 per cent on all sales of foreign exchange. The Macao pataca is pegged to the Hong Kong dollar at a parity rate of P 1.0750 = HK$1. Authorized banks may deal in foreign exchange with the Bank of Portugal. They are also normally allowed to deal in foreign exchange with banks abroad at the rates prevailing in the Portuguese foreign exchange mar- ket. They are not allowed to buy and sell foreign exchange among themselves, or to enter into arbitrage operations in foreign markets. In dealing with their customers, the authorized banks buy and sell foreign exchange in convertible currencies for their own account. Purchases and sales of unquoted currencies can be made only through an authorized bank acting on a commission basis. Banks are required to obtain the prior approval of the Bank of Portugal to accept deposits in foreign currencies from residents or nonresidents and to obtain short-term credits abroad. The banks may use their foreign exchange holdings for all authorized purposes, but the Ministry of Finance may set limits on the use of these resources and, in certain circumstances, may require that foreign exchange assets be sold to the Bank of Portugal. The net foreign asset positions of the authorized banks and their gross foreign exchange holdings are subject to ceilings. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Bank of Portugal on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, with the assistance of the commercial banks authorized for this purpose. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Irish pounds, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, South African rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 340 Trade control policy is formulated and implemented by the Ministry of Trade and Tourism; almost all for- eign trade transactions are subject to prior registration with the Ministry. The Director-General of Foreign Commerce in this Ministry is responsible for adminis- tering trade controls. Import and export bulletins are issued by a department within the Directorate-General of Foreign Commerce or by other authorized executive departments. State agencies undertaking international trade transactions are required to use Portuguese vessels. Prescription of Currency Transactions with Greece and Turkey are settled on a monthly basis through clearing accounts maintained in U.S. dollars. Export transactions with other countries may be settled in the quoted currencies1 or in U.S. dol- lars. (Canadian dollars, Finnish markkaa, Irish pounds, Japanese yen, South African rand, and Spanish pesetas may only be used in transactions with the countries issuing the currency.) Payments to nonresidents may be made by crediting escudos to a nonresident account, the opening of which is subject to prior approval by the Bank of Portugal. Nonresident Accounts Foreign Accounts in Escudos are divided into (1) Time Foreign Accounts in Escudos, for which the opening, debiting, and crediting are subject to special advance authorization of the Bank of Portugal, and (2) Demand Foreign Accounts in Escudos, which may be opened, debited, and credited without prior authori- zation of the Bank of Portugal for payments for trans- actions authorized in escudos concerning imports and exports of goods, services, and capital between Portugal and foreign countries and for transfers between such accounts. For all other debit and credit operations, authorization of the Bank of Portugal is required. The granting of credit in the form of overdrafts on the accounts described above requires the authorization of the Bank of Portugal. Foreign Accounts in Escudos in the names of persons resident or domiciled in countries with which Portugal has special clearing arrangements2 are opened, debited, and credited according to instructions issued by the Bank of Portugal. Special accounts in escudos have been established to which must be credited those Portuguese banknotes that have been presented by foreign correspondents and are in excess of the amounts that may be credited to Demand Foreign Accounts in Escudos. These accounts may be debited only for payments in escudos to resi- dents, subject to the prior authorization of the Bank of Portugal. 2 Greece and Turkey. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Deposit accounts in escudos may be opened by Portu- guese emigrants. Such accounts may be in the form of current accounts, accounts requiring advance notice of withdrawal, or time accounts. Without prior authoriza- tion f rom the Bank of Portugal, deposit accounts may be credited only with remittances from abroad received through the banking system or in the form of an inter- national postal order, the equivalent in escudos of exter- nal means of payment sold to credit institutions by emigrants, and interest due on such deposits. Deposit accounts may be debited without restrictions. Nonresidents may open time foreign accounts in eight foreign currencies. Such accounts may be credited with remittances from abroad and with the related interest due and may be debited without restrictions. However, a nonresident wishing to use the funds on these accounts in Portugal is subject to the exchange regulations currently in force. There are also provisions for resident accounts in for- eign currencies. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain products are prohibited or are allowed only under specific conditions, mainly for rea- sons of health, public order, and the prevention of com- mercial f raud. Any physical or juridical entity may be an importer; importers must have an import entitlement and must pay income taxes regularly. Prior registration (in the form of a "bulletin") is required for all imports valued at over Esc 5,000. Almost all imports from all sources are effected on the basis of "bulletins." For imports free of quantitative restriction, the bulletin enables the importer to obtain the necessary foreign exchange. For imports subject to restriction, the bulletin is equivalent to an import license. The validity of the bulletin is 3 months for customs clearance purposes, and 12 months from the date of customs clearance for settlement purposes; hi special cases, longer validity periods may be granted. Personal baggage and imports of merchandise, the value of which does not exceed Esc 5,000, do not require a bulletin, except when forming part of an order with a total value exceeding Esc 5,000 and provided they are not expressly excluded f rom this exemption. Payments beyond one year a f ter customs clearance require the approval of the Bank of Portugal. Imports of certain items, such as unassembled auto- mobiles, household appliances, and fruits, are subject temporarily to quota limitations in value terms. Goods not on the negative list may be imported freely from most countries that are members of the GATT. The negative list includes certain foodstuffs and other agri- cu l tural products, certain natural or manufactured raw materials, some textile fibers, and a small number of finished products, including motor vehicles; the items on the list are subject to quantitative restrictions for pro- tective reasons or under special regimes. A somewhat PORTUGAL more extensive negative list applies to Japan. The GATT liberalization does not apply to Ghana and Nigeria; imports from these GATT members of goods that would be liberalized if imported from other GATT countries, are subject to individual authorization, which is granted on the merits of the case. Nonliberalized imports from countries that are GATT members are admitted under individual authorization. All imports from countries that are not members of the GATT are based on individual authorizations; imports from some Eastern European countries are generally licensed in accordance with bilateral trading arrangements. There are a few bilateral quotas for specified agricul- tural imports from certain EFTA countries. Imports of nonliberalized industrial products, except for certain protected steel products and automobiles, are free of quantitative restrictions when originating in EFTA or EC countries. Special legislation provides that auto- mobiles must be assembled in Portugal, and the assembly is subject to the use of certain minimum percentages of domestic components. However, imports of passenger automobiles of non-EFTA and non-EC origin are allowed up to 15 units a producer a year for those makes not assembled in Portugal and, for other makes, up to 2 per cent of the number of passenger automobiles of the same make that were assembled in Portugal in the preceding year. In 1980 imports of some makes of EFTA and EC origin were allowed up to 350 units for each producer. Imports of commercial vehicles for special purposes are free of restrictions. Domestic credit financing is restricted for certain imports and foreign financing is required for certain imports. Minimum proportions of foreign financing and m in imum repayment terms are prescribed by the Bank of Portugal. Many imports are subject to a temporary import surcharge of 10 per cent or 60 per cent of the customs value, irrespective of origin. Payments for Invisibles Payments to foreign countries for current invisibles must be made through authorized banks and are gen- erally free of quantitative restrictions, but for most trans- actions ceilings are specified for the amounts of foreign exchange that authorized banks may grant freely. For payments to countries with which Portugal does not maintain special clearing arrangements, the author- ized banks may grant foreign exchange up to the equivalent of Esc 30,000 a transaction for most types of invisibles, including income on imported capital, and the licensing centers (established in continental Portugal and the Azores) of those banks may grant up to the equivalent of Esc 250,000, the individual ceilings vary- ing according to the type of operation. For tourism and other private travel they may grant to persons 18 years of age or over the equivalent of Esc 30,000 a person a year, Esc 22,500 for persons between 12 and 18, and Esc 15,000 for children under 12; in addition, tourists 341 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL may take out of the country Esc 5,000 in local currency for each trip. The export of larger amounts of domestic or foreign currency requires the prior authorization of the Bank of Portugal. Application must be made to the Bank of Portugal for exchange for payments of items not referred to above and for payments in excess of the above-mentioned limits. Under the provisions of the Foreign Investment Code, individual remittances of profits and dividends may be subject to phasing for a period of up to one year, depending on the prevailing balance of payments sit- uation. Phased amounts awaiting remittance may be deposited with domestic banks in accounts denominated in foreign exchange. Special provisions apply to situ- ations of serious external imbalance, or when the amount involved is so large as to be deemed to entail serious economic and f inanc ial disturbance to the coun- t ry; in such cases, individual remittances of profits and dividends may be suspended for a period of time to be determined by the Council of Ministers, but annual remittance of at least 20 per cent of the amount involved shall always be authorized. By the end of 1980, these special provisions were, however, not in force. Exports and Export Proceeds Prior registration is required for all exports valued at over Esc 5,000. Exports are effected on the basis of "bulletins" (similar to the import bu l le t ins). Export bulletins are issued freely, with few exceptions; the pr imary purpose of this procedure is to enforce the prescription of currency and surrender regulations. The export of a few commodities is restricted, mainly to assure adequate supplies to domestic industries and to avoid depletion of local resources. Personal baggage and exports of merchandise, the value of which does not exceed Esc 5,000, do not require a bu l le t in, pro- vided they are not expressly excluded f rom this exemp- tion. Re-exports of merchandise are exempt f rom prior registration, regardless of their value. Exporters are required to sell to an authorized bank the total amount of the export proceeds, w i th in the period and in the foreign currency stipulated in the export bulletin; the period for repatriation of export proceeds is, as a rule, fixed at four mon ths f rom the date of customs clearance. Should settlement for exports occur later than 180 days after customs clearance, the exchange rate prevailing on the one hundred and eightieth day would be applied. The Bank of Portugal may authorize the deduction of commission expenses abroad, and freight, insurance, or other charges f rom the total amount subject to surrender. Proceeds from Invisibles Portuguese residents may receive freely payments in foreign currency for invisibles from residents of coun- tries with which Portugal does not have bilateral pay- ments arrangements. Such receipts may be effected through credit institutions and do not require prior 342 authorization by the Bank of Portugal. Receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered. Nonresident travelers may bring in freely up to Esc 5,000 in domestic banknotes and any amount in banknotes, coin, and checks denominated in foreign currency for their travel expenses; imports of notes and coin by nonresidents for other purposes require authorization by the Bank of Portugal, and the re-export by nonresident travelers of foreign currency in excess of Esc 25,000 requires proof of prior impo r ta t ion of an equal or larger amoun t. Re tu rn ing residents may bring in up to Esc 5,000 in domestic banknotes and any amount in foreign bankno tes and coin. Authorized banks are not permitted to receive or to pay domestic or foreign banknotes or coin for settlement of external transactions. Capital All p r iva te capital transac t ions between Portugal and foreign countries are subject to prior au thor iza t ion by the Bank of Portugal, and for transactions exceeding Esc 200 million and with a ma tu r i ty of more than one year, the approval of the Minister of Finance also is required. Foreign direct investments in Portugal are authorized on the basis of the Foreign Investment Code. Such investments are permitted in all sectors except those which, under the general law, are closed to private enterprise corporations. An Exchange Risk Insu rance Fund provides exchange risk insurance aga inst losses caused by exchange rate movements in excess of 3 per cent on approved fore ign borrowing. The t r an s f er abroad of the proceeds f rom the l iqu i- dation of fo re ign investments is authorized a f ter five years, but for large amounts the Bank of Portugal may require that the t rans fer be phased over a period not exceeding five years. In such cases, exchange risk guarantees may be provided. Foreign loans and the ir repayments are authorized as necessary. Capital movements and t rans fe rs of assets are sub- ject to ceilings (up to which they are authorized auto- ma t ica l ly ), according to Portugal's reservations to the OECD code of l ibera l iza t ion of capital movements. For larger amounts authorizations may be granted on the merits of each case. Direct transactions in fore ign exchange between residents are prohibited. Gold Residents may hold gold in any fo rm in Portugal. The purchase, sale, import, export, or re-export of coined or uncoined gold, when carried out between Portugal and fore ign countries, is subject to special advance authorization from the Bank of Portugal. There is a free market for gold in Macao, in which both residents of Macao and nonresidents who are not resident in Portugal may freely trade among them- selves in bars, leaves, and coins; settlement must take place in patacas or U.S. dollars. In Macao, the Govern- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ment sets overall limits for imports of gold in any form other than jewelry; authority to carry out such imports is delegated to a concessionary enterprise. Imports and exports of gold, unless made by or on behalf of the Macao monetary authorities, require licenses issued by the Commissioner for Economy. Changes during 1980 January 8. By Decree No. 14/80, which revoked Decree No. 75/78, the period during which exporters were required to surrender foreign exchange proceeds was extended f rom 120 days to 180 days. January 10. The Bank of Portugal ceased to apply phasing requirements for transfer of profits and divi- dends in individual amounts exceeding US$250,000. February 12. The escudo was revalued by 6 per cent in effective terms as part of a series of measures PORTUGAL designed to reduce in f la t ion, while the mon th ly rate of depreciation was ma in ta ined at 0.75 per cent. April 2. The va lue of the Bank of Portugal's holdings of 689 tons of gold was revalued on the basis of a price of US$254.92 an ounce, w i th effect from Janua ry 1. June 16. The mon th ly rate of depreciation of the escudo in effective terms was lowered f rom 0.75 per cent to 0.50 per cent. June 25. The limit above which private external cap i tal t ransac t ions requires the approval of the Minister of Finance was raised to Esc 200 m i l l ion. July 9. Execu t ive Order No. 384/80 raised the l im i ts on fore ign exchange allowances for tour ist trave l. September 16. The Irish pound began to be quoted by the Bank of Portugal; this currency may only be used in transactions with Ireland. September 20. Decree-Law No. 387 /80 was issued, which abolished the Foreign Trade Control Committee. 343 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution QATAR (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Qatar is the Qatar Riyal, which is pegged to the SDR at QR 4.7619 = SDR 1. Qatar has established margins of 7.25 per cent around this rate. The Qatar Monetary Agency sets daily market rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, and the pound sterling. On December 31, 1980 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were QR 3.6385 and QR3.6415, respectively, per US$1. The commercial banks' exchange rates for trans- actions in U.S. dollars are based on the Monetary Agency's buying and selling rates. Spreads outside these rates may va ry according to the customer and the size of the transaction: a spread of 0.87 dirhams is applied to large transactions and one of 2.87 dirhams is usually applied to smaller transactions. The commercial banks' buying and selling rates for other currencies are based on the Monetary Agency's rates for the U.S. dollar and market rates for the currency concerned against the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Qatar formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, with effect from June 4, 1973. Administration of Control The Qatar Monetary Agency is the exchange control authority, but there is at present no exchange control legislation. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. No other prescription of currency require- ments are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by resi- dents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Also prohibited are imports of pig meat and its derivatives. Imports of alcoholic beverages, firearms, ammunition, and certain drugs are subject to licensing for reasons of health or public policy. Otherwise, imports are not restricted. There are no restrictions on paymen ts for permitted imports. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Otherwise, all commodities may be exported freely. There are no requirements attached to receipts f rom exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatri- ated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments may not be made to or received f rom Israel and South Africa. Otherwise, there are no l im i ta t ions on payments for and proceeds from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents, although paymen ts may not be made to or received f rom Israel and South Africa. Foreign par- ticipation in certain industrial enterprises is prohibited unless Qatar nationals control at least 51 per cent of the shares. For major industrial projects it is govern- ment policy to assume 70 per cent ownership. Gold The monetary authorities and all other residents and nonresidents, including private persons, may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, without a license and without payment of customs duty or tax, import and export gold in any form. Transactions involving Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Changes during 1980 January 5. The Qatar riyal was adjusted upward f rom QR3 .7065 = US$1 to QR3 .6970 = US$1. Subsequently, it was adjusted to QR 3.6790 = US$1 on Janua ry 16, to QR 3.6600 = US$1 on May 29, and to QR 3.6415 = US$1 on June 14. March 14. Importation of pig meat and its deriva- tives, including canned pork products, was prohibited. 344 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement1 The currency of Romania is the Romanian Leu. The official rate for the U.S. dollar quoted by the National Bank of Romania is lei 4.47 per US$1, and the official rate for the U.S.S.R. ruble is lei 6.67 per rub 1. The National Bank quotes rates for 15 other currencies defined as "freely convertible,"2 and for the Egyptian pound, the Finnish markka, the Greek drachma, the Indian rupee, the Israel shekel, the Portuguese escudo, the Spanish peseta, the Turkish lira, and the Yugoslav dinar, based on the rates for these currencies against the U.S. dollar in the countries concerned. For cur- rencies of countries other than members of the CMEA,3 Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, exchange rates are based on the ratio between the currency concerned and the leu through the off ic ial rate against a third currency. With m inor exceptions, the official exchange rates are used for p lann ing and account- ing purposes only.4 For exchange rate purposes, payments for insurance and transportation connected with trade are considered as trade transactions. With the exception of capital transactions, non trade exchange transactions with coun- tries other than the CMEA countries, Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea are carried out at the official rate plus a p rem ium of 168.46 per cent, resulting in rate of lei 12 per US$1.5 The purchase or sale of foreign exchange at this rate for private use is subject to a bank charge of 1 per cent. Capital trans- actions with countries other than the CMEA countries, Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea are settled at lei 18 per US$1. For individual travel to nonsocialist countries and for certain other expenditures abroad, such as personal subscriptions to periodicals and legal penalties, a rate of lei 24 per US$1 is applied. For nontrade transactions with the CMEA 1 On Janua ry 1, 1981 a new law incorpora t ing an exchange and price reform was adopted. According to this law, a un i fo rm ra te of exchange is to be established annually; for 1981 the rate was set at lei 15 per US$1. This rate of exchange would be the average of rates of exchange explicitly established for specific categories of imports and exports. For the la t ter, domestic prices would be the fo re ign price times the specific exchange ra te applicable. For other t rade transac- tions, the u n i f o rm ra te of exchange would apply. The exchange ra te for t rade w i th member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA ), Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea was changed to lei 15 per transferable ruble. On Febru- ary 16, 1981 the p rem ium over the official rate with respect to nontrade transactions with countries other than the CMEA countries, A lban ia, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea was changed to 146.09 per cent, resulting in a rate of lei 11 per US$1. 2 Aus tra l ian dollars, Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian f rancs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Luxembourg francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 3 The par t ic ipan ts in the CMEA are Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hunga ry, Mongolia, Poland, Roman ia, U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. 4 Beginning f rom Janua ry 1981, the official exchange rates ceased to be used for p lann ing and accounting purposes. 5 On February 16, 1981 the premium was changed to 146.09 per cent, resulting in a ra te of lei 11 per US$1. countries, Albania, and the Democratic People's Repub- lic of Korea exchange rates are established by special agreements; for transactions with the U.S.S.R. this rate is lei 8.30 per rub 1. Some trade transactions are subject to a price equali- zation system. Excluded from this system are imports of consumer goods, machinery, and equipment (includ- ing complex equ ipmen t ), assemblies and subassemblies, and spare parts for investment projects, the domestic prices of which are determined by converting the for- eign price into lei at lei 18 per US$ 1, to which customs duties are added. For all other imports (basic raw materials and other materials and assemblies, subassem- blies, and spare par ts for p roduc t ion) and for all exports, a price equalization system applies. Trade transactions with CMEA countries, Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea are settled in either trans- ferable or "clearing" rubles at a un i fo rm settlement coefficient yielding lei 18 per transferab le or "clearing" ruble.6 An accoun t ing rate of lei 18 per US$1 is used for the payment and repayment of foreign loans taken up or granted by the Roman ian Bank for Foreign Trade, other o f f ic ial en t i t ies, and Roman ian enterprises. Administration of Control Foreign trade is a state monopoly. Import and export transactions are effected by authorized indus tr ial cen- trals, produc ing enterprises, and foreign trade enter- prises. Import and export transactions are subject to authorizations gran ted by the M in is try of Foreign Trade and International Economic Cooperation. In the issuing of authorizations the provisions of ex is t ing trade agree- ments are taken in to account. Foreign currency pro- ceeds from exports are sold to the Roman ian Bank for Foreign Trade; fore ign currency required for import payments is purchased f rom that bank. Exchange con- trol is administered by the Ministry of Finance, the Na t ional Bank, and the Roman ian Bank for Foreign Trade. Prescription of Currency Payments to and f rom countries with which Romania has bilateral payments agreements are made in cur- rencies and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agreements.7 If no agreement exists, settle- ment is u sua l ly made in a convertible currency. Certain commercial se t t lemen ts with Turkey are made in U.S. 6 On J a n u a ry 1, 1981 this ra te became lei 15 per clearing ruble. 7 The coun t r i es w i th wh ich bilateral p aym en ts a r rangemen ts were in force as of December 31, 1980 were Albania, Bangladesh, Brazil, People's Repub l ic of China, Colombia, Ecuador, Finland, Ghana, Greece, Ind ia, I ran, Democra t ic People's Repub l ic of Korea, Lebanon, and Viet N am. Se t t lemen ts w i th Bu lga r ia, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Ge rman Democ ra t ic Repub l ic, Hunga ry, Mongolia, Poland, and U.S.S.R. take p lace t h r o u gh the mu l t i la te ral paymen ts system w i th in the In t e rn a t ion al Bank for Economic Cooperation. Certain settle- ments with S ingapore also take place th rough special accounts. 345 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA dollars under a credit agreement. Permitted foreign payments may not be made in lei. Nonresident Accounts Foreign ju r id ical and physical persons may maintain accounts with the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade or with the National Bank. These accounts are of three kinds: A-Accounts are ma in ta ined in convertible cur- rency or in lei obtained for convertible currencies, from the selling of precious metals, coins, or ingots, other than silver; B-Accounts are maintained in nonconvertible currencies quoted by the National Bank, in clearing currency, or in lei received from the conversion of such currencies. Transactions in any ind iv idual B-Account may be effected in only one such currency. C-Accounts are maintained in lei received from legal sources. A-Accounts may be debited for payments abroad in any currency, for payments within the country, and for transfers to any other A, B, or C-Account. B-Accounts may be debited for all payments abroad in the curren- cies f rom which the funds were derived and for pay- ments within Romania. C-Accounts may be debited only for domestic transactions. The transactions per- mitted for the different accounts do not require any further authorization. Nonresidents may also keep accounts in lei with the Savings and Consignment Bank. The Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade may accept from nonresident customers time deposits in convertible for- eign currencies, on which interest is paid at rates pre- vailing in in terna t ional markets. Romanian citizens, including Romanians working abroad who transfer their savings to Romania, may open foreign currency accounts with the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade or the National Bank. The deposits may be used for payments in foreign currency, at home or abroad, or for exchange into lei at the official rate plus premium (lei 12 per US$1). The entire amount of foreign exchange received from abroad for special purposes for the benefit of Romanian citi- zens (such as the building or purchasing of a house, the purchase of an automobile, the purchase of other goods or services whose prices are expressed in foreign currency, travel abroad, and other purposes) may be used by the recipients. In the case of certain other for- eign exchange receipts from abroad, such as inheritances, donations, assistance, or family maintenance, a propor- tion may be deposited in a foreign currency account and the rest must be converted into lei at the official rate plus premium. Imports and Exports The general policy targets for foreign trade are set at the central level. Import and export plans are drawn up by the basic economic units, production enterprises, and industrial centrals on the basis of current and long- term needs. The foreign trade plan specifies only a limited number of goods considered of particular impor- tance for the national economy, especially raw materials. 346 The total planned trade does not separate importing or exporting countries but distinguishes between the clear- ing area and the convertible currency area, according to the manner of settlement of exchange payments and receipts. Import and export transactions are carried out on the basis of authorizations issued by the Ministry of For- eign Trade and International Economic Cooperation, for each commodity or group of commodities. The authorizations are not restrictive or discriminatory and may be issued, at the request of foreign trade units, for all types of goods, regardless of origin. The Ministry may take measures to curb imports with a view to equilibrating the balance of payments, for the protection of public health, for reasons of national defense and the security of the State, etc., in accordance with the provisions of the GATT. As a rule, annual import authorizations expressed in value terms are issued to individual importing enterprises as a lump sum or for a single kind of product. The authorization stipulates whether import payments are to be made in convertible currency or under bilateral payments arrangements, and, in the latter case, the country is also specified. Export proceeds must be sold to the Romanian Bank for For- eign Trade. Imports for investment in complex installations (assemblies, subassemblies, machinery, equipment, and spare par ts) are delivered to the buying units at domestic prices which are equal to the customs value (calculated by multiplying the external price by lei 18 per US$1) plus customs duties. Imports of consumer goods are delivered to the commercial purchasing units at retail prices less the commercial discount. The difference between prices so derived and prices calculated on the basis of customs value plus customs duties and, in some cases, the turnover tax, is reflected in the financial accounts of the importing foreign trade unit. Imports are subject to customs duties, although duties are not applied to 121 tariff positions and subpositions. Customs duties are temporarily not being levied on imports of raw materials, assemblies, subassemblies, and spare parts for production, repair, and mainte- nance, totaling about 500 tariff positions and subposi- tions. The customs tariff is nondiscriminatory. Invisibles All transactions in invisibles not connected with for- eign trade transactions require general or individual authorization given by either the Ministry of Finance or the appropriate ministry. For most categories of payments in respect of invisibles, foreign exchange is made available automatically once the transaction has been authorized. For travel outside the socialist coun- tries an exchange allocation is provided up to the equivalent of US$70 a trip for each adult for one trip. In addition, tourist agencies may organize group or individual trips payable in lei. Receipts f rom trans- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution actions in invisibles must be sold to the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade, and the foreign currency required for payments in respect of such transactions is bought from the same bank. Receipts in foreign currencies from travelers are converted at lei 12 per US$1. Travelers with permanent residence in nonsocialist countries must convert at least US$10 a person a day (or the equivalent in other "acceptable" currencies)8 during their stay in Romania. This requirement does not apply to (a) holders of diplomatic and service pass- ports and their fam i l ies; (b) newspaper and radio and television correspondents accredited to Romania and their fam i l ies; (c) persons studying in Romania and their spouses; (d) permanent foreign personnel of for- eign firms or agencies authorized to operate in Romania (including joint ventures) and their families; (e) guests of socialist units and of other juridical persons in Romania, as well as of international organizations hav- ing their headquarters in Romania; (f) children under 14; (g) teachers visiting Romania under agreements for cultural, technical, and scientific cooperation and their families; (h) persons who can be shown to have made payments for tourist services; (i) foreign personnel in assembly works or providing technical assistance in Romania and their families; (j) persons of Romanian origin having foreign citizenship or who are stateless; (k) Romanian citizens possessing a valid Romanian passport who are domiciled abroad; (1) persons resi- dent abroad w i thout a valid Romanian passport, but who have not renounced their Roman ian citizenship; and (m) parents, spouses, and children of persons in categories ( j ) - ( l ). Foreign diplomats and tourists, as well as Roman ian citizens legally holding fore ign cur- rencies, may purchase certain domestically produced or imported consumer goods in specialized shops, against payment in convertible currencies. The import and 8 The acceptable currencies, in addition to the U.S. dollar, are Australian dollars, Au s t r ian schillings, Belgian f ranc s, Canad ian dol- lars, Danish k ron e r, deutsche ma rk, Finnish m a r k k a a, French f rancs, Greek d rachmas. Ind ian rupees, Israel shekels, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Lux embou rg f r an c s, Netherlands guilders, Norweg ian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss f rancs, Tu rk i sh liras, and Yugoslav dinars. ROMANIA export of Romanian notes and coin by travelers are prohibited. Capital All inward and outward transfers of foreign exchange must be authorized by the Ministry of Finance. Out- ward transfers of funds belonging to resident physical persons are not normally permitted. For certain estab- lished categories, such as inheritances, reciprocal agree- ments have been concluded with a number of countries providing for automatic authorization of transfers of specified amounts to and from Romania. The Foreign Trade Law provides for the establish- ment of jo int ventures in Romania and abroad by Romanian economic organizations. Foreigners are also allowed to invest capital in joint ventures in Romania, up to 49 per cent of the total capital of the company concerned. The Foreign Trade Law and implementing decrees guaran tee the repatriation in foreign currency of the capital, and the transfer in foreign currency of profits af ter taxes. By agreement, the accounts of joint ventures may be kept in an agreed currency. Gold The National Bank has sole authority to purchase or sell gold in any manner, at home or abroad. The Bank, in turn, authorizes certain juridical persons to hold gold, to use it, and to engage in gold transactions. The ownership by physical persons, for domestic and per- sonal use, of jewelry and of artistic and cultural objects of gold is not restricted. Changes during 1980 January 1. An exchange rate of lei 12 per US$1 began to be applied to nontrade transactions with the People's Republic of China. July 28. An agreement was signed between Romania and the EC dealing with trade in industrial products other th an iron and steel and textiles. In addition, an agreement was signed setting up a joint commission to review Romanian-EC trade and to adopt measures on the fu r ther development of the economic relations between Romania and the EC. 347 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA (Position on December 31, 2980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Rwanda is the Rwanda Franc, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar at RF 92.84 = US$1. The official buying and selling rates are RF91.91 and RF93 .77, respectively, per US$1. For certain other currencies1 that are officially quoted, the daily middle rates are derived from the fixed rate with the dollar and the exchange rate between the dollar and the currency in question two business days earlier, calculated as the cross rate between the dollar value of the SDR and the value of the SDR in the national market of the cur- rency concerned. The average rate for the Bu rundi franc, which also is officially quoted, is the ratio between the fixed rate for the U.S. dollar in Kigali and the fixed rate for the U.S. dollar in Bu jumbura. The off ic ia l ly quoted rates for the zai're and for the Kenya shilling, the Tanzania shilling, and the Uganda shilling are derived from the dollar value of the SDR two days earlier and the fixed relationship of these currencies to the SDR. The buying arid selling rates for all curren- cies are set 1 per cent below and 1 per cent above the middle rate, respectively. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions and for- eign trade is vested in the National Bank of Rwanda (the central b a n k ); authority to carry out some of these transactions is delegated to authorized banks. Exchange policy and foreign trade policy are, in principle, deter- mined by the General Foreign Exchange and Licensing Committee, which comprises the Minister of Finance, the Governor of the National Bank, and five other members. However, this Committee is inoperative. Prescription of Currency The National Bank has concluded agreements with the central banks of neighboring countries and Kenya, under which settlements are made through reciprocal accounts in convertible domestic currency. Balances on such accounts are periodically transferable. Otherwise, payments for imports must be made in the currency approved by the National Bank, which, in principle, is the currency of the country of origin. Payments f rom any country may be received in Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. dollars. Foreign payments, except in border trade, are generally made by bank transfer; the National Bank may, however, authorize other means of payment such as checks or telegraphic transfers. Exchange transac- tions with South Africa are prohibited. 1 Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, deutsche ma rk, French f rancs, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. 348 Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. Imports of a few types of goods, such as narcotics, explosives, and weapons, are prohibited from all sources for reasons of public policy. -All imports valued at over RF 100,000 c. & f. Kigali require licenses, as do those valued at less than RF 100,000 c. & f. Kigali, if payment is required in foreign exchange. No license is required for the import of merchandise valued at or below RF 100,000 c. & f. Kigali, when paid for in Rwanda francs. Imports of household and personal effects of nonresidents and resident expatriates are also exempt. The National Bank levies a fee of 1 per cent of the f.o.b. value for the va l ida t ion of import licenses. Before orders are placed, applications for import licenses must be submitted to the National Bank through an authorized bank. The approval of an import license application constitutes an au thor iza t ion to obtain the required foreign exchange. The National Bank grants global import licenses for certain essential commodities and for limited amounts to individual firms in order to ensure their continuous operation; these are valid for three months. Licenses are examined at the National Bank to avoid overin- voicing. Any importer applying for a license must do so on the appropriate form and state that when paying for the imports he will not exceed the credit line nor- ma l ly allowed under the regulations. Prior to June 30 of each year, all importers must provide the foreign exchange authorities with ( 1) balance sheets and income statements for the past three years and ( 2) a declaration of the amount of taxes paid dur ing each of these years, with supporting documents. Dealers in imported auto- mobiles must be registered as such by the National Bank. At the time of obtaining an import license, the importing dealer must deposit an amount equivalent to the c.i.f. Kigali value a f ter customs clearance for (1) automobiles over 11 horsepower, and (2) automobiles having 11 horsepower or less but whose c.i.f. value is over RF 1.8 m i l l ion. Only used automobiles that are less than three years old can be imported, and the importer has to assure the ava i lab i l i ty of spare parts. Except as stated above, there are no restrictions as to currency of payment or permitted origin or place of shipment, but control is exercised to ensure that pay- ments are made to the supplier or shipper. Imports whose f.o.b value on the pro forma invoice is greater than RF 1.5 million are inspected by the General Super- intendence Company of Geneva for quality and quantity in the coun t ry of or ig in2 prior to shipment, and at the a Except for impo r ts f r om A fgh an i s t an, A lban ia, B u r u n d i, Cam- eroon, Cen t ral A f r i c an Republic, Chad, People's Republic of China, Comoros, Djibouti, Gabon, Gu inea, I raq, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Liberia, Libyan A rab Jamah ir iya, Mali, Niger, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Somalia, South A f r ica, Syrian A rab Republic, Tanzania, Uganda, U.S.S.R., Upper Volta, Viet N am, Yemen A rab Republic, People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, Zai're, and Zimbabwe. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution same time prices are verified. Import licenses must be presented when the goods are cleared through customs. The number and date of expiration must be entered on the customs clearance form, a copy of which is then sent to the National Bank. For imports of products originating in member countries of the Economic Com- mun i ty of the Great Lakes Countries (CEPGL), import licenses are replaced by import notices. The Rwanda investment code grants special concessions to enterprises under a contractual arrangement, which may imply exemption from import duties on certain types of equip- ment. Payments for Invisibles The prior approval of the National Bank is required for all payments for invisibles. Foreign exchange is sold by the National Bank, through the authorized banks, for (1) transport and other expenses (except insurance) connected with imports and exports; (2) transfers of the salaries or wages earned by foreign nationals employed in Rwanda under contract (net of taxes, net of the employee's share of social security contributions, and an amount for local expenses equivalent to either 40 per cent of net pay af ter tax —with a m in imum of RF 3 5,000—or a lump sum of RF 60,000 plus RF 10,000 for each dependent in Rwanda, whichever is higher); and (3) transfers of the net earned income of foreign nationals who are self-employed or engaged in a profession or established as independent traders. A fee of RF 350 is levied for a transfer authorization. Payments in respect of transport charges on imports cannot be made until imported goods have been cleared through customs (except in cases of payment by means of documen tary credit payable on load ing). Insurance on imports and exports must be taken out locally, with the Societe Nationale d'Assurance du Rwanda (SONARWA ). Net profits and dividends due to non- residents may, in principle, be remitted abroad in full, subject to the right of the National Bank to prescribe their t rans fer in installments. Transfers of rent income in favor of nonresidents and resident expatriates are not allowed. The purchase of tickets for travel abroad requires the prior approval of the National Bank. Purchases of foreign exchange for travel purposes are authorized on an ad hoc basis. Remittances for payments for certain other invisibles may also be authorized on an ad hoc basis. Travelers may take out domestic banknotes up to RF 5,000. Residents require authorization by the National Bank to take out foreign banknotes. Nonresi- dent travelers may take out any amount in foreign bank- notes declared upon entry less the amount of their expenditures in Rwanda. Commercial banks are not permitted to export domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. All exports, RWANDA except trade samples, personal and household effects of travelers, and merchandise valued at less than RF 20,000, are subject to prior declaration. Declarations for all exports must be presented to the National Bank through an authorized bank for certification, for which a fee of RF 350 is levied. A declaration is valid for three months, but extensions may be granted by the National Bank, which also reserves the right to determine the conditions for certification. For exports to Burundi, Kenya, Tan- zania, Uganda, and Zaire, payment must be collected not later than 30 days af ter the goods have left the country; for exports to all other countries, this period is 120 days. All exchange proceeds f rom exports must be surren- dered to an authorized bank within 8 days f rom their collection. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the authorized banks within 8 days f rom their collection. The collection of claims resulting from services per- formed for nonresidents must take place within 30 days of the date on wh ich the claim falls due. Travelers may bring in up to RF 5,000 in domestic banknotes and any amount in fore ign banknotes. Commercial banks are not permitted to import domestic banknotes. Capital All ou twa rd t rans fe rs of capital require the prior approval of the National Bank. Such approval is rarely given unless the t rans fer relates to a fore ign investment in Rwanda that is covered by the Investment Law or to the personal effects sof a foreign national returning to his own country. Re transfer guarantees, as well as an exchange rate gua ran tee, may be given by the National Bank in respect of short-term capital inflows remaining in Rwanda for at least two months. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Rwanda for num isma t ic purposes only. With this excep- tion, residents other than the mone ta ry authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry. Imports and exports of gold require licenses and are normally made only by the monetary authorities. Changes during 1980 April 18. Exchange and trade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe ( fo rme r ly Rhodesia) were lifted. April 29. The National Bank introduced a regulation requiring the submission of a copy of the bill of lading before au thor iz ing payment for imports. September 4. The National Bank introduced a regu- lation authorizing official dealership in the importation of used automobiles and specifying that only used auto- mobiles th at were not more than three years old could be imported and that the importer had to assure the availability of spare parts. 349 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. LUCIA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of St. Lucia is the East Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the East Caribbean Cur- rency Au thor i ty. The East Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 = US$1. On December 31, 1980 the buy ing and sell- ing rates for the U.S. dollar were EC$2.6648 and EC$2.7169, respectively, per US$1. The Currency Authority also quotes daily rates for the Canad ian dol- lar and the pound sterling. St. Lucia fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom May 30, 1980. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and applies to all currencies. Export licensing is required for a range of p r ima ry products. Import licenses are issued by the M in is try of Trade. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CAR i c oM )2 must be made either in the currency of the CARICOM coun t ry concerned or in East Caribbean dollars. Settlements w i th residents of other countries may be made either in any foreign cu r rency3 or in East Caribbean dollars. Where jus t if ied by the na tu re of the transac t ion, approval may be given to make payment for goods and services in a currency different f rom that of the coun try to which payment is to be made. Nonresident Accounts External Accounts may be opened for nonres iden ts with the approval of the M in is try of Finance and may be maintained in any currency requested. These accounts may be credited with proceeds f rom the sale of foreign currencies and with transfers f rom other External Accounts but not with payments by residents. They may be debited for payments to residents payable in East Caribbean dollars, and af ter approval by the Ministry of Finance, for the cost of fore ign exchange required for travel purposes. Resident companies may be allowed to open External Accounts (in East Carib- bean currency or the currency of rece ip t), provided that deposits to the accounts are restricted to funds received from overseas and that drawings on the accounts are for payments abroad. 1 The East Caribbean dollar is also the cu r rency of An t igu a, Domi- nica, G renada, Mon tse r ra t, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, and St. Vincent and Grenadines. 2 The CARICOM coun tr ies are An t igua, Barbados, Belize, Dom in ica, G renada, Guy an a, Jama ica, Mon tse r ra t, St. K i t ts-Nev is-Angu i l la, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and Grenadines, and Tr in idad and Tobago. 3 Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the East Carribbean dollar. 350 Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom South A f r ica are prohibited. Most goods may be freely imported under open general license. Certain other commodities requ ire i n d i v i d u al licenses, unless imported f rom CARICOM countries. Pay- men ts for au thor ized impor ts are perm i t ted upon app l ica t ion and subm iss ion of documen ta ry evidence. Advance p aym en ts for imports requ ire pr ior app roval by the M in i s t ry of Finance. Impor ts of live an ima ls, m i lk, mea t, fish, eggs, fer t i- lizers, and most ag r icu l tu ral and indu s t r ial mach ine ry are exempt f rom import duties. Other exempt items inc lude most imports f rom CARICOM and East Carib- bean Common Market countries, impor ts under indus- t r ial incentive legislation, and items exempted und er the Hotel A ids Ord inance. Import du t ies range f rom 5 per cent to 35 per cent and are scheduled to be b rought in to l ine w i th the CARICOM common ex te rnal ta r i ff by 1983; duties on bay rum and firearms are at a h igher rate of 70 per cent. Imports of fe r t i l izer are subject to a stamp duty of % of 1 per cent of the c.i.f. value. All other imports, except items on the price control list, are subject to s tamp du ty at 6 per cent of the c .i .f. value. Payments for Invisibles Res iden ts may purchase fo re ign exchange f r om au thor ized banks up to the equ iva lent of EC$ 1,500 a year for t ravel outside the East Caribbean Currency Au tho r i ty area; however, this limit may be exceeded w i th permission f rom the M in is t ry of Finance. For travel w i th in the CARICOM area us ing CARICOM travelers checks (wh i ch are denom ina ted in Tr in idad and Tobago c u r r e n c y ), the basic allowance is EC$2,000 a year. There are no limits on the amount of local currency that may be taken out of the coun t ry. Profits may be rem i t ted in f u l l, subject to con f i rma t ion by the Com- missioner of In l and Revenue of reg is tra t ion for income tax purposes. However, in cases where p ro f i ts are deemed to be excessive, the M in is t ry of Finance reserves the right to phase rem i t tances over a reasonable period of time. Foreign exchange is made available for all other transac t ions in invisibles. Insu rance p rem iums are subject to tax, with a h igher rate levied on nonresident insurers. Exports and Export Proceeds For certain commodities, no licenses are required for export to any des t ina t ion. Proceeds f r om exports must, in principle, be surrendered. A d u ty of 0.4 cent per pound is levied on exports of bananas. A special fee of EC$0.20 per barrel is applied on re-exports of petroleum. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. LUCIA Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invisibles must, in principle, be surrendered. Travelers to St. Lucia may bring in freely notes and coin denomi- nated in East Caribbean dollars or in any fore ign cur- rency. Foreign currency coin is not normally exchanged. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange con- trol approval. The purchase by residents of fore ign currency securities and of real estate situated abroad for private purposes is not normally permitted. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances, to nonresidents require approval, which is normally granted provided that local tax liabilities have been discharged. Sale of property is subject to tax levied at a higher rate in the case of nonresident sellers. Gold There are no restrictions on impo r ts of gold. Changes during 1980 March 24. Among the tax changes announced in the budget were a tax on the sale of property levied at a higher rate in cases of nonres ident sellers, a tax on in su rance prem iums levied at a higher ra te on non- resident insurers, and an increase in the flat rate of stamp du ty on imports f rom 5 per cent to 6 per cent. May 30. The Government of St. Lucia no t if ied the Fund that it fo rma l ly accepted the ob l iga t ions of A r t i- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. 351 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of St. Vincent and the^Grenadines is the East Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the East Caribbean Currency Authority. The East Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at EC$2.70 = US$1. On December 31, 1980 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were EC$2.6949 and EC$2.7084, respectively, per US$1. The Currency Authority also quotes daily rates for the Cana- dian dollar and the pound sterling. The sale of foreign exchange by commercial banks is subject to a 1 per cent tax. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and applies to all countries outside the East Caribbean Currency Authority area. The Ministry dele- gates to authorized dealers the authority to approve some import payments and certain other payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM) 2 must be made either through External Accounts (in East Caribbean dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country con- cerned. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency3 or through an External Account in East Caribbean dollars. Nonresident Accounts External Accounts may be opened for nonresidents with the authorization of the Ministry of Finance. They are maintained in East Caribbean dollars and may be credited with inward remittances in foreign currency and with transfers from other External Accounts. Except with the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance, East Caribbean currency, foreign currency notes and coin, and payments by residents may not be credited to External Accounts. These accounts may, however, be freely debited for payments abroad and to residents, without the prior authorization of the Minis- try of Finance. Quarterly statements of the accounts must be submitted to the Ministry of Finance by the operating banks. Foreign Currency Accounts Accounts denominated in foreign currencies may be opened by nonresidents with the authorization of the Ministry of Finance; such accounts may be credited only with f u n ds in the form of remittances from overseas. 1 The East Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Antigua, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, and St. Lucia. 2 The CARICOM countries are An t igua, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3 Foreign currencies include all currencies other than the East Caribbean dollar. 352 Except with the prior permission of the Ministry of Finance, remittances in East Caribbean currency, for- eign currency notes and coin, and payments by residents may not be credited to a foreign currency account. These accounts may be debited for payments abroad without prior authorization by the M in is try of Finance. Quarterly statements of the accounts must be submitted to the M in is try of Finance by the operating banks. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom South Afr ica are prohibited. Imports are divided into three categories: most goods may be freely imported; imports of some goods which compete with typical exports of other countries in the CARICOM and the East Caribbean Common Marke t4 are subject to licenses; and imports of goods which compete w i th locally made products are prohibited in some cases. Paymen ts for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence and, when required, of the license. Advance payments for imports require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. Most imports are subject to a stamp tax of 5 per cent of the c.i.f. value. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for travel, medical treatment, education, subscription and membership fees, and gifts are subject to limits. All other payments exceeding EC$50 require approval by the Ministry of Finance. Residents may purchase foreign exchange f rom authorized banks up to the equivalent of EC$2,500 a year for travel outside the East Caribbean Currency Authority area; for busi- ness travel, additional allocations of foreign exchange may be made available up to an amount not exceeding EC$6,000 a year. The above allocations can be increased with the authorization of the Ministry of Finance. Purchases of foreign currency to cover expenses for medical treatment abroad are authorized by the M in is try of Finance upon presentation of a written statement by a local medical practitioner of the need for the treatment. The amount approved is based on the actual cost of the trea tmen t. The amount of local currency that can be taken out by travelers is limited to EC$50 a trip. Students attending educational institutions overseas are permitted to purchase foreign exchange to cover the cost of tuition and living expenses. Documentary proof of acceptance and attendance at the institution is required. Transfers of funds within the East Caribbean Currency Authority area require authorization of the M in is try of Finance in cases of individual transactions exceeding EC$2,000. 4 The East Caribbean Common Market is composed of Antigua, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and Grenadines. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Afr ica are prohibited. Specific licenses are required for the export to any destination of some agricultural goods included in the CARICOM marketing protocol and in the CARICOM Oils and Fats Agreement. The licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade, which in some cases has delegated the power to the St. Vincent Agricultural Marketing Board. Export proceeds must be surrendered. A 3 per cent export du ty is levied on bananas, arrowroot, starch, and ginger. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds f rom transactions in invis- ibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in freely notes and coin denominated in East Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. Capital All outward capital t rans fe rs require exchange control approval. The purchase by residents of foreign currency securities and of real estate situated abroad for private purposes is not normally permitted. On presentation of documentary proof that permanent residence is being taken in a foreign country, emigrants may apply to the M in is t ry of Finance to transfer funds abroad based on the value of assets held in St. Vincent. Transfer of sums exceeding EC$20,000 a year is not norma l ly per- mitted. The transfer of proceeds from sales of assets ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES held by emigrants already resident in a foreign country is also limited to EC$20,000 a year. Direct investment in St. Vincent by nonresidents is not subject to exchange control. The remittance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds f rom, such invest- ment is permitted, subject to the discharge of any liabili- ties related to the investment. The approval of the M in is try of Finance is required for nonresidents to borrow in St. Vincent. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Gold Residents are permitted to acquire and hold gold coin for num isma t ic purposes only. Under license by the M in is try of Finance, imports of gold are permitted for indus tr ial purposes only. Changes during 1980 May 30. Automobiles exceeding 1,600 cubic centi- meters were added to the schedule of items subject to consump t ion tax (25 per cent ad va lo rem ). June 6. The importation of several items, previously prohibited unless originating from a CARICOM country, was now permitted, subject to an import license. These included honey, grapes, apples, pears, and vegetables and f ru it prepared with or preserved in vinegar. The importation of processed peanuts was prohibited, unless originating in a CARICOM country. 353 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sao Tome and Principe is the Sao Tome and Principe Dobra, which is pegged to the SDR at Db 45.25 = SDR 1. The middle rate quoted by the National Bank of Sao Tome and Principe (the central b ank) for the dobra against the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is determined on the basis of the daily calculation of the U.S. dollar-SDR rate. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies are also determined on the basis of the Fund's daily calculations of the exchange rates of these currencies with respect to the SDR. On December 31, 1980 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Db 35.0353 and Db 35.9223, respectively, per US$1. Charges on purchases and sales of foreign exchange are influenced by the relatively high processing cost with the rest of the world, reflecting the limited com- munication facilities. Foreign exchange transactions are divided into three categories for the purposes of these charges —namely, import payments, transactions in for- eign checks, and collection of export proceeds. On import-related exchange transactions, the National Bank charges a commission of 1 per cent of value and a post- age levy of Db 20 for each transaction; in addition, there is a stamp duty of 1 per cent on import bills and of 3 per cent on import letters of credit. (Import financ- ing other than by letters of credit is not subject to the 3 per cent stamp du ty .) For foreign checks for collec- tion, the National Bank applies a commission in favor of the collecting foreign correspondents, amounting to the equivalent of US$6 for funds ranging between US$100 and US$1,000 and the equivalent of US$10 for amounts in excess of US$1,000; in addition, the National Bank charges a postage levy of Db 15 for each transac- tion, together with a stamp duty of Db 3 for amounts not exceeding the equivalent of Db 1,000 and Db 2 for each Db 500 or part thereof above the equivalent of Db 1,000. For collection of export proceeds, the National Bank charges, in favor of foreign correspond- ents, a commission margin that varies according to the value of the transaction; there is also a separate commission of 1 per cent, and a postage levy at a mini- mum of Db 50 for each transaction. Administration of Control All fore ign exchange transactions are under the con- trol of the National Bank. The exchange controls are applied flexibly, and exceptions to the stated limits are permitted on an ad hoc basis. All foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered to the National Bank, and all exchange payments must be made through that Bank. Import and export licenses are granted by the Directorate of External Commerce. 354 Prescription of Currency The National Bank may prescribe the currency in which foreign exchange transactions shall be made. There are bilateral payments agreements with Cape Verde and the German Democratic Republic. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to licensing. Licenses are extended in accordance with Advance Import Registra- tion Bulletins, which are valid for four months, but may be extended, if necessary. The license specifies the quan t i ty and the c.i.f. and f.o.b. values of the product to be imported. It also specifies the currency of settle- ment. Licenses granted have to be presented to the Na t ional Bank within 15 days in order to receive foreign exchange cover. Imports of some products, such as beans, corn and corn flour, fuels, edible oils, meat, milk, rice, salt, soap, sugar, and wheat are a state monopoly and are imported exclusively by the External Commerce Company. Licenses are granted under the annual import plan, tak ing into account the availability of foreign exchange and the country's supply and economic devel- opment requirements. Prepayment of imports is permitted only through the opening of letters of credit. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are approved according to limitations established by the National Bank and in accordance with specific rules under Decree-Law No. 65/79 of December 26, 1979. The amounts per- mitted to be transferred in respect of each item are fixed in an annual plan, according to the following priorities: ( 1) transfers for medical treatment abroad when local facilities are insufficient; (2) transfers of monthly remit- tances to students; ( 3) transfers of earnings when fixed in agreements established with the Government; and (4) t rans fe rs for payment of fares, freight, costs of communication with foreign countries, etc. Purchases of foreign exchange by residents for tourism are strictly limited, although airfares may be paid in domestic cur- rency. Transfers of profits by foreign companies estab- lished in Sao Tome and Principe prior to independence have been temporarily suspended. There are no limita- tions on remittances for subscriptions to periodicals, books, etc., or on the payments of interest on external debt, provided the existence of the debt can be estab- lished. Foreign exchange allowances for travel on business of national interest are granted up to a maximum of Db 1,000 for each day of travel, Db 15,000 a trip, and Db 50,000 a year. However, these limits may be exceeded if there is adequate justification. Foreign exchange allowances for medical purposes are permitted up to Db 30,000 in the first month and Db 15,000 in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution each of the ensuing two months, if adequate justification is provided. Further transfers are decided on an ad hoc basis. Transfers of pension payments or social security payments are also permitted if such payments began at least one year before permanent residence in Sao Tome and Principe. Payments for technical assistance and other services in the national interest are allowed. Remittances to close relatives are permitted up to an annual maximum of Db 5,500 for each relative living abroad or up to 40 per cent of the income of the person making the remittance, whichever is lower. For remit- tances to relatives studying abroad (at a high school or a un ive rs i ty ), the following annual limits apply: Db 3,500 for persons 15 years of age or younger; Db 4,000 for persons between the ages of 15 and 21; and Db 6,500 for persons over 21. At the beginning of the school year a student may also receive a special transfer of up to Db 5,000 a year for expenses related to his courses. All payments related to invisibles are subject to a stamp tax of 2 per cent. If the payment is made through a telegraphic transfer, the tax is 4 per cent. Foreign travelers may take out the amount of fore ign exchange declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require an export license, as set out in Advance Export Registration Bulletins, which specifies the quantity and c.i.f. or f.o.b. value of the export. All export proceeds must be received through the National Bank. Although the Directorate of External Commerce, a state institution, is responsible for the great majority SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE of exports, and most export items are produced in the nationalized sector of the economy, exports are not a state monopoly. Proceeds from Invisibles Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign exchange. Capital Inward foreign investments are governed by the Investment Code. Transfers are permitted for repay- ment of financing under agreements with the Govern- ment or for repayments on private sector investments in activities considered to be of national interest. A new investment code issued in July 1980 governs transactions related to inward foreign investments. Emigrants may take with them up to Db 20,000 a per- son and Db 30,000 a family. Thereafter, transfers are granted within the following monthly limits: Db 15,000 a person, Db 20,000 a couple, and Db 25,000 a family. However, these transfers must not exceed 30 per cent of the income earned and verified during their period of stay in Sao Tome and Principe. Foreigners rendering technical assistance are allowed to transfer their savings in accordance with the terms of their contracts. Gold Exports and imports of gold require special authoriza- tion by the National Bank. Changes during 1980 July 1. An Investment Code was introduced, offering incentives to foreign investments in specified sectors. 355 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA (Position on December 31, 2980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Saudi Arabia is the Saudi Arabian Riyal, which is pegged to the SDR at SRls 4.28255 = SDR 1. Saudi Arabia at present applies margins not exceeding 7.25 per cent around that fixed relationship. The middle rate of the Saudi Arabian riyal for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, quoted by the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency is determined on the basis of the Fund's daily calculation of the U.S. dollar-SDR rate. On December 31, 1980 the Monetary Agency's middle rate for the U.S. dollar was SRls 3.32500; it sold U.S. dollars to banks at SRls 3.33000 per US$1 and bought from banks and the principal producer of petroleum at SRls 3.32000 per US$1; these rates served as the basis for exchange quotations in the market, the banks being permitted to charge up to 0.25 per cent above and below the Monetary Agency's buying and selling rates. The Monetary Agency also sells sterling to banks. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Saudi Arabia formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as from March 22, 1961. Prescription of Currency The use of the currencies of Israel and South Afr ica is prohibited.1 No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required, and exchange for payments abroad may be obtained freely. The impor- tation of a few commodities is prohibited for reasons of health or security. Some imports are subject to customs duties at rates ranging between 3 per cent and 20 per cent. 1 In addition, all imports from these countries and all exports to these countries are prohibited; payments may not be made to them or be received from them for all types of transactions whether of a current or capital nature. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, and no control is exercised over export proceeds. The re-export of cer- ta in imported items benefiting from government subsidy is prohibited. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted. Travelers may freely import and export Saudi Arabian banknotes and coin. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. The Monetary Agency has issued guidelines to its foreign correspondent banks requiring them to seek approval prior to the flotation of riyal-denominated loans. The Foreign Capital Investment Law provides for specified benefits to be extended to approved foreign investments in Saudi Arabia. Approved foreign capital enjoys the same privileges as domestic capital under the 1962 Law for the Protection and Promotion of National Industry. Foreign capital invested in industrial or agricultural projects with at least 25 per cent Saudi Arab ian partici- pation is exempt from income and corporate tax for ten years af ter production has begun. Gold The monetary authorities and all other residents, including private persons, may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, without a license and without payment of any customs du ty or tax, import and export gold in any form. Changes during 1980 During the year, the middle rate of the Saudi Arab ian riyal against the U.S. dollar was adjusted five times; cumulatively, the rate moved from SRls 3.365 = US$1 to SRls 3.32500 = US$1. May 13. Trade and payments restrictions applying to Zimbabwe ( fo rme r ly Rhodesia) were lifted. 356 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Senegal is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buying and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA f ranc. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per mill for t rans fe rs f rom countries outside the West A f r ican Monetary Union and one of 2.50 per mill for transfers to such countries.2 Banks levy a commission on trans- fers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Un ion, part of which must be surrendered to the Treas- ury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to gold, Senegal's exchange controls do not apply to ( 1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Ben in, Cameroon, the Central A f r ican Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of Money and Credit in the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Part of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to the BCEAO and to authorized banks. The BCEAO is authorized to col- lect, either directly or through the banks, other financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public, any informa t ion necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relat- ing to fore ign countries must be effected through author- ized banks, the Postal Adm in is tra t ion, or the BCEAO. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce, including those for gold. Prescription of Currency Since Senegal is an Operations Account coun try, set- tlements with France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current transactions w i th The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Maur i tan ia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally iThe CFA f ranc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common cu r r en cy in Benin, Ivory Coast, N ige r, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 Transfers between member countries of the Union are subject to a flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on se t t lemen ts be tween agencies of the BCEAO. settled through the West Afr ican Clearing House. Set- tlements with all other countries are usually effected through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements with South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French bank- notes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account is not per- mitted, except for BCEAO banknotes mailed to the BCEAO agency in Dakar by an authorized bank's for- eign correspondent; such banknotes may be credited to a Foreign Account in Francs opened by the latter with an authorized bank in Senegal. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited, without prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO banknotes mailed by authorized intermediaries directly to their foreign cor- respondents. Imports and Import Payments Imports originating in or proceeding from South Afr ica are prohibited, and the import of certain goods is prohibited f rom all countries except member states of the West African Economic Community. The import f rom any source of a number of other commodities is subject to individual licensing. Imports from countries in the French Franc Area are generally free of Jicense and quan t i ta t ive restriction; some goods, although free f rom import license, require prior authorization by the M in is try of Economy and Finance. Imports of virtually all goods f rom EC countries (the six original member states) and imports of some goods from all countries of the fo rmer Organization for European Economic Cooperation (OEEC), the United States, and Canada are free of quan t i ta t ive restriction; such liberalized imports require only an import certificate made out by the impor ter himself. There is an annual program with global quotas for imports from all non-EC countries outside the French Franc Area. The import program is put in to effect through ind iv idual licenses, which are requ ired for most commodities. Licenses are issued only to au thor ized traders and to industrial and agricul- tu r al producers. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 100,000 (delivered at the Sene- galese border or c . i . f . ). The import licenses or import cer t if ica tes entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before ship- ment if a documen tary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the commodities have 357 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL already been imported (if no documentary credit has been opened, on presentation of the bill of lad ing ). Furthermore, payments for imports may not be made prior to customs clearance. Payments for invisibles All payments to South Afr ica are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require au tho r iza t ion. Au tho r- ized banks are empowered to effect any payment abroad up to CFAF 20,000 on behalf of residents. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the fo rm of prof i ts, dividends, and royalties are also perm i t ted. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent of CFAF 200,000 a year for each person (CFAF 100,000 for children under t e n ); any foreign exchange remaining a f ter re tu rn to Senegal must be surrendered. Applications for add i t ional amounts of foreign exchange may also be approved. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equiv- alent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a max imum of CFAF 300,000 a person a trip, but not more than the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 may be taken out in foreign notes. The t ran s fer of the fu ll net salary of a fore igner working in Senegal is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the t ran s fer takes place within three months of the pay period; how- ever, for Mau r i tan ian nationals work ing in Senegal the transferab le portion is limited to 50 per cent or 80 per cent, depending on fam i ly s ta tus and residence, except for leave salaries, which are t rans fe rab le in fu l l. Resident and nonresident travelers to fo re ign coun tr ies may take out, in addition to any fore ign exchange alloca- tion, up to CFAF 20,000 in BCEAO bankno te s, French banknotes, and banknotes of other Operations Account countries. Resident travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes, but if proceeding to a country that is not a member of the West A f r ican Monetary Union, they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 200,000. Nonresident travelers may freely take out any means of payment, such as travelers checks, issued abroad in their name. However, the export of fore ign banknotes in amounts in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 is authorized only up to the amount declared by them on entry (minus sales of foreign exchange in Senegal and plus any repurchases up to CFAF 50,000). Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Afr ica are prohibited. With a few exceptions (e.g., gold, diamonds, tuna fish), exports 358 to countries in the French Franc Area are free of license. Most exports to other countries require licenses, mainly in order to assure adequate supplies for domestic needs and to prevent certain re-exports. Proceeds from exports to fore ign countries, including countries of the French Franc Area, must normally be collected within 120 days of the arrival of the goods at their destination, and surrendered through authorized intermediary banks not la ter than one mon th a f ter the due date. All export t ransac t ions exceeding CFAF 500,000 must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amoun ts due f rom residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries f rom foreign assets, must be collected and surrendered, if received in fore ign currency, w i th in one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may br ing in any amount of banknotes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue m a in t a in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank- notes and coin (except gold co in) of countries outside the French Franc Area; residents br ing ing in foreign bankno tes must declare them to the customs upon entry and sell them to an au tho r ized bank w i th in eight days. Capital All settlements between Senegal and South Africa are p roh ib i ted. Capital movements between Senegal and France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are f ree of exchange control; capital t ran s fe rs to all other countries require exchange control approva l, but capital receipts f rom such countries are pe rm i t ted freely. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requ i remen ts that may be app l icab le) are ma in ta ined over borrow ing abroad, over inward direct investment and all ou twa rd inves tmen t, and over the issuing, adver- t is ing, or o f f e r ing for sale of fo re ign securities in Sene- gal. Such operations require prior au thor iza t ion by the M in i s t er of Economy and F inance. Exempt f rom au tho r- i z a t ion, however, are ope ra t ions in connec t ion w i th ( 1) loans backed by a guaran tee f rom the Senegalese Government and (2) shares that are identical with, or may be subs t i tu ted fo r, securities whose issue, offer ing, or sale in Senegal has prev ious ly been au thor ized. With the exception of controls over fore ign securities, these measures do not apply to France, Monaco, member coun tr ies of the West A f r i c an Monetary Un ion, and the Opera t ions Account countries. Special controls are ma in ta ined also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of f u n ds for deposit with foreign pr iva te pe rsons and fo re ign f i rms and ins t i tu t ions, and over pub- l ic i ty a imed at p lac ing f u n ds abroad or at subscribing to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France, Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries. All investment abroad by residents of Senegal requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance.3 Foreign direct investments in Senegal4 must be declared to the Minister of Economy and Finance before such investments are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration, dur ing which he may request postponement of the project. Both the mak ing and the liquidating of direct and other investments, whether these are Senegalese investments abroad or foreign investments in Senegal, must be reported to the Minister and the BCEAO within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments constitute investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Lending abroad requires prior authorization by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Borrowing by residents f rom nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. The following are, however, exempt f rom this authorization: (1) loans cons t i tu t ing a direct invest- ment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; (3) loans other than those mentioned above, subject to certain conditions, when the total amount ou ts tand ing of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 40 million for any one borrower. The repayment of loans not cons t i tu t ing a direct investment requires the special authorization of the Minister of Economy and Finance if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt f rom special authorization. The Investment Code provides various fac i l i t ies and benefits for approved foreign inves tmen ts in Senegal. There are special facilities for export industries estab- lished in the industrial free trade zone. Gold Residents are f ree to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any fo rm in Senegal. Imports and exports of gold f rom or to any other coun try requ ire p r ior au tho r- 3 Including inves tmen ts made th rough fo re ign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Senegal and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Senegal. 4 Including those made by companies in Senegal that are d i rec t ly or indirectly under fore ign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Senegal of fore ign companies. SENEGAL ization by the M in is ter of Economy and Finance. Import and export licenses for gold are issued by the Ministry of Commerce. Exempt f rom this requ irement are ( 1) impor ts and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) impor ts and exports of manu fac tu red articles containing a m inor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated a r t ic les ); and ( 3) impor ts and expor ts by travelers of gold articles up to a combined weight of 200 grams. Brokers in precious metals require an au thor iza t ion f rom the Minister of Economy and Finance to conduct their business. Both licensed and exempt impor ts of gold are subject to customs declara- t ion. Purchases abroad of nonmone ta ry gold are sub- ject to a tax of 25 per cent. Commercial imports of gold jewelry require pr ior au tho r iza t ion, and impor ts of ornamen ts require the p r ior advice of the Senegal Cor- poration for the Promotion of Art Hand ic ra f ts (Societe Senegalaise pour la Promotion de 1'Artisanat d 'A r t) and the Directorate of Mines and Geology. Changes during 1980 January 1. A new M in is try of Commerce was estab- l ished, which took over the func t ion of issuing import and export licenses f rom the M in is t ry of Finance and Economic A f f a i rs (Directorate of Foreign T r ad e ). January 3. The impor ta t ion of certain types of elec- tr ic ba t te r ies (R 20) was banned, and other types were made sub ject to p r ior au tho r iza t ion. February 22. The impo r ta t ion of a number of speci- fied items was made subject to prior authorization. April 9. Import duties were raised f r om 5 per cent to 10 per cent for some i tems and f r om 15 per cent to 30 per cent for others. May 23. The requ irement for prior au tho r iza t ion for the impo r ta t ion of sawn wood was removed. June 27. Circulars Nos. 113 and 114 were intro- duced, se t t ing out new regulations for the domiciliation of paymen ts for exports and impo r ts, respectively. August 25. An export subsidy scheme for non trad i- t ional produc ts was introduced at a rate of 10 per cent of the f.o.b. value of exports. August 25. Certain changes were made in the taxa- t ion of imports as fo l lows: ( 1) The basic m i n im um t a r i ff on imports was raised f rom 10 per cent to 15 per cent, and the list of commodities exempted f rom th is ta r i ff was subs tan t ia l ly reduced and (2) certain "less essential" impor ts, hitherto subject to fiscal duties of 35 per cent and 45 per cent, were reclassified to cate- gories hav ing a fiscal du ty of 70 per cent. 359 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SEYCHELLES (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Seychelles is the Seychelles Rupee, which is pegged to the SDR at SR 8.3197 = SDR 1. The official buying and selling rates for the pound sterling, the intervention currency, are determined on the basis of the daily calculation of the pound sterling-SDR rate on the previous business day. On December 31, 1980 the buying and selling rates of the Seychelles Monetary Authority for the pound sterling were SR 15.4749 and SR 15.6301, respectively, per <£ stg. 1. The Monetary Authority charges a commis- sion of 0.25 per cent for buying and 0.75 per cent for selling of pounds sterling and U.S. dollars. The com- mercial banks are authorized to deal in pounds sterling and other currencies at rates based on the daily calcula- tions of SDR rates for the respective currencies. These rates are circulated daily to the commercial banks by the Monetary Authority. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fo re ign exchange. Seychelles forma l ly accepted the obligations of A r t i- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from Janua ry 3, 1978. Administration of Control and Prescription of Currency There is no exchange control, and there are no pre- scription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments No restrictions are placed on payments for imports, except where goods imported f rom South Africa are concerned. With this exception, most goods may be imported freely f rom any source under open general license. Payments for such transactions may be effected without the completion of application forms. A limited number of imports require a specific license, and the import of a few items is prohibited. Most imports are subject to duties, with a preferential schedule of rates applying to goods originating in Commonwealth, ACP, and EC countries. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisibles, and no limits are imposed on the provision of travel exchange. Travelers may take or send out of Seychelles any amount of domestic or foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports no rma l ly do not requ ire licenses, but cer ta in exports are subject to duties. Residents may export goods w i thout exchange control forma l i ty to any coun- try, except South Afr ica. Export proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be disposed of freely. Overseas visitors may b r ing in any amount of currency for travel expenditure. Capital No res tr ic t ions are imposed on inward or ou tward capital payments. Ou tward transfers of overseas-owned capital are allowed w i thout limit. Whether or not they have been granted temporary residential status, non- nationals are permitted to repatriate their surplus earn- ings without limit. New investment outside Seychelles by permanent residents and by companies and other organizations operating in Seychelles is not subject to any limitation. Foreign investment (whether portfolio, direct invest- ment, increased investment in existing entities in the form of loans, or equity capital) is free of restrictions. Gold Residents may free ly purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad, but dealings in gold bul- lion are restricted to authorized dealers. Two com- memorative gold coins in denominations of SR 1,500 and SR 1,000 have been issued and are legal tender. Changes during 1980 January 1. New customs tar iffs became effective, involving, on average, an increase in rates for certain items. January 14. The Monetary Authority informed com- mercial banks that it would commence dealings in U.S. dollars f rom that date and would charge commission at the same rates as for purchases and sales of pounds sterling. May 30. Specific import licenses were required for certain food items, such as corned beef, cream, cooking and salad oil, and margarine. December 24. Exchange and trade restrictions apply- ing to Zimbabwe (former ly Rhodesia) were lifted. December 24. Dealings in gold bullion or in foreign currency were restricted to authorized dealers. 360 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sierra Leone is the Sierra Leonean Leone, which is pegged to the SDR at Le 1 = SDR 0.731566. The Bank of Sierra Leone deals only in pounds sterling, the intervention currency, and stands ready in transactions with commercial banks to buy and sell leones in exchange for sterling at the daily rate between the leone and the pound sterling deter- mined on the basis of the SDR-pound sterling rate, subject to a maximum commission of 1 per cent on either side. The authorized banks in Sierra Leone base their rates for other currencies on current London market rates. On December 31, 1980 the banks' buy- ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were US$0.95411 and US$0.93405, respectively, per Le 1. Sierra Leone avails itself of wider margins. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is determined by the Min- istry of Finance, but the day-to-day administration of exchange control is carried out by the Bank of Sierra Leone. A Foreign Exchange Budget Advisory Com- mittee, comprising representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Comptroller of Customs, and the Bank of Sierra Leone determines the size of the import budget for each year and sets priorities for issuance of import licenses. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Authorized commer- cial banks are permitted to sell foreign exchange for permitted imports and for travel expenses within speci- fied limits; beyond these limits, applications must be made to the Bank of Sierra Leone. Prescription of Currency Transactions with all countries are subject to exchange control. Certain settlements with the People's Republic of China must be channeled through clearing accounts established under the terms of a bilateral pay- ments agreement. Payments for imports from other countries may be made in leones to the credit of an External Account, in the currency of the exporting country, in sterling, or in U.S. dollars. Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States ( for Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, and Nigeria are normally made through the West Afr ican Clearing House. Receipts from exports other than diamonds to coun- tries other than the People's Republic of China may be obtained in leones f rom an External Account, in the currency of the importing country, or in any specified currency.1 Receipts f rom all exports must be obtained in the currency of the importing country or in any other specified currency, through the account of the Bank of Sierra Leone in the importing country, or if there is no such account, through an account in a bank in the impo r t ing country nominated by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Settlements with Namibia and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in leones held with authorized banks in Sierra Leone by residents of countries outside Sierra Leone are designated External Accounts. Residents of former Sterling Area countries2 may maintain Sterling Area Accounts denominated in leones. In addition, there are Blocked Accounts, to which are credited amounts due to nonresidents that may not be remitted abroad. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Namibia and South Africa are prohibited. Imports are effected within an annual import budget, and all imports require individual import licenses. Imports of rice can be made only by the Sierra Leone Produce Marketing Board and licensed dealers. Authorized banks have limited authority to grant foreign exchange for import payments; the approval of the Bank of Sierra Leone is required where the payment exceeds Le 10,000 for each individual license. The Bank of Sierra Leone takes the availability of foreign exchange into account in considering appli- cations. There has been an accumulation of arrears on import payments. All imports not specifically exempted by the Minister of Finance are subject to an invoice entry tax and to a special licensing fee, both at 12 per cent of the c.i.f. value. The rates are 5 per cent for imports from countries belonging to the Economic Community of West A f r ican States. A charge of 2.5 per cent is imposed on all import licenses, except for imports of raw materials. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to nonresidents require approval, which for many current transactions is given free ly. Remittances of earnings by foreign nationals are limited, in principle, to Le 8,000 or 40 per cent of gross taxable annual wages and salaries, whichever is lower, but the Bank of Sierra Leone may permit the t ran s fer of larger amounts. Insurance on imported 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 Sierra Leone's regulations still provide a definition of the Sterling Area; the definition includes Sierra Leone and excludes South Africa. 361 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE goods must be taken out with insurance companies incorporated in Sierra Leone. Buying commission is not normally permitted to exceed 2 per cent, and bank charges, financing commission, and other financial charges on imports also are not normally allowed. There are arrears on payments for current invisibles, including interest on official debt. For travel abroad, residents are entitled to a basic exchange allowance of Le 500 a person a calendar year. Applications for larger amounts are considered on an individual basis. In addition to the basic exchange allowance, travelers may take out, regardless of desti- nation, Le 20 in leone notes and the equivalent of Le 50 in foreign currency notes. Nonresident travelers may take out any foreign currency banknotes, includ- ing sterling notes, declared by them when entering Sierra Leone. Travel abroad is subject to a travel tax of 5 per cent of the price of the ticket, payable at the time of pur- chase of the ticket. Exports and Export Proceeds With the exception of some commodities, the expor- tation of which is restricted to certain state corporations, export licenses are granted by the Ministry of Trade and Industry for the export of all commodities to all coun- tries except Namibia and South Africa. The proceeds of exports, including diamonds and other minerals, must be received in the currency of the importing country or in any other specified currency agreed to by the Bank of Sierra Leone; the proceeds must be received by the exporter and sold to an authorized bank in Sierra Leone within three months from the date of export, unless per- mission to do otherwise is obtained. The buying and exporting of diamonds is carried out by locally licensed firms and by several foreign companies. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 1) must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Subject to declaration upon entry, persons enter- ing Sierra Leone may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes. The importation of domestic banknotes is limited to Le 20 for each traveler. Capital Capital payments to nonresidents of Sierra Leone are subject to exchange control. Residents of Sierra Leone require permission from the Bank of Sierra Leone to purchase foreign currency securities or real estate situ- ated abroad. Investments by nonresidents may be repatriated at any time, together with profits, provided that exchange control permission was obtained initially for the investment. The Sierra Leone Exchange Control Act of 1954 imposes control on the issue and transfer of securities. The placing of an issue in Sierra Leone requires per- mission if either the person acquiring the securities or 362 the person for whom he is nominee is resident outside Sierra Leone. Permission must also be obtained before a security registered in Sierra Leone may be transferred to a nonresident. Capital in respect of securities regis- tered in Sierra Leone may not be transferred abroad w i thout permission. Where permission has been given for securities registered in Sierra Leone to be sold to persons resident abroad, the company is usually required to obtain bank certification of the funds brought into Sierra Leone. The Development Ordinance of 1960 provides for income tax and customs duty concessions to fore ign and domestic companies undertaking indus- trial or agricultural activities that are needed for the development of the country. Noncitizens are prohibited f rom owning or controlling certain types of business. Residents of Sierra Leone must sell to an authorized dealer their holdings of gold and specified currency. Exemption is granted for authorized dealers, diplomats, and holders of sterling assets held prior to June 24, 1972 for which exemption has been claimed and granted by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Exempted securities may be sold outside the former Sterling Area (see foot- note 2) and any income therefrom may be retained in the former Sterling Area or reinvested in other Sterling Area securities. Any certificate of securities purchased with the proceeds of the sale of securities exempted under this permission is exempt from deposit require- ments. Any assets held outside the former Sterling Area by any foreign national temporarily resident in Sierra Leone also are exempt from surrender and deposit requirements, provided that exemption has been claimed and granted by an authorized dealer or by the Bank of Serra Leone. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sierra Leone for numismatic purposes. Also, residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, sell, or export certain Sierra Leonean commemorative gold coins. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities, gold producers, and authorized indus tr ial users are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad; residents must declare and make available to the Government gold held in the form of bars or coin. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry con- s t i tu t ing the personal effects of a traveler require indi- vidual import licenses, which are not normally granted. Exports of gold in any form require licenses issued by the Chief Inspector of Mines; such licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and local gold producers. Travelers do not require a license to take out personal jewelry if the value of the total gold and platinum con- tent does not exceed Le 200. Exports of unworked gold are not subject to export tax. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Changes during 1980 March 1. Nonresidents were prohibited from pur- chasing airline tickets in local currency; such tickets could be sold only against payment in foreign exchange. March 6. The importation of all goods for com- mercial purposes was made subject to the issue of specific import licenses. April 18. Exchange and trade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe (formerly Rhodesia) were lifted, July 1. The invoice entry tax and import licensing fee were both raised from 9 per cent to 12 per cent of the c.i.f. value of imports. SIERRA LEONE 363 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Singapore is the Singapore Dollar. The value of the Singapore dollar is determined on the basis of its fixed relationship to a trade-weighted basket of currencies representing Singapore's major trading partners. The exchange rate of the Singapore dollar in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is determined in the foreign exchange market. The buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1980 were S$2.0925 and S$2.0935, respectively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies are established on the basis of the daily rate for the U.S. dollar and their cross rates in international markets. Banks are free to deal spot and forward in all currencies. Singa- pore and Brunei currency notes and coins are freely interchangeable, at par and without charge, in Singa- pore and Brunei. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Singapore formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as from November 9, 1968. Administration of Control There are no exchange control formalities but the Monetary Authority of Singapore retains responsibility for exchange control matters. The Department of Trade of the Ministry of Trade and Industry administers import and export controls; the Controller and Registrar of Imports and Exports is empowered to approve imports and exports. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Nonresident Accounts There is no distinction between accounts of residents and nonresidents of Singapore. Debits and credits to all accounts may be made freely. Imports and Import Payments Virtually all imports are permitted freely. A few imports are controlled for health or security reasons. All imports originating in South Africa or any terr i tory administered by it are prohibited. Import licenses are required for (1) the following items, irrespective of origin: rice (excluding rice b r a n ), refined sugar, chlorine, air-conditioning machines not exceeding 9,000 KCAL /H (excluding air-conditioning machines for motor vehicles); and (2) all goods originating in or consigned from A lban ia, the German Democratic Republic, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongolia, and Viet Nam. License app l ica t ions for goods under the second category must be submitted through an in termed iary (In traco L td . ), which levies a sur- charge of 0.5 per cent on the c.i.f. value of imports from the specified countries. 364 Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange made available for travel abroad. Remittances to nonresidents of dividends, interest, and profits may be made freely. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out any amount in foreign or Singapore banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain textiles of Singapore origin to Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, the United K ingdom, and the United States are subject to quan t i ta t ive restriction. Exports of a few other items are restricted irrespective of destination. Other com- modities do not require an export license. Export proceeds need not be surrendered and may be disposed of freely. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles need not be sur- rendered and may be disposed of freely. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in fore ign banknotes and coin, inc lud ing Singapore gold coin. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers. Gov- ernment approval is required for investment in resi- dential and other properties ( inc lud ing vacant land) other than those zoned or approved for industrial or commercial use. A fore igner may, however, freely purchase a residential un it within a building of six or more stories and in an approved condominium develop- ment w i thout such approval. With regard to other residential properties, foreigners who make an economic con tr ibu t ion to Singapore will be given favorable con- sideration for purchase of these properties for their own occupation and, in the case of foreign companies, for the accommodation of their senior personnel. Singapore banks that have been licensed to operate an Asian Currency Unit, and thus to operate in the Asian dollar market, may freely accept deposits in currencies other than Singapore dollars. Gold There is a free gold market in Singapore, to which residents and nonresidents have free access. Both resi- dent and nonresident individuals and companies are permitted to import, hold, negotiate, and export gold free ly; imports and exports require neither exchange control approval nor import or export licenses, and gold can be dealt with free ly by any person in Singa- pore. There are two distinct gold markets, the physical ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE market and the futures market. The delivery points for the physical market can be either in Singapore or in London, with appropriate price adjustments for the cost of transportation and insurance. The price of gold used for the manu fac tu re of orna- ments is fixed by the Singapore Chinese Gold and Silver Merchants Association. On December 31, 1980 this price was about S$ 1,650 per tael for 24-karat gold and S$ 1,500 per tael for 22-karat gold. Changes during 1980 January 18. Exchange and trade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe (formerly Rhodesia) were lifted. March 5. It was announced that with effect f rom 1981 the tax on profits from offshore gold transactions would be reduced from 40 per cent to 10 per cent. This concession would be applicable only to profits derived from qualifying offshore gold transactions by the Asian Currency Units of financial institutions and approved members of the Gold Exchange of Singapore. March 5. Import duties were abolished for a number of items inc lud ing foods tu f f, clothing, television sets, and furn i ture, and were reduced for a wide range of other commodities. April 3. A double tax deduction scheme was intro- duced for approved overseas market developments and for approved promotional publications. Under this scheme, companies undertaking approved marketing campaigns in overseas markets to promote Singapore manu fac tu res would be eligible for double tax deduction for expenses incurred on or after April 1, 1979. 365 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOLOMON ISLANDS (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Solomon Islands is the Solomon Islands Dollar, issued by the Solomon Islands Mone tary Authority. On October 29, 1979 the fixed link between the Solomon Islands dollar and the Aus t ra l ian dollar was discontinued; the exchange rate for the Solomon Islands dollar is now determined on the basis of a fixed relationship between the Solomon Islands dollar and a weighted basket of currencies of the Solomon Islands' most impor tant t r ad ing partners. The Mone- tary Au thor i ty provides quo ta t ions only for the Aus- tralian dollar, the in terven t ion currency. On Decem- ber 31, 1980 the buying and selling rates were $A 1.0625 and $A 1.0615, respectively, per SI$1. Exchange trans- actions in other currencies by commercial banks in the Solomon Islands are based upon quo ta t ions received f rom commercial banks in Aus t ra l ia. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fo re ign exchange. The Solomon Islands forma l ly accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund's Articles of Ag reement on Ju ly 24, 1979. Administration of Control Exchange control is adm in i s te red by the Monetary Au thor i ty by means of the Exchange Control (Foreign Exchange) Regulations, which came into force on March 1, 1977. The Mone tary Au tho r i ty delegates extensive powers to commercial banks, which have been appointed authorized dealers in foreign exchange. All persons residing in the Solomon Islands are regarded as permanent residents for exchange control purposes, unless they have been gran ted temporary resident status by an authorized dealer or by the Monetary Authority. Applications for temporary resi- dent status are norma l ly approved if the person is a citizen of a foreign country who intends to reside in the Solomon Islands for a period of less than four years or has resided in the Solomon Islands for over four years but who can produce evidence of firm inten- tion to resume permanent residence overseas in the near fu tu re. Ownership of real property or a business indicates permanent residential status, regardless of the duration of residence in the Solomon Islands. How- ever, temporary resident status does not release a person from the obligation to comply w i th all provisions of the exchange control regulations. Prescription of Currency Contractual commitments to persons resident outside the Solomon Islands, which are expressed in a fore ign currency, may only be met by payments in foreign currency. Export proceeds may be received in any foreign currency or in Solomon Islands dollars from 366 an account of an overseas bank with a bank in the Solomon Islands. Nonresident Accounts The Monetary Au thor i ty permits nonresidents upon request to open nonresident accounts with authorized dealers, and balances on such accounts may be freely transferred abroad. Approval is required for the credit- ing of these accounts. Imports and Import Payments No restrictions are placed on paymen ts for imports. Authorized dealers are perm i t ted to approve most trans- actions w i t h o ut reference to the Mone tary Au tho r i ty. Payments for Invisibles Approval is readily given for paymen ts for services and remittances of d iv idends, prof i ts, and other earnings accruing to overseas residents f rom companies in the Solomon Islands. Permanent residents are pe rm i t ted to purchase fore ign exchange for payment of all types of invisibles if suppo r t ing documen ts are provided. Transfers by postal order to persons pe rmanen t ly residing outside the Solomon Islands are perm i t ted, pro- vided that the to tal amount t rans fe r red does not exceed SI$100 a week. App rov al is normally given for the purchase of fo re ign cu r rency for travel purposes. Appli- ca t ions for travel f u n ds must be lodged w i th an au thor- ized dealer, and applicants are requ ired to present their passports and passage or flight t icke ts. Requests for unusually large amoun ts of fo re ign exchange are referred to the Mone ta ry A u t h o r i t y. Travelers may not take out Solomon Islands currency notes and coin, in excess of SI$250, w i thout the approval of the exchange control authorities, which is not norma l ly given. Exports and Export Proceeds Residents may export goods w i t h o ut exchange control forma l i ty provided that they comply w i th the terms of the General Au thor i ty issued by the Mone tary Au tho r i ty. The essen t ial conditions of th is General Au tho r i ty are that payment for goods exported is received w i t h in six months before or a f ter the date of export, that the export price is reasonable, and that the proceeds are sold to an authorized dealer. Where exporters are not in a position to comply w i th the conditions of the General Au tho r i ty, they must apply to the Mone tary Au tho r i ty for a Specific Au tho r i ty. Au tho r i ty is not needed for goods under SI$250 in value in any one cons ignment or for certain exempted categories of goods, inc lud ing most k inds of personal effects of passengers. Proceeds from Invisibles Approval is requ ired for the disposal of fo r e ign cur- rency proceeds other than by means of a sale to an ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution authorized dealer. Overseas residents visiting the Solomon Islands may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenditure. Capital Outward transfers of capital are allowed without limit. Persons who have been granted temporary resi- dential status by an authorized dealer or the Mone- tary Authority are permitted to repatriate their surplus earnings without limit. New investment abroad by permanent residents or by companies and other organizations operating in the Solomon Islands is subject to certain limitations. Direct investment overseas is perm i t ted where it is likely to be of benefit to the Solomon Islands. In the case of portfolio investments, the approval of the Monetary Authority is needed prior to the acquisition or disposal of foreign securities by a permanent resident. Approval for the acquisition of certain types of securities that are not available in the Solomon Islands is usua l ly granted. Restrictions are not normally imposed on the disposal of foreign securities acquired prior to March 1, 1977. SOLOMON ISLANDS Approval by the Monetary Au thor i ty is required for a resident to borrow f u n ds f rom or to issue equ i ty capital to a nonres iden t. The Solomon Islands branch of a company or firm incorporated overseas requires approval by the Mone tary Au tho r i ty before it may borrow f u n ds f rom a nonresident, inc lud ing the branch's overseas head off ice. Where in i t i al or increased fo re ign investment is concerned, the Commercial Inves tment Committee in the M in i s t ry of Trade, Indu s t ry, and Labour mu st also give its approva l. Gold Solomon Islanders a lone are g ran ted a l icense to pan for a l luv ial gold. Commerc ial banks and a ll other residents are requ i red to ob ta in a p e rm it issued by the M in is t ry of N a t u r al Resources to m ine, buy, or export gold. The Mone ta ry A u t h o r i ty is au thor ized to buy, sell, and hold gold, but has not yet u n d e r t a k en any such transac t ions. Changes during 1980 January 31. Exchange and t rade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe ( fo rm e r ly Rhodesia) were l if ted. 367 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Somalia is the Somali Shilling, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency. On December 31, 1980 the official buying and sell- ing rates for the U.S. dollar were So. Sh. 6.2327 and So. Sh. 6.3573, respectively, per US$1, unchanged since 1973. The Central Bank of Somalia carries out exchange transactions in certain "convertible" currencies,1 taking into account rates in European exchange markets. The exchange market in Somalia comprises the Central Bank and the sole commercial bank, which operates as the authorized exchange dealer in respect of trans- actions in foreign currencies. The authorized exchange dealer generally does not conduct forward exchange transactions on behalf of the public, although this is not prohibited. Administration of Control The Ministry of Commerce is the principal govern- ment agency concerned with the implementation and operation of trade and exchange controls. The Central Bank is authorized to determine the rates at which foreign currencies are to be negotiated, to establish a list of "convertible" currencies,1 and to appoint author- ized exchange dealers. The Central Bank may also implement the trade and exchange controls on behalf of the Ministry of Commerce. An Advisory Commis- sion, consisting of nine members, representing various ministries, the Central Bank, the Customs Authority, and the police, advises the Ministry of Commerce on policy questions relating to the regulation and control of foreign economic transactions. The National and Local Licensing Committees, representing the Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Finance, the Central Bank, the Customs Authority, and the police, decide on applications for licenses for imports and exports and for transfers in respect of services. The Central Bank grants licenses for certain routine invisibles. Transfers in respect of capital are authorized by the National Licensing Committee, unless they are governed by the provisions of the Foreign Investment Law. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the U.S.S.R. are made through bilateral clearing accounts denominated in pounds sterling. Settlements with all other countries must be made in Somali shillings or in "convertible" currencies;1 however, residents are not permitted to make settle- ments with Israel or South Afr ica. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in Somali shillings may be opened with the authorized exchange dealer by Somali nationals residing abroad, by foreign nationals and foreign institutions having diplomatic status in Somalia, and by foreign companies engaged in mineral prospect- ing or consultancy services. Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods originating in or shipped f rom Israel and South Afr ica are prohibited. State agencies are responsible for imports of all commodities, with the exception of imports through the franco valuta system (see be low). The import by state agencies of a few commodities from all sources is temporarily pro- hibited for balance of payments reasons,2 and some commodities are not being imported at present (e.g., soaps and detergents, rubber and plastic footwear, and bleached or unbleached cotton c lo th ). Individual licenses are required for all commodities. Certain com- modities are liberalized when originating in EC coun- tries. The state trad ing organization, the National Agency for Trade (ENC ), is responsible for the import and distribution of certain commodities received under aid programs. It is also the sole agent for the importa- tion of animal and vegetable oils and fats, corn, rice, wheat flour, coffee, tea, sugar, pasta, and certain other commodities. The Iraqi-Somali Oil Refinery is respon- sible for the import of crude petroleum, while the National Petroleum Agency is the only importer of other fuels and fuel products, batteries, rubber tubes and tires, and fire extinguishers and related materials. The Pharmaceutical Agency is the only agency entitled to import medicines, while the Agency for Construction Materials is the sole importer of construction materials. Under the franco valuta system, licenses are issued freely to private importers who have obtained foreign exchange from sources outside Somalia (ma in ly from Somali nationals working abroad) in order to pay for imports. If a commodity imported through this system is normally the responsibility of a state agency, a permit by that agency and the payment of a commission to that agency are required. The state agency may refuse to issue the permit, in which case it undertakes to pur- chase the imported commodities at a domestic currency price based on the parallel market exchange rate pre- vailing in neighboring countries and a reasonable profit margin. If goods imported d iffer in weight, quantity, or value by more than 10 per cent f rom the specifications in the import license, a new import license must be obtained. All imports other than those made by the Government, diplomatic and consular agencies, and international organizations are subject to a statistical and administra- tive tax of 20 per cent. 1 Deutsche ma rk, Djibouti francs, French francs, Italian lire, Kuwa i ti dinars, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swiss francs, U.A.E. dir- hams, and U.S. dollars. 2 Butter, cheese, tomatoes, nonalcoholic beverages, ready-made clothing, textiles and related materials, electrical appliances and parts, and small passenger automobiles. 368 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for imports are authorized by the Central Bank or the authorized exchange dealer on the basis of the import license and other documentation. Provided that the Central Bank or the authorized exchange dealer is satisfied that the transaction meets the legal require- ments, permission to make payment for imports is granted to the applicant not later than the third business day following the receipt of the application or on such other subsequent day as may be specified by the appli- cant. The Central Bank or the authorized exchange dealer may also permit advance payments for imports (i.e., payment for merchandise that has not actually passed through customs at the time of paymen t), pro- vided that documentary evidence of actual shipment is produced. Advance payments for imports without docu- mentary evidence of actual shipment are not permitted. Payments for imports from neighboring areas3 are permitted only by letter of credit and by cash against documents. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Payments for current invisibles are subject to licensing, mainly to prevent unauthorized capital movements; normally, genuine requirements are met, provided that balance of payments considerations permit. Transfers of salaries, wages, gratuities, and allowances paid in Somalia to foreign personnel by enterprises registered under the Foreign Investment Law are normally allowed up to 50 per cent. The Central Bank may grant licenses for exchange for travel purposes up to specified limits. The foreign exchange allocation for pilgrimages is So. Sh. 5,000 a person. For tourist travel by residents, the allocation is So. Sh. 1,000 a person a year, which is applicable to all countries, except Canada, Japan, and the United States; for these three countries, the allow- ance is So. Sh. 1,400 a person a year. The foreign exchange allocation for business travel and travel for medical reasons is So. Sh. 1,000 a trip (So. Sh. 1,500 for Canada, Japan, and the United States). Applications for all other invisibles are considered on their merits by the Licensing Committees in Mogadiscio, Hargeisa, and Burao. Nonresident travelers may take out without authoriza- tion any foreign exchange which they brought in and up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali notes and coin. Resident tra- velers may take out without authorization So. Sh. 200 in Somali notes and coin and up to the equivalent of So. Sh. 200 in foreign banknotes and coin. A currency declaration is required f rom all persons leaving the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. The export of a few commodities to any destination may be prohibited for reasons of public policy. An export license is required for all other 3 Aden, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kenya, and Mukawwar Island. SOMALIA commodities. Bananas are exported only by the National Banana Board. The ENC is the sole agent for the exportation of incense, myrrh, gum arabic, and char- coal. The export of salt, dried fish, and hides and skins also is a public sector monopoly. All export proceeds must be repatriated, declared, and offered for sale to the Central Bank or to the authorized exchange dealer within five business days af ter their receipt. The Central Bank may exempt exporters f rom the surrender obligation in respect of their export proceeds. For exports other than those made under letter of credit arrangements, an advance payment deposit of 15 per cen t4 of the value of exports is required.5 Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated, declared, and offered for sale to the Central Bank or to the authorized exchange dealer within five business days a f t er their receipt. The Central Bank may grant exemp- tions from the surrender requirement. Nonresidents may freely b r ing in with them any amount in foreign exchange and up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali banknotes and coin; they must make a currency declaration when entering the country. Resident tra- velers may br ing in up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali bank- notes and coin and are obliged, upon arrival, to declare and offer to surrender any fore ign exchange or gold they b r ing in. Capital Capital transactions are subject to licensing unless they are authorized by the Foreign Investment Law of February 1960, as amended in January 1977. In accordance with the provisions of that law, foreign enterprises must be registered with the Directorate of Planning and Coordination. For "productive" enter- prises (as defined in the Foreign Investment Law ), profits may be transferred abroad freely up to a limit of 30 per cent per annum of the capital invested; the unused portion of this transfer right is cumulative for three years. Should profits in any one year be less than 30 per cent, the transfer right for the succeeding three years is increased correspondingly. The capital itself may be transferred abroad beginning five years a f ter the date of registration. Profits resulting from other foreign investments may be transferred abroad up to a l im it of 10 per cent per annum of the capital invested, and the capital itself may be transferred abroad over a minimum period of three years, beg inn ing seven years after the date of registration. The Ministry of Finance, upon the recommendation of other ministries concerned, may extend total or partial exemption f rom import and export taxes, excise duty, income tax, and municipal tax to any enterprise 4 On J anu a ry 1, 1981 the deposit was raised to 30 per cent. 5 On J anu a ry 3, 1981 the surrender requ irement was l i f ted in respect of exports of dried fish to the countries of Central, Eastern, and Southern Africa, but exporters must use the export proceeds for imports f rom these countries. 369 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA for a period not exceeding five years. For investments registered prior to March 1968, the fiscal exemptions may be granted for up to ten years. Enterprises regis- tered in or after March 1968 must, to the largest possible extent, employ residents, and each enterprise must submit to the Committee on Foreign Investments a program for the substitution of nonresidents by resi- dent employees. Gold Residents may hold and acquire in Somalia, for numismatic purposes only, gold coins that are not legal tender in any country. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require the permission of the Central Bank; such permission is not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Gold imported by jewelers must be melted down within one month to a fineness of not more than 22 karats. Imports of gold are exempt from customs duty when originating in EC countries and imports from elsewhere are subject to a 10 pe rcent duty. Changes during 1980 January 12. The 0.7 per cent commission on foreign exchange transactions was removed. April 18. Exchange and trade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe (former ly Rhodesia) were lifted. May 1. The bilateral payments agreement with the People's Republic of China was terminated; settlements between the two countries would henceforth take place in freely usable currencies. 370 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of South Africa is the South African Rand. The authorities of South Africa do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions but inter- vene in the exchange market to affect the rates quoted by the commercial banks for the "commercial" rand. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1980 the commercial banks' spot rates for the U.S. dollar in transactions with the public were US$1.3415 buying, and US$1.3405 selling, per R 1. Subject to certain limitations, authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange operations. The Reserve Bank provides forward cover in U.S. dollars only for private sector transactions; such cover is given daily to authorized dealers based on an interest rate d ifferen t ial between the U.S. dollar and the rand. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of for- eign exchange. There is also a freely floating "financial" rand, which is the local sale and redemption proceeds of South Afr ican securities and other investments in South Africa owned by nonresidents (other than former residents of South A f r i c a ). The rate for the financial rand is usually at a discount f rom the commercial rand rate; at the end of 1980, the discount was about 30 per cent, the middle closing rate on December 31 being U.S. cents 93.56 per R 1. South Afr ica formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund's Articles of Agreement, as of September 15, 1973. Exchange Control Territory There are virtually no exchange or trade restrictions between the Republic of South Africa (defined for exchange control purposes as including South West A f r i c a ), Lesotho, and Swaziland, and these form, with the Republic of South Africa, a single exchange con- trol territory, the Rand Monetary Area. Administration of Control Exchange licensing is the responsibility of the Trea- sury, which has delegated this authority to the South A f r i c an Reserve Bank; in turn, the Reserve Bank has delegated much of its licensing powers to the authorized dealers. Import and export licenses are issued by the Director of Import and Export acting on behalf of the Minister for Industries, Commerce, and Tourism. Exchange for licensed imports is made available by the authorized dealers upon proof of shipment or, where advance payment is proposed, upon presentation of other documen tary evidence, which must include the prior approval of the Reserve Bank.1 1 On February 16, 1981 it was announced tha t, w i thout Reserve Bank approval, authorized dealers could permit advance payment of up to 33V$ per cent of the ex-factory cost of capital goods if such was the requirement of suppliers. Prescription of Currency All countries outside the Rand Monetary Area con- stitute the Nonresident Area. The only settlement cur- rency accepted in all countries in the Rand Monetary Area is the rand .2 Settlements by residents of the Rand Monetary Area with the Nonresident Area, except Botswana and Zimbabwe, may be made in rand to and f rom a Nonresident Account and in any specified currency3 and, for outgoing payments only, in any foreign currency.4 Settlements with Botswana may be made in rand to or from a local Botswana Account, in Botswana currency, in rand from a local Nonresident Account to a Botswana Account ( for outgoing pay- ments o n l y ), in rand from a local Nonresident Account ( f or inward payments on ly), or in any specified cur- rency ( f or inward payments on ly). Settlements with Zimbabwe may be made in rand to and from a local Zimbabwean account, in Zimbabwean currency, in rand f rom a local nonresident account to a Zimbabwean Account ( for outgoing payments on ly ), in rand from a local nonresident account ( for inward payments o n l y ), or in any specified currency (for inward pay- men ts on ly ). Nonresident Accounts The rand accounts of persons resident outside the Rand Monetary Area are divided into Botswana Accounts, Zimbabwean Accounts, Nonresident Accounts, Financial Rand Accounts, and Blocked Accounts. Botswana Accounts are held by persons, firms, or companies ( inc lud ing banks) resident, domiciled, or registered in Botswana. They may be credited with all authorized payments by South African residents, with the proceeds of sales to authorized dealers in South Africa of Botswana currency and of any specified cur- rency, and w i th payments from local Nonresident or Botswana Accounts. They may be debited for pay- ments for exports to Botswana and other payments due by Botswana residents to South African residents, for payments to the account holder while temporarily resi- dent in South Africa for short periods, for payments to other local Botswana Accounts, and for the cost of purchases of Botswana currency. 2 Lilangeni banknotes issued by Swaziland are freely convertible into rand, at par, without restriction at the Central Bank of Swaziland, but they are not legal tender in South Africa. The same rules apply to maloti banknotes issued by Lesotho. Checks and other bills of exchange drawn by Swazi residents for paymen ts in South Afr ica and Lesotho must be denominated in rand. 8 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian f rancs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Fiji dollars, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Malagasy francs, Malawi kwacha, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Norwegian kroner, Pakistan rupees, Portuguese escudos, pounds s ter l ing, Seychelles rupees, Spanish pesetas, Sri Lanka rupees, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Uganda shillings, U.S. dollars, zai'res, and Zambian kwacha. 4 Foreign cu r rency is any currency other than currency that is legal tender in a coun try in the Rand Monetary Area. 371 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA Zimbabwean Accounts are held by persons, firms, or companies (including banks) resident, domiciled, or registered in Zimbabwe. They may be credited with all authorized payments by South African residents, with the proceeds of sales to authorized dealers in South Africa of Zimbabwean currency and of any specified currency, and with payments from local Nonresident or Zimbabwean Accounts. They may be debited for payments for exports to Zimbabwe and other payments due by Zimbabwean residents to South African residents, for payments to the account holder while temporarily resident in South Africa for short periods, for payments to other local Zimbabwean Accounts, and for the cost of purchases of Zimbabwean currency. Nonresident Accounts are held by persons, firms, or companies (including banks) resident, domiciled, or registered outside Botswana, Zimbabwe, and the Rand Monetary Area. They may be credited with all author- ized payments by South African residents, with the proceeds of sales to authorized dealers in South Africa of specified currency, and with payments from other Nonresident Accounts in South Africa. They may be debited for payments to South Afr ican residents for any purpose; for payments to nonresidents for any purpose, i.e., by transfer to a local Nonresident, Botswana, or Zimbabwean Account, or for remittance to any country outside the Rand Monetary Area; for the cost of pur- chases of any foreign currency; and for payments to the account holder while temporarily resident in South Africa for short periods. Financial Rand Accounts are the accounts of non- residents of the Rand Monetary Area, other than emi- grants f rom that Area, to which exchange control restric- tions have been applied. Such accounts are maintained with authorized banks. They must be credited with the local sale and redemption proceeds of South A f r ican securities and other investments in South Afr ica owned by nonresidents, excluding former residents of South Afr ica, and by immigrants within three years of arrival. Dealers on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange are per- mitted to quote prices for financial rand, and its mem- bers are permitted to buy and sell financial rand as agents, acting on behalf of nonresidents. Authorized banks are freely permitted to transfer financial rand balances from one Financial Rand Account in their books to another, in their own books or in the books of another authorized bank. Funds in these accounts may be used freely for reinvestment in locally quoted securi- ties (which may be exported and sold abroad) or for acquiring quoted central government, municipal, or pub- lic utility stocks. On application and approval, financial rand may be used by nonresidents for the purchase of other assets. The maturity proceeds of holdings of five- year nonresident bonds and seven-year 6 per cent Securi- ties Rand Bonds, previously issued by the Treasury, can be remitted abroad in foreign currency. The local sale proceeds of South Afr ican securities held by immigrants 372 prior to their arrival in South Africa, or acquired abroad within three years of their arrival, are also credited to Financial Rand Accounts, with the exception of assets of persons who previously have been South African residents. Blocked Accounts are the accounts of emigrants from the Rand Monetary Area to which exchange control restrictions have been applied. They must be credited with any cash held at the time of departure and with the proceeds of any other South African asset held at the time of departure and subsequently sold. Such funds may not be transferred from South Africa or to ano ther Blocked Account in South Africa, but may be retained on deposit with an authorized dealer, used with- in certain limits for the holder's living expenses while visiting South Afr ica, or be invested in any securities that are quoted locally; such securities may not, how- ever, be exported and sold abroad. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for 30 specific product categories and are not interchangeable among groups. All importers of goods requiring import licenses must be registered with the Director of Import and Export. The licenses are valid for imports from any country. Imports free of license include (1) all goods imported f rom Botswana, Lesotho, or Swaziland, and (2) all goods imported from Malawi, Zambia, and Zimbabwe that were grown, produced, or manufactured in those countries. The Import Control Regulations for 1980 distinguish between the following broad categories of imports: ( 1) goods that may be imported without an import license; (2) goods for which licenses will be granted to meet the "full reasonable requirements" of importers; and ( 3) goods that may be imported only under license and for which the precise nature, volume, and value are specified. During 1980 there was continued relaxation of import control th rough the abolition of periodic quota alloca- tions in respect of certain commodity groups; in addition, a number of items were removed from the list of prod- ucts subject to specific licensing requirements for each shipment, while several other items were added to the list of products exempted f rom licensing requirements. An importer is automatically granted exchange to pay for the import upon presenting to his bank the necessary consignment documents (proof of importa- t i o n ), and an import license where required. Payments prior to the date of shipment or dispatch are not nor- mally allowed except with prior approval or special authorization by the Reserve Bank (see footnote 1). With certain exceptions, imports are subject to a general sales tax of 4 per cent. Payments for Invisibles Au thor i ty is delegated to the authorized dealers to approve certain current payments for invisibles with- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution out limitation and others up to established limits. Applications for larger amounts are considered on their merits by the Reserve Bank. For current income pay- ments, such as declared dividends, profits, royalties, etc., that accrue in South Africa, approval is given by the authorized dealers without reference to the Reserve Bank, provided that the relative royalty agreement was approved by the Department of Industries and the Reserve Bank, and the profits or dividends to be remitted by nonresident-owned branches and subsidiaries are based on profits earned after December 31, 1974 and their remittance does not involve the use of local credit facilities. Favorable consideration is, however, given by the Reserve Bank to such transfers where the use of local credit facilities is not regarded as excessive. Income derived from securities acquired with blocked funds or f inanc ial rand, or otherwise held by nonresi- dents is free ly transferable at the official market rate of exchange to the owner's country of residence. Limited amounts of exchange to pay for membership fees, family ma in tenance, etc., are authorized. The basic allowance for tourist travel in a year is R 3,000 for an adult and R 1,500 for a child under 12. Separately, there is an annual basic exchange allocation of R 1,500 for an adult (R 750 for a child under 12) for travel to Angola, Botswana, Malawi, Mozambique, Zai're, Zambia, Zimbabwe, and the Ind ian Ocean Islands. In addition to the tourist allowances, author- ized dealers may grant allowances for business trips overseas at a rate not exceeding R 250 a day, with a max imum of R 5,000 in a calendar year. The separate applicable allowance for business trips to the neighbor- ing territories mentioned above is R 2,000 a year, at a rate not exceeding R 200 a day. Residents leaving South Afr ica for destinations out- side the Rand Monetary Area may take the fu ll appli- cable allowance in fore ign banknotes. The amount of South A f r ican Reserve Bank notes, however, may not exceed R 100 but these are not regarded as being part of the basic travel allowance. Foreign visitors leaving South Afr ica within 12 months after arrival may take w i th them up to R 100 in Reserve Bank notes and any amount of foreign notes which they brought into the coun t ry or obtained f rom the disposal of instruments of exchange that they brought to and exchanged in South Africa. These limitations on the export of Reserve Bank notes do not apply in the case of contract workers re tu rn ing to neighboring countries, who are permitted to take w i th them reasonable amounts in banknotes. There are no limitations on the export of domestic cu r rency to Lesotho and Swaziland. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of commodities considered as being in re la t ive ly short supply, or for which domestic prices are subs tan t ia l ly lower than those obtainable overseas, require licenses irrespective of destination (with the SOUTH AFRICA exception of exports to Botswana, Lesotho, and Swazi- l and ). Certain other goods are controlled for strategic reasons only, and permits are required for their export to destinations other than the United Kingdom, any Commonwealth country, any British colony, protec- torate, or trust territory, and the United States. The re-export of imported goods to countries outside the Rand Monetary Area, other than Botswana, is con- trolled to prevent commodity and exchange arbitrage. Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be remitted to South Afr ica and surrendered within six months f rom the date of shipment and /or seven days f rom the date of accrual. Exporters may grant credit up to 12 months, pro- vided the credit is necessary in the particular trade or needed to protect an existing export market or to capture a new export market. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles must be surrendered w i th in seven days f rom the date of accrual, unless exemption is obtained. Upon entry f rom countries outside the Rand Monetary Area, residents and nonresidents may bring in R 100 in South A f r ican Reserve Bank notes. There are no limitations on the import of domestic cur- rency from Lesotho and Swaziland. Capital* All inward loan transfers require specific approval,6 while inward transfers through commercial rand for investment in equity capital are freely permitted. For- eign exchange accru ing to residents f rom capital trans- fers and transactions must be surrendered. Outward transfers of capital by residents to destinations outside the Rand Monetary Area require the approval of the Reserve Bank. Local borrow ing by nonresident-owned or nonresident-controlled firms is subject to limitation. Transfers by residents for the purchase of South A f r ican (or o ther) shares on foreign stock exchanges are gen- erally not permitted (except in amoun ts not exceeding R 2,000 through financial rand for each shareholder, to allow South A f r ican residents to exercise rights arising from existing holdings of shares in fo re ign companies quoted only on foreign stock exchanges), although South A f r ican stockbrokers may engage in arbitrage transactions in securities, subject to certain conditions designed to prevent any net outflow of exchange. Appli- 5 For exchange control purposes, a non res ident is de f ined as a person whose normal place of residence or domicile is ou t s ide the Rand Monetary Area. Securities are def ined as inc lud ing not only quo ted stocks, shares, deben tu res, and rights but also unquo t ed shares in public companies, shares in p r iva te companies, gove rnmen t, mun ic ipa l, and public u t i l i ty stocks, nonres iden t-owned mo r tgage bonds a n d / or participations in mo r tgage bonds, and na t ional savings cer t if ica tes. The terms "scrip" and "share certificates" inc lude any tempo ra ry or subs t i tu te documen ts of title, such as le t ters of allotment, option certificates, balance receipts, and any other receipts for scrip. 6 Approval is generally g iven for borrow ing abroad w i th a m a t u r i ty of at least six mon ths by domestic en t rep reneu rs, except for p rope r ty development, speculation, or consumer cred i t. Au tho r ized dealers generally are pe rm i t ted to raise f u n ds abroad in the ir own names for the f inanc ing of Sou th A f r i c an fore ign t rade and other approved purposes. 373 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA cations by South A f r ican residents to retain in, or trans- fer to, countries outside the Rand Monetary Area funds for bona fide long-term investment in specific develop- ment projects or for the expansion of existing projects that are owned or controlled by South A f r icans are considered by the Reserve Bank and the Treasury on their merits. Immigrants are required to fu rn i sh the exchange con- trol authorities with a complete re turn of their fo re ign assets and liabilities at the time of the ir arrival. Any transfers of foreign assets may take place through the medium of financial rand and may be re t rans fe r red abroad through the same channel w i th in the first three years af ter arrival. However, any f u n ds re transferred abroad by means of the financial rand cannot be returned to the Republic of South A f r i ca the rea f ter through the medium of financial rand. The proceeds of the sale of South A f r i c an securities by nonresidents of South A f r ica to residents must be credited to Financial Rand Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above ). The fo l low ing paymen ts related to nonresident capital may be made by the authorized dealers at the commercial rand rate of exchange without reference to the Reserve Bank: trans- fers to nonresidents of South A f r ica of the proceeds on ma tu r i ty of government, municipal, and public u t i l i ty bonds and national savings certificates (except na t ional savings certificates issued on October 1, 1974), provided that they were registered in the name of the nonresi- dent transferee (who was not an em ig ran t) prior to March 30, 1978 and were held continuously in the beneficial owner's name for a period of not less than five years to redemption; and t rans fe rs to nonresident owners of any balance of up to R 50 rema in ing f rom the reinvestment of financial rand balances. Emigrant families are entitled to the normal travel allowance, at the rate for the commercial r and, and are permitted to remit up to R 100,000 (R 50,000 for single persons) in the form of financial rand. Any balance exceeding the permissible transferab le amount must be credited to a Blocked Account. The total net income earned from an emigrant's blocked assets may be t rans- ferred at the commercial rand rate of exchange. An emigrant fam i ly or a person can export one motor vehicle, with a maximum value of R 10,000, provided that it was purchased at least one year prior to emigra- tion, and can export other household and personal effects up to a value of R 10,000 for each family. The Reserve Bank approves transfers of repayments at ma tu r i ty to nonresident holders of mortgage bonds registered in their names on or before June 16, 1961. Favorable consideration is given for the t rans fer by nonresident-owned branches and subsidiaries of open or approved loan account balances, of current profits earned af ter December 31, 1974, and dividends declared on profits from trad ing earned after December 31, 1974, provided that the remittance does not involve the exces- 374 sive use of local credit facilities. The physical export f rom South A f r ica of nonresident-owned securities is permitted, except by emigrants on their departure. There are two ways in which holders of financial rand can repatriate funds f rom South A f r i c a: ( 1) by export- ing South African shares bought on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, provided that they have been restric- tively endorsed, and selling them outside South A f r ica at a price which may involve a p rem ium or a discount on the South A f r ican quo ta t ion; and (2) by selling the funds to ano ther non res ident for fo re ign currency. Gold Residents of South A f r i ca may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in South A f r i ca for num i sma t ic and investment purposes. W i th this exception, residents of South A f r ica other than the mone ta ry authorities, authorized dealers, registered gold producers, and authorized indu s t r ial and profess ional users are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any fo rm other than jewe lry, at home or abroad. All exports of gold require the pr ior approval of the Reserve Bank; the approval au tho r i ty has been delegated to au tho r ized dealers in respect of exports of jewe lry con s t i tu t ing the personal effec ts of a trave ler (sub ject to a w r i t ten declaration to the effect that the jewe lry w i ll be b rought back to South A f r i ca on the traveler's r e t u r n) and in respect of expor ts of gold jewe lry by m a n u f a c t u r i ng jewelers (except for exports to Bo tswana, Ma law i, Zamb ia, and Z imb abw e ), subject to a w r i t t en declara- tion that the ar t ic les a re in f u l ly m a n u f a c t u r ed fo rm and that the gold con tent of each does not exceed 75 per cent of the selling price to the u l t im a te con- signee. Fur thermore, a f ter reference and app roval by the Reserve Bank, residents are allowed to export cur- rency coins, in c lud ing cer ta in gold coins, for sale to num isma t is ts. The gold m i n i ng indu s t ry must sell its output to the Reserve Bank w i th in one mon th of pro- duction. As a special concession mines may re ta in approximately one th i rd of the ir produc t ion for the purpose of m in t ing gold coins. The M int f rom t ime to t ime strikes gold coins and the K ruge r rand w i thout a face value, which are legal tender but do not c ircu la te in South A f r ica; these are made available in l im i ted numbers to resident collectors, while the bu lk is sold abroad. Changes during 1980 January 1. Among mod if ica t ions of existing practice, the Reserve Bank ceased to provide fo rwa rd cover for loans and credits obtained by the Treasury and other specified public sector ins t i tu t ions in currencies other than the U.S. dollar; fo rwa rd cover for such loans and credits would hencefor th have to be negotiated through normal bank ing channels by the ins t i tu t ions themselves. February 1. The rema in ing preferen t ial customs tar- iffs ("imperial preferences") that South Afr ica had ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution granted to imports f rom Commonwealth countries were abolished. February 26. The period for which South A f r ican exporters may grant credit was increased f rom 6 months to up to 12 months, provided that such credit was neces- sary in the particular trade or to protect an existing export market or to capture a new market. February 26. The limit of R 100,000 for each fam i ly previously applied to transfers of net income f rom an emigrant's blocked assets at the commercial rand rate of exchange was abolished. March 1. An import surcharge of 7.5 per cent levied on imports into the customs un ion was abolished. March 26. Travel, family maintenance, and study allowances, and the annual limit on gifts were increased substantially. The Reserve Bank also announced that it would grant approval more readily for the early repay- ment of certain loans. April 18. The Reserve Bank raised the forward pre- mium of the rand against the U.S. dollar f rom 2.5 per cent to 12 per cent, to stem the outflow of short-term capital resulting from the large d ifferen t ial between domestic and foreign rates of interest. It was also announced that the forward premiums would be adjusted from time to time on the basis of change in interest rates and other economic conditions. SOUTH AFRICA May 19. The South Afr ican Credit Guarantee Insur- ance Corporation set a limit of 25 per cent of previous year's sales on credit insurance for exports to Zimbabwe. July 11. New import control procedures, already partly introduced du r ing the first half of the year, for- mally came into force: import categories under the Import Control Regulations were reduced f rom f o ur to three, involving the e l im ina t ion of the category of imports subject to quotas, with most of the goods pre- viously subject to quota being reclassified to a category under which importers could obtain licenses for their "full reasonable requirements." Import items were classified into 30 product groups for the purpose of import licenses and such licenses were made non in te r- changeable among groups. A number of items were freed f rom all import controls, while several other items were removed f rom the category of imports requiring specific licenses for each shipment. September 23. A new range of frac t ional Krugerrands in denominations of %, %, and Wo rand was offered for sale. November 17. The number of forward exchange rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Reserve Bank was raised from three to ten (a 1-month to 3-month rate, and nine monthly rates ranging f rom 4 to 12 months fo rwa rd ). 375 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN (Position on January 27 ,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Spain is the Spanish Peseta. The authorities of Spain do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are determined largely on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange markets. However, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates and to maintain sta- bility in the exchange market. Official buy ing and sell- ing rates for specified currencies1 are fixed daily by the Bank of Spain (the central b a n k ), acting in consulta- tion with the authorized banks. On December 31, 1980 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were Ptas 79.135 and Ptas 79.365, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The Bank of Spain also quotes each week buying and selling rates for banknotes in specified currencies. Purchases and sales of clearing currencies are centralized in the Bank of Spain, which publishes the rates at which it settles direct transactions. These rates are the same as the pre- vailing rates for the U.S. dollar. Authorized banks are allowed to operate in fore ign markets for spot and fo rwa rd transactions. Forward cover may be provided to residents for all permitted foreign exchange receipts and for import payments. For- ward contracts may not exceed 12 months, and forward purchases and sales of exchange are restricted to cur- rencies admitted to the Madrid foreign exchange mar- ket. In addition, the forward peseta position of an indi- vidual bank must not reflect a net buying or selling balance at the close of each day. Exchange Control Territory The Peninsular Territories of the Spanish State, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Ceuta, and Melilla constitute a single exchange control territory. Administration of Control The guidelines on foreign exchange policy are formu- lated by an interministerial commission. The Ministry of Economy and Commerce is in charge of administra- tive func t ions connected with exchange control. The Bank of Spain is in charge of operative func t ions, in particular, the hand l ing of external reserves. It is also responsible for the authorization of foreign currency loans to residents for non trade purposes. Trade con- trols are administered by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce; the latter is also in charge of the controls over Spanish investment abroad, private Spanish lend- ing abroad, foreign financing of trade, and the registra- 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian f rancs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, Finnish ma rkkaa, French f rancs, Irish pounds, Italian l ire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norweg ian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. dollars. 376 tion of foreign investments in Spain. Contracts relating to technological matters must be registered with the Ministry of Indus t ry and Energy. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles may be made in any specified currency,1 but they are usually made in the currency of the coun- try of origin or destination. There are no bilateral pay- ments arrangements. Nonresident Accounts There are several types of nonresident accounts, as follows: Convertible Peseta Accounts. A Accounts and B Accounts in pesetas have been abolished, and nonresi- dents are now permitted to hold Convertible Peseta Accounts, balances in which can be freely converted into foreign currency; existing peseta balances in A Accounts and B Accounts automatically become convertible peseta balances. These Convertible Peseta Accounts may be credited with the proceeds of foreign currency sold in the Spanish foreign currency market, with authorized payments made by residents to nonresidents as a result of any balance of payments transaction, with accrued interest on such accounts, and w i th t ran s fer f rom other such accounts. Convertible Peseta Accounts may be debited for purchases of equivalent amoun ts of foreign currency and banknotes in the Spanish foreign currency market, for authorized payments in pesetas to residents as a result of any balance of payments transaction, for cash drawings by nonresidents, and for transfers to other peseta accounts. Interest on Convertible Peseta Accounts can be freely established by authorized banks, and balances are not subject to reserve requirements. Balances in Convertible Peseta Accounts are eligible for forward cover in the Spanish forward exchange market. External Accounts in Internal Pesetas are designed to hold nonresidents' f u n ds accruing in Spain that are not transferable abroad. Automatic approval is given to open such accounts. Balances are freely negotiable between nonresidents holding such accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with ( 1) the fu ll pro- ceeds of the sale by a nonresident to a resident of Spanish real estate originally acquired with pesetas from an External Account in Internal Pesetas; (2) the full proceeds of the sale by a nonresident to a resident of Spanish shares and fixed-interest securities that have been acquired with pesetas from an External Account in Internal Pesetas and have been held for less than three years consecutively by the same owner2; (3) inter- 2 The proceeds of such securities that have been held for at least three years consecutively are transferable abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution est received on balances held in these accounts; and (4) transfers from any other External Accounts in Internal Pesetas. They may be debited freely for (1) payments of any amount of personal expenses in Spain of the account holder and his close relatives (a manager's personal expenses if the account is opened in the name of a juridical p e r son ); (2) the purchase of shares quoted on the stock exchange and of Spanish fixed-interest securities; ( 3) the purchase for the use of the account holder (provided that the account holder is a nonresident physical person) of urban and rural properties that do not represent investment for com- mercial, industrial, or agricultural purposes (applicable to ru ral properties only if the account holder is of Spanish na t iona l i ty ); (4) the purchase of National Lottery tickets; and (5) transfers to any other External Accounts in Internal Pesetas. All other entries on these accounts require prior authorization, and the accounts may not be overdrawn. Nonresident Accounts in Convertible Foreign Cur- rencies may be held by nonresidents; resident foreign nationals may ma in ta in such accounts only if opened before January 1, 1968, in order to ma in ta in acquired rights. The deposits may be either sight or time. The accounts may be credited with convertible currencies quoted in the Spanish exchange market and with any amount of interest. They may be debited freely for reconversion into the currency initially deposited, for the purchase of other convertible currencies quoted in the Spanish exchange market, and for conversion into pesetas, including the transfer to a Convertible Peseta Account. Overdrafts are prohibited except for mail credits in favor of foreign banks. Emigrants' Accounts. Since October 29, 1970, com- mercial banks have been authorized to open savings accounts in convertible pesetas for Spanish citizens work- ing abroad. The regulations were modified by Royal Decree No. 1222/77. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are admitted under the following arrangements: (1) free imports, (2) global quotas, (3) state trading, and (4) individual licensing, also referred to as the "bilateral import regime." All imports require either an import license or an "import declara- tion" issued by the Directorate-General of Tariff Policy and Imports. Provided that import prices are not con- sidered abnormal, import declarations are issued freely for a large number of goods (mostly foodstuffs not under state trading, raw materials, capital goods, and spare parts, and also some consumer goods) included in an import free list that applies to most countries; the free list also applies to specified imports from Iran and Japan.3 All other imports require licenses. SPAIN There are global quotas for specified imports from countries to which the free list applies, but licenses are usually granted for larger amounts.4 With certain excep- tions, the global quota regime also applies to goods of Japanese origin. Licenses for imports f rom Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and the U.S.S.R. are issued freely. Imports of certain agricul- tu ral products, some raw materials, petroleum products, and tobacco are state traded; some goods fo rma l ly listed as being subject to state trad ing, such as feedgrains and raw cotton, may be free ly imported by private traders. Imports of certain agricultural products that are free of quan t i ta t ive restriction and previously were state traded are subject to variable import levies. Import subsidies are paid on certain foods tu f fs and specified other essential commodities. Exchange in the appro- priate currency to pay for authorized impor ts is granted freely. Except for capital goods, suppliers' credit for imports is not normally permitted to exceed 90 days. All import transac t ions must be domiciled with an authorized bank, and the import payment must be made through the bank of dom ic i l ia t ion; exempt f rom domi- ciliation are transac t ions valued at less than Ptas 500,000, provided that payment is to be made within one year. Payments for Invisibles Banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange freely for listed cu r rent invisibles, provided that the request is supported by appropriate documents to ve r i fy the authenticity of the transaction. Holders of Spanish securities (exc lud ing securities issued by private com- panies and acquired through direct subscr ip t ion) may freely t ran s fer abroad accrued interest, dividends, and proceeds f rom the disposal of subscription rights; the securities must have been purchased with convertible pesetas, with pesetas resulting from the sale of foreign exchange, or with pesetas released f rom External Accounts in Internal Pesetas. Profits and dividends on direct investments are also freely transferable abroad. Rents on nonresident-owned real estate are transferable, provided that the purchase price has been paid in fu l l. A general license permits the reinsurance abroad of risks insured in Spain with Spanish firms or with foreign insurance companies operating in Spain. Unless special authorization is otherwise gran ted, insurance contracts abroad are restricted to cover for exports and imports of goods and related operations. Payments up to Ptas 25,0005 for any purpose may be made without any supporting documents. The basic exchange allowance for tourism is Ptas 80,000 a person a journey, with an annu al maximum of Ptas 320,000. The authorized banks are free to sell the equivalent of Ptas 200,000 a person for each business trip, with an annual max imum of Ptas 1.4 million, and any amount 3 The import f ree list does not apply to Afghanistan, Albania, Andorra, Bhu tan, People's Republic of China, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongolia, Nepal, San Marino, Tibet, U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. 4 There are separate global quotas for imports of the same com- modities f rom EC countries. 5 In Feb rua ry 1981 this amount was increased to Ptas 50,000. 377 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN for travel for education or health care. Travelers may take with them Ptas 20,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. The sale of foreign exchange for amounts in excess of the above limits and for current invisibles not specifically listed requires a prior declaration to the Ministry of Economy and Commerce (Directorate- General of External Transac t ions). Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are subject to prior licensing by the Direc- torate-General of Exportation. All export proceeds must be sold in the exchange market w i th in 15 days of receipt. Certain agricultural products may be sub- ject to an export tax, but this practice is unusual. Since April 1980 some goods included in a list published by the Directorate-General of Exportation may be exported without a license if payment is made in convertible foreign currency and within six months of export; in this case, on ly a declaration before the customs is required. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange proceeds f rom invisibles must be sold in the exchange market or to the Bank of Spain through authorized banks within 15 days of receipt. Travelers may br ing in a maximum of Ptas 100,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. Capital 1. Inward Transfers (a) Foreign direct investments. As a general rule, there are no restrictions on foreign capital investments which lead to ownership of up to 50 per cent of the capital of Spanish companies. Prior administrative authorization is normally required for foreign invest- ments of more than 50 per cent. Special foreign par- ticipation ratios and regulations apply to certain spe- cific activities.6 Thus, foreign capital investments are not allowed in defense industries or the news media, while in public service companies foreign capital hold- ings may not exceed 25 per cent. Foreign investment in Spanish companies manu fac tu r ing capital goods that are listed in the Appendix List of the Customs Code requires registration only; if no notification to the con- trary has been received within 30 days, the registration may be deemed an authorization. Foreign investors may also acquire up to 100 per cent of the capital of Spanish companies, provided that the investment meets the following conditions: the investment must be for more than Ptas 100 million, at least 100 new jobs must be created, the investment must 6 The fore ign content of investment by Spanish companies with fore ign par t ic ipa t ion is determined in the following manne r: (1) if fo re ign participation exceeds 50 per cent, the investment is considered 100 per cent fo re ign; (2) if fo re ign participation is over 25 per cent but equal to or less than 50 per cent, the investment is considered fo re ign to the extent of such par t ic ipa t ion; nevertheless, if foreign investors enjoy a position of dominance, the investment is considered 100 per cent fo re ign; and (3) if foreign participation is 25 per cent or less or if there is Spanish Government participation, the investment is considered as domestic. 378 be likely to have a favorable effect on Spain's balance of payments, and it must not give rise to outflows of exchange in the fo rm of royalty payments for technical assistance. Foreign direct investments are also authorized in Spanish companies that are in the process of increasing their capital. This may be effected through the pur- chase of shares or investment in the capital, provided that the company creates 100 permanent jobs, that the foreign cu r rency account shows a positive balance a f ter one year of production, that the total capital and reserves of the company are increased by at least 30 per cent, and that at least Ptas 100 m i l l ion is invested in the purchase of shares. Foreign investments may be effected by t ran s fe r r ing currencies that are negotiable in the Spanish exchange market, by us ing convertible pesetas, by br ing ing in capital goods, by reinvesting profits or capital trans- ferable under the Foreign Investment Law, or by pro- viding technology, patents, or licenses. Proceeds, includ- ing capital gains, f rom the liquidation of foreign direct investments may be transferred freely. (b) Portfolio investments. Purchases by nonresidents of shares in most Spanish companies are permitted freely up to the percentages applicable to direct invest- ment. This applies to shares acquired by Spaniards resident abroad, as well as by resident or nonresident foreigners, either with convertible pesetas or with pesetas resulting f rom the conversion of foreign currencies negotiable in the Spanish exchange market. Proceeds, including capital gains, from the liquidation of such shares may be transferred abroad at any time or used for fu r ther purchases of shares.7 Purchases by non- residents of bonds and other fixed-income securities representing debts of either Spanish companies or the Spanish Government and its agencies are unrestricted when financed as indicated in this paragraph, and the fu ll sales proceeds are transferable. (c) Real estate investments. Investment in Spanish real estate by nonresidents is, w i th in certain limits,8 freely permitted if financed with pesetas derived from convertible currencies or from balances in Convertible Peseta Accounts held by nonresidents. The Ministry of Economy and Commerce has empowered authorized banks to provide the investor with a document certifying that he owns such pesetas; this is the only requirement for official registration of the change in ownership. Certain investments in real estate may also be financed from External Accounts in Internal Pesetas. Irrespec- tive of the method of financing, rural properties pur- 7 However, if the purchase was made with in ternal pesetas, the owner of the shares must hold them for three years, a f ter which he may t rans fer the l iqu ida t ion proceeds abroad. 8 Purchases of real estate by nonresident physical persons of foreign nationality, if f inanced with f u n ds imported f rom abroad, are freely perm i t ted by a general au tho r iza t ion, as follows: (1) one plot not exceeding 5,000 square meters for one single-family dwelling for per- sonal use, (2) the land needed for the construction of an apar tment bu i ld ing, and ( 3) up to three apar tmen ts in a single apa r tment build- ing. There are separate regulations governing the purchase of business premises. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution chased may not exceed 4 hectares of irrigated land or 20 hectares of unirrigated land. When Spanish real estate is sold to a resident, the full sales proceeds are transferable if the initial purchase was financed with convertible foreign currency or with pesetas from an External Account in Convertible Pesetas or a Con- vertible Peseta Account. If the initial purchase was financed with pesetas f rom an External Account in Internal Pesetas, no part of the sale proceeds is transferable. (d) Bank credit. Local bank credit extended at med ium term or long term to Spanish firms with for- eign participation in excess of 25 per cent is subject to special directives, but such credit may be granted for up to 18 months, irrespective of the degree of foreign participation, on the same conditions as are applied to who l ly Spanish-owned firms. (e) Other credits. The granting of loans by nonresi- dents to residents requires authorization by the Bank of Spain. For loans with an average term to ma tur i ty of one year or more, approval is granted automatically if the application is not questioned or rejected within 15 work ing days by the Bank of Spain. Suppliers' credits extended to residents by nonresidents require authorization by the Ministry of Economy and Com- merce. 2. Outward Transfers (a) Direct investments. Direct investments abroad by residents are permitted freely provided one of the following conditions is met: (1) the share of the Span- ish investment is at least 20 per cent of the capital of the foreign company; (2) the Spanish investor par t ic i- pates in the management of the foreign company or otherwise exercises an important influence over it; or ( 3) the foreign company uses exclusively or predomi- nan t ly technology provided by the Spanish investor. Direct investment projects abroad must be declared to the Directorate-General of External Transactions for verification of authenticity and for statistical control. If no administrative notification is received regarding the project within 30 days of the declaration, the parties concerned may proceed with the investment. The invest- ment must be carried out, in principle, within a period of six months. Direct investments in foreign companies leading to the purchase and holding of securities and the purchase of real estate are not liberalized. (b) Portfolio investments. Banks, savings institutions, and insurance companies may purchase foreign securi- ties up to 10 per cent of the increase in their own resources. In the case of existing establishments, the increased resources are calculated f rom the date on which Royal Decree No. 2236/79 of September 14, 1979 (prov id ing for the liberalization of Spanish invest- men ts abroad) became effective; for new establishments the calculation is made f rom the date on which the m in imum legal requirements for subscribed and paid-up capital are effective. Spanish residents may purchase SPAIN freely fixed-income securities denominated in foreign exchange and issued by Spanish private and public insti- tutions and by international organizations in which Spain is a member. Purchases of securities referred to above must be reported to the Directorate-General of External Transactions. All other Spanish investments abroad require prior authorization, which is handled by the Directorate- General of External Transactions if the investment does not exceed Ptas 100 million, and by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce in the case of higher amounts. (c) Loans. Requests by nonbank residents to grant loans to nonresidents and for suppliers' credits f rom Spanish residents to nonresidents require authorization by the M in i s t ry of Economy and Commerce. There has been no experience with the issuing of bonds in the Spanish capital market by nonresidents, nor with short-term credits granted by Spanish banks to nonresidents other than certain export credits granted directly to fo re ign importers. Credits to nonresidents for transactions w i th Spain may, however, be authorized by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Further- more, authorized banks may extend various types of credit to nonresidents, provided that this credit is financed w i th f u n ds deposited in Spain in nonresident convertible currency accounts; some forms of such credit do not require prior approval by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold in any fo rm in Spain. Purchases of gold, silver, and p la t inum ingots are subject to a luxury tax of 30 per cent, but gold pur- chased for industrial use is exempt f rom the tax. Imports of gold are subject to quotas issued by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Such quotas are granted to indus tr ial users for purposes of manu fac- tur ing jewelry and other articles. Changes during 1980 January 25. Royal Decree No. 128/80 extended for three months through April 26 the temporary across- the-board import du ty reductions which had come into force on Ap r il 28, 1979 (see also en try for April 26, below). March 1. Permission to ma in ta in Emigrants' Accounts in convertible pesetas was extended to Spanish workers employed on fore ign vessels (M in is t ry of Commerce and Tourism Circular No. 15 /80 ). March 12. The Directorate-General of Exportation issued a resolution specifying the goods and the con- ditions for which prior licensing was not required. April 1. The regulations governing forward exchange operations by authorized banks were issued in Bank of Spain Circular No. 10: forward contracts may not exceed 12 months, and only those currencies admitted to the Madrid foreign exchange market may be pur- 379 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN chased fo rwa rd; authorized banks may provide forward exchange cover to residents against all permitted foreign exchange receipts and for import payments; the terms of fo rwa rd contracts must coincide with the terms of the commercial or financial transaction which was being covered. April 26. Royal Decree No. 764/80 modified and extended through July 26 the temporary across-the- board import duty reductions: for ad valorem rates, the reductions amounted to 18 per cent for duties f rom 10 to 20 per cent, 27 per cent for duties from 20 to 30 per cent, and 36 per cent for du ty rates exceeding 30 per cent, with the reductions being cumulative. Spe- cific duties were reduced by 13 per cent. These reduc- tions were subsequently extended through 1980. June 2. The Irish pound was added to the list of currencies admitted to the Madrid foreign exchange market. July 1. The first tar iff reductions under the EFTA- Spain multilateral agreement came into force. July 4. Royal Decree No. 1323/80 was issued, reduc- ing import tar iffs for GATT members, in line with the Tokyo Round negotiations. July 28. Royal Decree No. 1552/80 increased by 800,000 metric tons, to 2 million metric tons, the duty- free quota for the importation of coal suitable for the generation of electricity and for the cement industry. September 25. A 30 per cent luxury tax was imposed on purchases of gold, silver, and platinum ingots, but gold purchased for industrial use was exempt from the tax. November 8. Royal Decree No. 2402/80 was issued, defining the scope of administrative intervention for specified external transactions. November 11. In a liberalization of authorization procedures for foreign borrowing by residents, it was announced that for loans with an average term of ma tu r i ty of at least one year, applications for authoriza- tion would hencefor th be approved automatically after 15 working days unless questioned or turned down within that period by the Bank of Spain (Exchange Circular No. 15). The following changes took place in Janua ry 1981: January 27. Beginning from this date, the forward peseta position of an individual bank might not reflect a net buying or selling balance at the close of each day. January 27. Foreign Accounts in Pesetas for Pay- ments in Spain (A Accoun ts) and Foreign Accounts in Convertible Pesetas (B Accounts) held by nonresidents were abolished, and peseta balances in these accounts automatically became balances in Convertible Peseta Accounts. Such balances could be freely converted into foreign currency. 380 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sri Lanka is the Sri Lanka Rupee. The authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are deter- mined largely on the basis of demand and supply con- ditions in the exchange market. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency. The Central Bank determines daily the official exchange rates of commercial banks for their customers for telegraphic transfers in respect of six designated currencies. The Central Bank also purchases and sells these currencies on a spot basis at the middle rate so established. The Central Bank has established spreads for commercial banks between their buying and selling rates equivalent to SL Rs 1.50 per US$100 and SL Rs 3.00 per <£ stg. 100. Spreads have also been established for the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Indian rupee, and the Japanese yen. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The Central Bank provides fo rwa rd cover only to commercial banks and in U.S. dollars only. At the end of 1980, forward purchases of U.S. dollars by the Cen- tral Bank was at a discount against spot by SL Rs 2.50 per US$100 for one month's cover, and SL Rs 9.00 per US$100 for the max imum period of six months' cover. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Department of Exchange Control of the Central Bank as agent of the Government. All remittances of foreign exchange in Sri Lanka must normally be made through commer- cial banks authorized to carry out operations in foreign currencies in accordance with the exchange control procedures prescribed by the Controller of Exchange. Remittances may also be made through post offices, under permits issued by the Controller of Exchange. The Foreign Investment Advisory Committee handles applications relating to foreign investment. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Sri Lanka has bilateral payments agreements1 must be made through the relevant special accounts. Payments in respect of t rade with Pakistan also are effected through special accounts. Payments to, and receipts f rom, member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (i.e., Bangladesh, Burma, India, Iran, Nepal, and Pak is tan) in respect of current transactions (other than those relating to petro- leum, na tural gas, and their produc ts) must be effected in Asian Monetary Units or in the currency of a member of the Asian Clearing Union. 1 People's Republic of China and Syrian Arab Republic. Since Janua ry 1, 1980 only settlements relating to t rade in rice and rubber are channeled through the bilateral payments a r rangement between the People's Republic of China and Sri Lanka; all other t rade is settled in convertible currency. The bilateral paymen ts agreement with the Syrian Arab Republic is inoperative. For settlements with all other countries, payments for imports may be made in any foreign currency or in Sri Lanka rupees. Other payments may be made either in the currency of the country to which the payment is due or by crediting Sri Lanka rupees to an External Rupee Account. Proceeds f rom exports must be received in designated foreign currencies.2 Other receipts may be accepted in Sri Lanka rupees f rom an External Rupee Account or in any designated foreign currency.2 Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may be held in Sri Lanka by foreign banks, firms, and companies registered outside Sri Lanka and by persons residing abroad. A local credit to these accounts, which is tan tamount to approval for remittance abroad, and debits in respect of remit- tances abroad require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Nonresident blocked accounts are used for holding funds that have not been accepted for transfer abroad, usually funds owned by nonresidents, repatriates, and emigrants. Authorized dealers are permitted to debit these accounts for local disbursements and credit them on account of pensions, income tax refunds, and profits and dividends w i thout prior approval. Funds on blocked accounts may be used in Sri Lanka for certain invest- ments, subject to the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Proceeds from the liquidation of such invest- ments must be credited to blocked accounts. Remit- tances up to a max imum of SL Rs 200,000 are allowed f rom these accounts, without the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Remittance of interest accrued to blocked accounts is fu l ly transferab le af ter deduction of taxes. Also retained in blocked accounts is a proportion of local currency earnings, derived f rom the exhibition of foreign-owned films, if the tak ings exceed the amount specified in the import license; such retained funds may be used by the owner for certain specified purposes, including the mak ing of films in Sri Lanka. Sri Lanka nationals resident abroad are allowed to maintain nonresident foreign currency accounts in Sri Lanka in convertible currencies.3 Credits to the accounts are limited to the proceeds of remittances f rom abroad and money brought into the country by individuals at the time of arr iva l; in addition, interest payments in these four convertible currencies may be credited to the accounts. These accounts may be freely debited with- out exchange control approval for payments abroad or w i th in Sri Lanka in foreign currency, while the account 2 Australian dollars, Belgian f rancs, Canad ian dollars, Danish k rone r, deutsche m a rk, French f rancs, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish k rone r, Swiss f r an c s, and U.S. dollars. 3 In deutsche ma rk, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 381 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA holder is outside Sri Lanka, and for a period of ten years from the date of arrival of the account holder for tak ing up permanent residence in Sri Lanka. Commercial banks operating in Sri Lanka may estab- lish a Foreign Currency Bank ing Unit. These un i ts may accept time and demand deposits in any designated fo r- eign currency f rom nonresidents and f rom resident enter- prises in the Greater Colombo Economic Commission (GCEC), the free trade zone, and they may extend loans and advances to any nonresident and to any resi- dent enterprise having GCEC status in any designated foreign currency. In add i t ion, the Foreign Currency Banking Units are allowed to accept t ime and demand deposits from and grant loans and advances to any other resident approved by the Central Bank for such purposes as may be approved by the Cen tral Bank. Imports and Import Payments Except for certain specified imports, no prior licensing is required. Imports that are subject to prior l icens ing include those subject to control for security reasons, pre- cious metals, alcohol, and certain consumer goods, in addition to several ma jor food items, i.e., rice, flour, and wheat grains. Imports of specified i tem s4 are restricted to govern- ment or state corporations; these are referred to as "reserved items." Prior approval procedures apply to certain imports of capital goods: certain mach inery imports relating to foreign inves tment require the approval of the Foreign Investment Adv isory Com- mittee, and machinery imports relating to local invest- ment require the prior approval of the Local Inves tment Advisory Committee; no prior approval is required if any single consignment does not exceed SL Rs 700,000. Holders of balances in Convertible Rupee Accounts, which were abolished for new credits as of Novem- ber 16, 1977, may use these funds to pay for cer ta in imports, subject to licensing by the Controller of Imports and Exports. Except for specified transactions, impo r ts can be effected only against sight letters of credit. An author- ized dealer may approve an application to remit fore ign exchange or to credit a Nonresident Account aga inst an application for the opening of a letter of credit, and proof of a valid import license, when applicable. These requirements do not apply where the value of a consign- ment is less than SL Rs 5,000 and is for the direct use of the importer. Payments for Invisibles Certain payments for invisibles requ i re exchange con- trol permission. For travel abroad, residents of Sri Lanka are allowed a basic foreign exchange allowance of Ind ian rupees 2,000 an adult and Ind ian rupees 1,000 a child under 12 years, once every two years, for travel * These include Maldive fish, dried fish f rom India and Pakistan, dates, chillies, onions, potatoes, beedi leaves, petroleum products, films, consumer textiles, caustic soda, tea chests, j u te hessian, mamo t ies, and matches. 382 to the "Indian group of countries" (def ined as Bangla- desh, Bu rma, India, Maldives, Nepal, and P ak i s t an ); the U.S. dollar or pound sterling equivalents of these amounts may be allowed. In add i t ion, basic allowances of <£ stg. 500 for an adu lt and £ stg. 250 for a child under 12 years of age, are allowed every f o ur years for travel to other countries. Add i t ional fore ign exchange is provided to pay for air fares. The prior approval by the Central Bank is not required for these sales of exchange. Allowances for off ic ial travel require a ce r t i f ica te f rom the head of the relevant in s t i tu t ion. Banks can also provide fo re ign exchange for bus iness travel when the request is accompanied by a letter f rom the cha i rman, director, pa r tne r, or sole propr ie tor of the company recommending the pa r t icu lar t r ip abroad. In those cases, exchange is allowed at the ra te of US$45 a day, up to a m a x im um of 30 days, for the Ind i an group of countries and US$90 a day, also up to a m a x im um of 30 days, for other des t ina t ions. These l im i ts apply to cha irmen, directors, pa r tne rs, and sole proprietors of companies; other business executives may ob ta in up to US$30 a day for the Ind ian g roup of coun t r ies and up to US$65 a day, up to a m a x im um of 30 days, for other countries. Foreign exchange may be released for medical trea t- ment abroad if any specialist, whether in government service or in p r iva te prac t ice, cer t if ies that equa l ly effec- tive t rea tment is not ava i lab le in Sri Lanka. The l im i ts for t r e a tm ent in the I n d i an g roup of coun t r ies a re £ stg. 130 for an a d u lt and £ stg. 65 for a ch i ld a mon th. For other d e s t in a t ions the m o n t h ly a l lowance is £ stg. 500 for adu l ts and £ stg. 250 for ch i ld ren. Exchange for emergency t ravel for persons who have a lready used the basic a l lowance may be released w i th- out prior app roval in amoun ts up to I n d i an rupees 750 to the Ind i an g roup of coun t r ies and £ stg. 200 to other countries. Au tho r ized dealers are also allowed to sell foreign exchange for adve r t i s ing charges and for sub- scriptions and paymen ts to i n t e r n a t i o n al tou r i st orga- nizations. Paymen ts for o ther types of t ravel a l lowance require pr ior approval by the Central Bank. The prov is ion of fo re ign exchange and passage money for educational purposes at a recognized u n i v e r s i ty or technical i n s t i t u te at u n d e r g r a d u a te or pos tg radua te levels, or for specialized techn ical t r a i n i ng is allowed by authorized dealers. Foreign exchange is made ava i lab le up to Ind ian rupees 3,600 a year for pos tgradua te stu- dents and Ind i an rupees 3,000 a year for unde rg rad- uate students in the Ind ian group of coun tr ies, and £ stg. 1,500 a year for pos tg radua te s tuden ts and £ stg. 1,200 a year for unde rg radua te s tud en ts in other countries, in add i t ion to ac tual fees and allowances for books. Ind ian and Pak is tani n a t ion a ls are p e rm i t t ed to rem it for f am i ly ma in tenance a m ax imum of two th i rds of their gross mon th ly income. Other fore ign na t iona ls are permitted to rem it £ stg. 165 a mon th for a w i fe, £ stg. 180 for a boy in a senior school, £ stg. 160 for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution a girl in a senior school, <£ stg. 125 for a boy in a jun ior school, and <£ stg. 115 for a girl in a jun ior school, up to a maximum of one third of the gross monthly income of the parent; any excess of the total of such remittances over one th ird of gross monthly income is treated as an anticipatory transfer against the expa- triate's entitlement to remit assets at the time of repa- triation. Temporary residents on short-term contracts are allowed to remit up to two th irds of their gross monthly income. Nationals of Sri Lanka are not granted foreign exchange for fam i ly remittances. Commissions up to 5 per cent of the c.i.f. va lue are allowed on export orders secured through agents abroad. No remittances for insurance on exports are permitted; these must be covered with the Insurance Corporation of Sri Lanka. Holders of f u n ds in Convertible Rupee Accounts w i th credit balances outstanding as of November 15, 1977 may use these funds for travel expenditures and other current invisibles without the prior approval by the Controller of Exchange. Banks are authorized, w i thout prior exchange control approval, to provide fo re ign exchange for subscriptions to professional institutions, fees in respect of fo re ign exam ina t ions held in Sri Lanka, and paymen ts for the import of material for correspondence courses. Profit remittances and rem i t tances of d iv idends to nonresident shareholders of rupee companies may be effected through commercial banks w i thout prior exchange control approval if they relate to the year of application, do not include und is t r ibu ted profits f rom previous years, and do not include transfers f rom reserves and profits resulting f rom the sale of fixed assets. For in te r im profits, the following documents should be furn ished: (1) a certificate f rom the company's auditors confirming that the amount to be rem i t ted represents profits for the period to which it relates; ( 2) a pre l im inary computation of the rem i t tab le profits; ( 3) a tax clearance (only in the case of nonresident pa r tne r s) in respect of the profits to be remitted; (4) a certificate conf irm ing that the beneficiary is resident abroad; and (5) a schedule ind ica t ing the names of the benef ic iar ies and the net amount due to each. For final prof i ts, sub- mission of the following documents is requ i red: (a) an audited copy of the company's prof it and loss account and the balance sheet for the year to which the remit- tance relates; (b) a certificate f rom the aud i tors con- firming that the remittance represents the final install- ment of the profits, declared in respect of the year under reference; and (c) a computation of the rem i t tab le profits, and also the documents listed in ( 3 ), ( 4 ), and (5) required for the remittance of interim profits. Remittances of interim dividends can be made sub- ject to the submission of the following documen ts: ( 1) a certificate from the company's auditors con f i rm ing that the amount to be remitted represents only dividends for the period to which it relates; (2) a certification that SRI LANKA the rem i t tance cons t i tu tes an i n t e r im d iv idend based on the unaud i ted accounts for the per iod; ( 3) a ce r t i f ica te confirming that the beneficiary is a res ident outside Sri Lanka; and (4) a schedule ind ica t ing the names of the beneficiaries and the net amoun ts due to them. The remittance of a final d iv idend requ i res the subm iss ion of (a) an aud i ted copy of the company's p ro f it and loss account and the balance sheet for the year to which the rem i t tance relates; (b) a ce r t i f ica te f rom the aud i to rs conf irm ing that the rem i t tance represen ts d iv id ends o n ly for the period to wh ich it relates; and (c) the documen ts listed in (3) and (4) requ i red for the r em i t t a n ce of in ter im dividends. Resident n o n n a t i o n a ls may m a i n t a in f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy accounts w i th domestic comme rc ial b a n ks in any of ten designated cu r r en c i e s5 w i thout p r ior exchange control approval. These accoun ts mu st be opera ted by the domestic u n it of the b ank and not by i ts Fore ign Cu r- rency B a n k i ng Un i t. The accounts may be cu r ren t, savings, or deposit accoun ts, but w i t h d r aw al of f u n ds by checks is not perm i t ted. Credits to these accounts are limited to inw a rd r em i t t an c es and to amoun ts in Sri Lanka rupees au tho r ized by the Exchange Con tro l ler for rem i t tance abroad; deb i ts a re l im i t ed to ou twa rd rem i t tances and to paymen ts in f o r e i gn cu r r en cy con- verted in to Sri Lanka rupees. Nonres ident t rave le rs may t a ke out fo r e ign exchange declared to the cus toms at the t ime of en t ry. U n s p e nt rupee ba lances f r om fo re ign exchange sold by non res i- dent travelers may be reconver ted i n to fo r e ign cu r rency, provided that the Cus toms Dec la ra t ion Card ind ica tes that at least the equ iva lent of such ba lances had been brought in to S ri L a n k a. Res iden ts may t ake out fo re ign currency notes and coin not exceeding £, stg. 20 a per- son (£, stg. 10 for ch i ld ren und er 12 y e a r s) out of the exchange au tho r ized for trave l. All persons leaving Sri Lanka may take out domestic cu r rency notes not exceed- ing SL Rs 250 a person. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to coun tr ies w i th which Sri L a n ka m a i n t a i ns bilateral paymen ts agreements are sub ject to the approval of the Director of Commerce. A n um b er of specified items requ i re p r ior l icens ing by the Con t ro l ler of Impor ts and Exports. Exports of rubber to the People's Repub- lic of Ch ina, Po land, Roman ia, and the U.S.S.R. are effected under state t rad ing. The State Gem Corpora- tion has con t rol of exports of gems and jewelry. Expor ts of gems by the p r iva te sector requ ire pr ior approval, and the Corporation handles exports in the name of m ine rs who wish to export gems. Re-exports of nonmone ta ry gold, silver, d iamonds, and p l a t i n um are allowed only in special circumstances. Foreign exchange proceeds f rom exports must be col- lected, u su a l ly w i th in six mon ths of the da te of ship- 5 Deutsche m a r k, French f ranc s, Hong Kong dollars, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds s ter l ing, Singapore dollars, Swedish kroner, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. dollars. 383 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA ment, except in the case of tea exports to London auc- tions when the prescribed period is four months. Special arrangements apply to exports made under trade and payments agreements and to exports made to a member country of the Asian Clearing Union. Proceeds from Invisibles Unless otherwise specified, foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered. A traveler entering Sri Lanka must declare his holdings, including currency notes and coin. The amount of foreign funds that may be carried into Sri Lanka in the form of travel credit instruments is not restricted. The import of Ind ian and Pakistani currency is not permitted. A person entering Sri Lanka may bring in domestic currency notes not exceeding SL Rs 250. Other currency notes and coin may be brought in without restriction. Capital Investments of foreign capital are permitted in pro j- ects which are specifically approved by the Government, or, where the capital is drawn f rom a Blocked Account in Sri Lanka, in certain investments in Sri Lanka that have been approved by the Controller of Exchange, including shares of public companies incorporated in Sri Lanka. Proceeds f rom the sale or liquidation of investments in approved projects other than investments made from Blocked Accounts may be repatriated, along with capital appreciation. Proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments not approved by the Govern- ment may not be transferred abroad, but may be rein- vested with the approval of the Controller of Exchange; the current income thereon may be remitted abroad. New foreign investments in Sri Lanka that are approved by the Foreign Investment Advisory Commit- tee of the Ministry of Finance and Planning or the Greater Colombo Economic Commission are also granted special facilities in respect of remittances and taxation. Investments abroad by residents are not normally permitted. Resident-owned securities on which the principal, interest, or dividends are payable (either contractually or at the option of the holder) in any foreign currency must be declared to the Controller of Exchange, and the sale or transfer of such securities is allowed only with the permission of the Controller of Exchange. Authorized dealers may grant allocations to emigrants upon presentation of appropriate documentation. At the time of departure, emigrants can obtain passage to the country of migration by normal direct route and 20 per cent of passage fare to cover excess baggage. Exchange equivalent to <£ stg. 500 an adult and <£ stg. 250 a child under 12 years of age can also be purchased at the time of departure. Personal effects up to SL Rs 15,000 and jewelry up to SL Rs 30,000 for each female emigrant and SL Rs 10,000 for each male emigrant can be exported. The Department of Exchange Control can approve the transfer of pensions in full, or 384 up to <£ stg. 100 a month, including pension and other income, subject to production of an income-tax clear- ance certificate. Repatriates leaving Sri Lanka for residence in the country of their permanent domicile are permitted to transfer assets representing their retirement funds and a reasonable amount of savings as determined by the Government from time to time. Persons who have been in business in Sri Lanka are allowed to t rans fer the capital they or ig ina l ly brought into the country plus a reasonable amount of savings, subject to certain limits. Special provisions, governed by an agreement between Sri Lanka and India, apply to Indian fam i l ies re turn ing to India. Gold Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm require licenses issued by the Controller of Imports and Exports with the approval of the Central Bank. Dur ing 1980 the People's Bank imported nonmonetary gold for the use of the State Gem Corporation to be re-exported as gem-studded jewelry. In addition, the People's Bank sold gold in small quantities to licensed craf tsmen and jewelers, and also to hospitals. Commercial imports of jewelry and of other articles containing gold are severely restricted. Changes during 1980 February 21. The import duty on machinery was raised from 5 per cent to 12.5 per cent; duties on a number of other items ( inc lud ing tobacco, television sets, and certain transport vehicles) were also increased. February 22. Importation of flour, wheat flour, and rice was removed from public monopoly and made open to the private sector. April 18. Exchange and trade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe (former ly Rhodesia) were lifted. May 2. The limit on remittances abroad f rom non- resident blocked accounts which may be made without prior exchange control approval was raised f rom SL Rs 100,000 to SL Rs 200,000. May 14. Approval was granted for resident nonna- tionals to maintain foreign currency accounts with domestic commercial banks in any of ten designated currencies. May 23. The list of machinery imports requiring prior approval of the Investment Advisory Committees (under Schedule II) was reduced from 64 headings under the Brussels tariff nomenclature to only one complete head- ing and minor portions of three other headings. May 28. Changes were made in import duty rates on a number of products, including increases in rates on a range of chemical products, certain types of synthetic yarns, and iron and steel products. August 1. As a means of encouraging entrepot trade at the Port of Colombo, the Department of Exchange Control announced that eligible importers under Sched- ule III would be allowed to import goods for re-export, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution with the exception of textile fabrics, garments, cloves, narcotics, and arms and ammunitions; authorized for- eign exchange dealers were informed that for the pur- pose of the entrepot trade, an importer should maintain a separate current account in Sri Lanka rupees, and each consignment of imports or exports should be against back-to-back letters of credit. August 22. Import duties were raised from 5 per cent to (cid:2)l/2 per cent on a range of chemical and metal products; they were also raised on certain durable goods and spare parts. November 7. Tea chest panels were added to the list of items subject to import license. December 19. The annual protocol under the trade and payments agreement with the People's Republic of China was signed for 1981, specifying the quantity of rice and rubber to be traded during the year. SRI LANKA 385 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sudan is the Sudanese Pound, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at LSd 1 = US$2. On December 31, 1980 the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Bank of Sudan (the central bank) were LSd 0.49925 and LSd 0.50075, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are posted, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for these currencies against the U.S. dollar in New York. There are two exchange markets. About 36 per cent of exports, 44 per cent of imports, official transactions in invisibles, cash loans, and debt service payments are effected at the official market rate of LSd 1 = US$2, while all other transactions take place at the parallel market rate of LSd 1 = US$1.25. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Sudan, with the assistance of the authorized banks. The issuance of registration forms and the licensing of imports and exports (except those of gold) are the responsibility of the Ministry of Cooperation, Com- merce, and Supply, but all registration forms and licenses pertaining to transactions in the official market must be validated by the Bank of Sudan; registration forms per- ta in ing to transactions in the parallel market are vali- dated by commercial banks. Import payments and other fo re ign payments are approved within the f ramewo rk of an annual foreign exchange budget drawn up by the Ministry of Finance and National Economy, in coordi- nation with the Bank of Sudan and the Ministry of Cooperation, Supply, and Commerce. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries —except Egypt, with which Sudan ma in ta ins a bilateral payments agreement —and all monetary areas (the "convertible area") may be made in Sudanese pounds to the credit of any nonresi- dent account or in any foreign currency, while receipts from the "convertible area" may be accepted in Sudanese pounds from any nonresident account or in any con- vertible currency. Payments to Egypt for gasoline, Suez Canal dues, and 30 per cent of the savings of Egyptian teachers working in Sudan must be made in convertible currencies, while all other payments are settled through the bilateral account. Foreign Currency Accounts Residents are f ree to hold foreign currency in cash, or in fore ign exchange accounts with local banks, or in the fo rm of convertible accounts denominated in Suda- 1 Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, deutsche ma rk, French f rancs, Italian lire, Kuwa i ti dinars, Lebanese pounds, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.A.E. dirhams. 386 nese currency. However, no internal dealings in foreign currency, including the transfer of personal possession of fore ign currency between persons or its use in settle- ment of local transactions, is permitted except through authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Certain imports are prohibited for protective reasons and others are not being licensed. Permitted imports generally are licensed or accepted for registration in accordance with allocations under the foreign exchange budget. Certain imports are permitted only when accept- able fore ign financing is obtained. Sugar, wheat, and petroleum products are imported only by a state agency. For goods that require individual licensing, import licenses must be obtained from the Ministry of Coopera- tion, Commerce, and Supply, but for those goods that are imported through the official market the licenses must be validated by the General Administration for Foreign Exchange. For imports that are settled through the parallel market, the licenses must be validated by commercial banks. Import insurance normally must be taken out with local companies. Most private sector imports are subject to an advance deposit of 2 per cent of the c. & f. value, payable before validation, if the import is financed by commercial banks. Goods that otherwise would be subject to the advance deposit requirement are exempt when financed with suppliers' credit of at least two years' maturity, provided that the amount of the transaction is at least LSd 500,000. If a letter of credit is opened, the authorized bank usually requires a cash margin of between 10 per cent and 30 per cent. In practice, for many goods whose impor- tation the banks are not allowed to finance, a 100 per cent margin deposit must be made. A stamp duty of LSd 5 is levied on the application form for each trans- fer in respect of private sector imports. Most imports are subject to a defense tax of 5 per cent ad valorem. There has been an accumulation of arrears on payment for imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for most invisibles require approval from the General Administration for Foreign Exchange, but payments for interest, commissions, and travel allow- ances require only the approval of commercial banks. Remittances are permitted for family maintenance (up to LSd 360 a person a yea r ), educational expenses (up to LSd 1,680 a student a year for Western Europe, in addition to tuition fees; study in Australia, Canada, Japan, and the United States is exempt from this ce i l ing ), and for certain other purposes. Allowances for tourist travel to countries other than Egypt are authorized by the commercial banks up to a maximum ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of LSd300 a person a year (LSd 150 for a ch i ld ). Exchange for travel must be purchased at the parallel market exchange rate of LSd 1 = US$1.25. Salaried foreign nationals not permanently resident in Sudan are permitted to remit their bona fide current savings to any country other than Israel or South Africa. Egyptian teachers are allowed to remit in con- vertible currency 30 per cent of approved bona fide savings and the remainder in clearing dollars. Ship- ping charges, insurance premiums, profits, interest, and dividends earned by nonresidents may be remitted freely upon presentation of the required documents. The exportation of Sudanese currency over LSd 20 is pro- hibited. Stamp duties are payable for virtually all pay- ments for invisibles. The du ty is LSd 5 on applications for remittances of profits and dividends, for other transfers, and for foreign exchange for business travel; LSd 2 on applications for foreign exchange for tourism; and f rom LSd 0.25 to LSd 1 on applications for remit- tances for other purposes. Certain payments for invisi- bles are in arrears. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Afr ica are prohibited. With the exception of cotton, gum arabic, and livestock, all exports require a license. Exporters must submit an export form to and obtain approval from an authorized commercial bank. All commodities are subject to m in i- mum export prices. The proceeds of exports must be repatriated w i th in four months from the date of ship- men t; with the exception of proceeds f rom cotton exports, authorized dealers are allowed to retain 75 per cent of export proceeds for import financing ( for cotton exports, the retainable proportion of proceeds is 25 per c en t ). The balance must be surrendered to the Bank of Sudan. When the terms of payment are cash against documents or sight letter of credit, the proceeds must be surrendered on delivery of the shipping documents; in other cases a surrender date is usually specified. Some ma jor export commodities are exported solely by public sector entities. Exports of some commodities have been prohibited for supply reasons. Exporters and export-oriented industries are allowed to retain a portion of their para l lel market export pro- ceeds for purchases of goods and services abroad pro- vided that such purchases are for purposes directly related to the export business. Certain public corpora- tions engaged in providing services to nonresidents are also permitted to retain a portion of their foreign exchange receipts for their operations and on conditions determined by exchange control regulations. Retained foreign exchange must be kept with local banks, and is required to be sold to an authorized dealer if not utilized w i th in a specified period. Proceeds from Invisibles Sudanese nationals working abroad may open accounts denom ina ted in Sudanese pounds or foreign exchange SUDAN accounts by remittance of foreign exchange which is converted at a rate of LSd 1 = US$1.25. Retransfer abroad of such amounts is freely permitted. Moreover, the foreign exchange may be utilized for purchases in duty-free shops in Sudan. The same facilities are granted to certain groups in Sudan who earn foreign exchange abroad, including lawyers, engineers, owners of consulting houses, chartered accountants, pensioners receiving pensions in foreign currencies, employees of international and regional institutions in Sudan with earnings in foreign exchange, Sudanese diplomats and missions paid in foreign exchange, and Sudanese nationals who acquire properties abroad by inheritance or in other ways. Receipts f rom abroad in respect of tourism must be surrendered to authorized banks and are subject to the general prescription of currency requirements. All other receipts f rom invisibles may be retained in foreign exchange accounts. Travelers entering Sudan may bring in any amount in notes and coin of other countries but the importation of more than LSd 20 in Sudanese currency is forbidden. Capital Incoming fo re ign capital for specified investment may be registered and may receive, among other advantages, a guarantee for repatriation of the original capital and profits thereon. All new investment is converted at the parallel ma rket rate of LSd 1 = US$1.25. Emigrants of Sudanese na t iona l i ty may on departure transfer up to the equivalent of LSd 1,500 to their new country. Upon final departure f rom Sudan, resident foreigners may t rans fer up to the equivalent of LSd 2,500. Gold Res iden ts may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sudan for num isma t ic purposes. Subject to certain con- ditions, residents may also purchase, hold, and sell in Sudan domestically produced gold. With these excep- tions, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized indus tr ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Cooperation, Commerce, and Supply; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and indus- trial users. Some newly mined gold is exported for processing and then reimported. Changes during 1980 June 3. Exchange and trade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe ( f o rm e r ly Rhodes ia) were lifted. June 30. Authorization was granted for commercial banks to pay interest on current and time deposit accounts in U.S. dollars. Interest income on such accounts would be tax exempt, but such deposits may not be made by fore ign contractors, embassies, UN or regional organizations, or f rom retained funds. 387 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN August 28. It was decided to release all blocked accounts in local currency, without obligation for trans- fer of such amounts through the banking system. September 21. All exports except cotton, and all imports except petroleum, sugar, wheat and wheat flour, milk, medicines, and cotton-related imports were shifted from the official market (LSd 1 = US$2) to the parallel market (LSd 1 = US$1.25). The sh ift represented an increase in the proportion of exports channeled through the parallel market from about 6 per cent to about 64 per cent, while the proportion of imports rose f rom about 48 per cent to approximately 56 per cent. September 21. Export taxes were raised on gum arabic, sorghum, live animals, meat products, and all oilseeds, while those on hides and skins, which were previously levied at the uniform rate of 15 per cent, were lowered to a range of 5-14 per cent, 388 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Suriname is the Suriname Guilder, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at Sf 1.78876 = US$1. On December 31, 1980 the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Sf 1.77 and Sf 1.80, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are set daily by the Central Bank on the basis of the market quotations for the U.S. dollar and the curren- cies concerned in Amsterdam and the central rate for the U.S. dollar in Suriname, net of any commissions. There is no exchange market in Suriname. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Suriname formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from June 29, 1978. Administration of Control In principle, all foreign exchange transactions are subject to license, as are transactions between residents and nonresidents in domestic currency and other domes- tic assets. The authority to grant exchange licenses is vested in the Foreign Exchange Board, which has delegated much of this authority, and issues licenses mainly for capital transactions and certain invisibles. The Board has authorized the Director of Economic Affa irs to issue import and export licenses and has empowered the Central Bank to provide foreign exchange for import payments (subject to presentation of an import license); the latter authority is exercised through the commercial banks, which have all been appointed as authorized banks by the Foreign Exchange Board. The authorized banks are empowered to provide foreign exchange for specified current payments with- out requiring an exchange license. They may also accept free of license those inward transfers of foreign exchange that do not result from borrowing abroad; the taking up of foreign loans is subject to approval by the For- eign Exchange Board. Except in the circumstances specified above, the authorized banks are not permitted to sell foreign exchange without the submission of an exchange license by the remitter. Prescription of Currency Settlements in Suriname guilders between Suriname and foreign countries other than the Netherlands Antilles are not permitted; they must, in general, be made in convertible currencies,2 although payments to and f rom 1 Deutsche mark, French f rancs, Netherlands guilders, and pounds sterling. 2 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Barbados dollars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, East Carib- bean dollars, French francs, Guyana dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Po r tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss f rancs, Tr in idad and Tobago dollars, and U.S. dollars. the Netherlands Antilles may also be made in Nether- lands Antilles guilders or Suriname guilders. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks, may freely open accounts in U.S. dollars with domestic banks; no overdrafts are permitted. Nonresidents other than banks may freely open accounts in Suriname guilders with domestic banks; certain debits and credits are covered by a general license, while all others are subject to a specific license. These accounts must not be overdrawn and, for certain specified purposes, debits must not exceed a total of Sf 3,000 a month. Authorized banks may open nonresident accounts in Suriname guilders in the name of nonresident banks; these accounts also must not be overdrawn. Authorized banks may open nonresident accounts on behalf of nonresidents draw- ing pensions f rom the Government or under company plans. Transfers of up to Sf 1,500 a month may be effected under a general permit, and additional amounts may be transferred under a special permit. Nonresi- dent guilders or foreign currency accounts may not be credited with Suriname banknotes mailed from abroad or with the fore ign currency equivalent. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all imports.3 Some items, such as specified explosives and narcotics, are prohibited for reasons of public policy or health. Imports of a few other commodities are prohibited from non-EC sources for protective reasons and are subject to quota when originating in EC countries; these include coffee (roasted and un roas ted ), sugar, powdered m i lk, bu t ter (in packs of 500 grams or less), most worked and unworked wood, and certain metal fu rn i tu re. The import of prohibited goods may be allowed when supplies are not available in Suriname. Another group of commodities is subject to quota, irrespective of origin; these include matches, prefabri- cated wooden houses, certain types of women's wear, certain footwear, and certain wooden or cane fu rn i tu re. Special conditions are attached to the import of copra, rice, butter (in packs of over 500 g r am s ), wheat flour (in packs of over 1,000 g ram s ), veneer, and fu rn i tu re that is on neither the prohibited nor the restricted list; the import of these commodities also is restricted for protective reasons, but the issuance of licenses is sub- ject to administrative decision rather than to quota. A government agency, the Suriname Central Import Service, acts as the sole importer of certain staple food- 3 However, two specified m in ing companies do not need licenses for their own import requ i remen ts. Similar exemptions may be granted to fo re ign companies for their indus t r ial activities in Su r iname, provided that they pay for their imports f r om the ir own fore ign exchange holdings. 389 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME stuffs. All other imports are licensed freely f rom any source. The import license serves as an au thor iza t ion for pay- ment, exchange being made available upon presenta- tion of the license. Most licenses have a va l id i ty of six months, within which period the goods must be landed and paid for. A statistical fee of 1.5 per cent is levied on all imports, including imports of gold. Payments for Invisibles Payments for most invisibles requ i re ind iv idual licenses. The commercial banks and the General Post Office have au thor i ty to provide fore ign exchange up to Sf 150 an item a month on account of cer ta in services (bank charges, legal fees, membe rsh ip dues, copy and patent rights, and so f o r t h ); up to Sf 150 an item a month for advertising expenses and paymen ts for books; up to Sf 300 a year f rom each rem i t ter in respect of g if ts, subject to a limit of Sf 300 a year on any one beneficiary's receipt of gifts f rom Surinamese residents; and up to Sf 200-300 a mon th for the support of each member of the remitter's own fam i ly in the Netherlands Antilles or the Ne ther lands, subject to a l im it of Sf 600- 900 a month for a f am i ly un it ( f am i ly rem i t tances up to the same amoun ts to o ther countries requ i re a license, which is granted upon app l ica t ion). The basic exchange a l lowance to res iden ts for travel is Sf 750-2,500 a person for each t r ip (50 per cent of these amounts for children und er 14 ), depend ing on the des t ina t ion ;4 the au thor ized bank must enter on the travel ticket the amount of fore ign exchange sold and the date, the purchase of exchange for travel not being permitted un t il three days before depar ture. Bona fide applications for larger amoun ts of exchange for travel purposes are approved on a case-by-case basis. Travel- ers may take out Sf 100 in Su r iname currency. The export by resident travelers of fore ign bankno tes is limited to the amount of the ir travel a l lowance. Non- resident travelers may f ree ly purchase and take out foreign currency up to the equivalent of Sf 250. Non- resident travelers may also free ly take out any fore ign banknotes they brought in, provided that amoun ts in excess of Sf 5,000 were declared upon en try. Payments due as interest on loans and as net income f rom other investments, and paymen ts of moderate amounts for amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments, may be made if an application, sup- ported by an auditor's report, is duly presented to the Foreign Exchange Board for ver if ica t ion. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports require export licenses, which for most com- modities are issued freely, provided that the exporter under takes to surrender the fore ign currency proceeds 4 Sf 1,500 for the Caribbean area and Cen tral and South Ame r ica except Guyana, French Gu iana, and Venezue la; Sf 750 for G u y a na and French Gu iana; Sf 2,500 for the United States, Canada, and Venezue la; and Sf 2,000 for the rest of the world. 390 to an authorized bank w i th in six months of shipment. Export licenses for cattle, pigs, f resh beef and pork, and planting materials are g ran ted only with the advice of the Director of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, and Fisheries. The export of baboonwood is restricted, and that of rice is sub ject to special regu la t ions. Certain exporting companies have received special permission f rom the Foreign Exchange Board to ma in ta in current accounts in fore ign currency w i th the ir pa rent com- panies abroad and to use these for specified payments and receipts ( i n c l u d i ng export p roceeds ). All exports are subject to a statistical fee of 1.5 per cent of the f.o.b. value. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts f rom inv is ib les must be surrendered to an au thor ized bank. Travelers may b r ing in fo re ign cu r r en cy w i thout l im it and up to Sf 100 in domestic currency; resident trave lers must surrender on re tu rn to Su r iname any fo re ign currency in excess of the equ iva lent of Sf 500. Capital A decision of September 21, 1960 of the Foreign Exchange Board provides for the t r a n s f er abroad of capital proceeds f rom the sale to res iden ts or the l iqu ida- tion of fu l ly or pa r t ly foreign-owned companies or other fo rms of en terpr ise. The decision covers inves tmen ts made by non re s iden ts w i th fo re ign c a p i t al a f t er J u ly 31, 1953. It also provides for the a n n u al t r a n s f er of profits and for the t r a n s f er at any t ime of the fo re ign exchange ( in c lud ing l o a n s) impo r ted by the non r e s id ent entre- p reneur for the company's use. P ro f i ts must be trans- ferred w i th in th ree yea rs; o the rw ise, they are considered to have become pa rt of the firm's w o r k i ng capital and may only be t r an s f e r r ed in a n n u al in s t a l lm en ts of 20 per cent. An Inve s tment Law provides add i t ion al incentives for pr iva te inves tmen t. The Foreign Exchange Board g ran ts licenses on appli- cation for t r an s f e rs abroad f rom a deceased's estate, up to a max imum of Sf 25,000. For estates of more than Sf 25,000, f u r t h er a n n u al t r an s f e rs are pe rm i t ted so as to spread them over a period not exceed ing ten years. The Board allows em ig ran ts (heads of f am i l y) to trans- fer in fo re ign exchange the equ iv a l ent of Sf 5,000 in a lump sum, and subsequen t ly Sf 5,000 a year. The head of a r ep a t r i a t ing f am i ly is p e rm i t t ed to t r an s f er the equ iva lent of Sf 10,000 p lus 10 per cent of his to tal taxable earn ings in Su r iname accrued d u r i ng his period of residence; if his Su r inamese assets exceed the sum thus calculated, the excess may be t r a n s f e r r ed at a rate of Sf 10,000 a year, or at a h igh er ra te wh en this is necessary to en su re that the en t i re b a l an ce is released w i th in ten years. Subject to ce r ta in requ i remen t s, res iden ts may pu r- chase or sell in specified coun t r i es r> Su r in am e se cor- 5 Be lg ium, Canada, France, Federal Repub l ic of G e rm a n y, I ta ly, Luxembou rg, N e th e r l and s, Ne the r lands An t i l les, U n i t ed K ingdom, and United States. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution porate shares that have been designated as negotiable by the Foreign Exchange Board. T rans fe rs for invest- ment abroad or for the purchase of other fore ign secu- rities or real estate by residents are not permitted, although exceptions may be made for direct investments abroad when it is considered that Surinamese interests will benefit. All borrowing from nonresidents by non- bank residents requires prior approval by the Foreign Exchange Board. The foreign transac t ions of authorized banks are restricted, in principle, to those under taken for the account of their customers, and banks are required, in principle, to surrender to the Central Bank any excess of foreign currency purchased. The Central Bank, how- ever, permits them to place pa rt of their liquid f u n ds abroad; in addition, banks have received a general license to place abroad at short term U.S. do l lars cor- responding to balances in nonresident U.S. dollar accounts. Gold Producers of gold may sell on ly to au thor ized gold buyers. Locally produced gold must be surrendered to the Foreign Exchange Board by sale to the Central Bank at Sf 2,110 a k i log ram fine for bars of at least 10 kilograms, or at Sf 1.80 a gram for unwo rked gold with an average smelting loss of 6 per cent and an average gold content of 94%ooo.° Au thor ized gold buy- ers are pe rm i t ted, however, to sell nuggets at free ly agreed prices to the pub l ic for indu s t r ial and ar t is t ic purposes; dealings between residents in gold bars and other forms of unworked gold, w i th the exception of nuggets, are prohibited. As local production does not meet demand for indus tr ial purposes, the Central Bank 6 These amounts are to be ad jus ted in accordance with the revision of the official U.S. dollar price per troy ounce. By the end of 1980 this had not yet been done. SURINAME imports some gold, which it sells to au thor ized gold buyers. A gold coin w i th a face v a lue of Sf 100 is legal tender. Residents may hold and acqu i re gold coins in Suriname for num i sm a t ic and inve s tment purposes; authorized banks may f ree ly nego t ia te gold coin among themselves and w i th o ther res iden ts. Res iden ts other than the mone ta ry au tho r i t ie s, p roduce rs of gold, and authorized i n d u s t r i al and d e n t al users a re not allowed w i thout special perm iss ion to ho ld or acqu i re gold in any form o ther t h an nugge ts, jewe l ry, or co in, at home or abroad. Impor ts and exports of gold in any fo rm other t h an jewe l ry requ i re exchange licenses issued by the Foreign Exchange Boa rd; such l icenses are not no rma l ly gran ted except for impo r ts and exports of coin by au thor ized banks, and for impo r ts and exports by or on beha lf of the mone ta ry au tho r i t ie s, producers of gold, and i n d u s t r i al users. Residents a r r iv ing f rom abroad, however, may f ree ly b r ing in go ld, sub ject to dec lara t ion, and provided that they su r render it to the Central B ank w i t h in 20 days. Non re s ident travelers also may f r e e ly br ing in gold, sub ject to dec la ra t ion; they may re-export the dec lared am o u nt f r e e ly. Impo r ts of gold coin are d u ty f ree and those of unwo rked gold are sub ject to a d u ty of Sf 0.0375 a gram, irrespec t ive of origin. The gene ral t a r i ff for gold o rnamen ts is 60 per cent ad va lo rem, but those of EC origin are sub ject to du ty at 50 per cent ad va lorem. Impor ts and exports of all fo rms of gold are subject to the s ta t is t ical fee of 1.5 per cen t; in a d d i t i o n, imports are subject to a licensing fee of 0.5 per cent. Changes during 1980 No s ign i f icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 391 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Swaziland is the Lilangeni (p lural emalangeni), which is pegged to the South Afr ican rand at E 1 = R 1. U.S. dollar rates quoted by the Central Bank of Swaziland are based on the floating middle rate of the South African rand against the U.S. dollar. Buy- ing and selling margins, as in South A f r ica, are held within 0.25 per cent (US$0.0029) of the middle rate. On December 31, 1980 the official buying and selling rates were US$1.3426 and US$1.3406, respectively, per E 1. Rates are also quoted for the deutsche mark, the French franc, the pound sterling, and the Swiss f ranc based on the London and New York market quotations for these currencies against the U.S. dollar, and for the Kenya shilling and the Zambian kwacha based on their fixed peg to the SDR. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. There is also a freely floating "financial" rand, which is the local sale and redemption proceeds of South A f r i- can securities and other investments in Swaziland owned by nonresidents, capital remittances by emigrants and immigrants, and approved outward capital transfers by residents. The rate is usually at a discount from the commercial rand rate. Exchange Control Territory Swaziland forms part of the Rand Monetary Area, which is a single exchange control territory comprising Lesotho, South Afr ica, and Swaziland. No restrictions are applied to payments within the Rand Mone tary Area, and in principle, these are not controlled. In rela- tion to countries outside the Rand Monetary Area, Swaziland applies exchange controls that are generally similar to those of South Africa. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Swaziland, on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, controls all external currency transactions. Imports and Import Payments Swaziland is a member of a customs union with Botswana, Lesotho, and South Africa, and there are no import restrictions on goods originating in any country of the customs union. Imports from South Afr ica do not require licenses and include an unknown quan t i ty of goods originating outside the customs union. Insofar as Swaziland imports goods directly from countries out- side the customs union, such imports are usua l ly licensed in conformity with South Africa's import regulations. Import licenses are valid for all countries and entitle the holder to buy the foreign exchange required to make the import payment. There are no bilateral payments arrangements. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licensing, ma in ly for revenue and similar reasons, but most exports are shipped w i thout license to or through South Africa. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transactions, while subject to control, are not normally restricted. Au thor i ty to approve some types of current payments is delegated to authorized dealers up to established limits; the basic exchange allowance for tourist travel is the equivalent of E 3,000 in a calendar year for an adult and E 1,200 for a child; there is a smaller annual allocation for travel to neighboring countries. Capital Inward capital transfers should be properly docu- mented in order to facilitate the subsequent repatriation of interest, dividends, profits, and other income. No person may borrow foreign currency or register shares in the name of a nonresident, or act as a nominee for a nonresident, without prior approval. Applications for most ou tward t rans fe rs of capital are considered on their merits. Blocked emalangeni, apart f rom being released to emigrants through the financial rand in specified instances, may be invested in quoted securities and other such investments as may be approved by the Central Bank. Changes during 1980 March 1. An import surcharge of 7.5 per cent levied on imports into the customs un ion was abolished. April 1. Exchange and trade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe (former ly Rhodesia) were lifted. 392 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sweden is the Swedish Krona. In managing the exchange rate of the krona, the Sveriges Riksbank (the central bank) is guided by a trade- weighted index based on a basket of 15 currencies of Sweden's most important trading partners. In construct- ing the index the Swedish authorities established two criteria to be met by each country and currency included in the basket: (1) the country had to account for at least 1 per cent of Sweden's total foreign trade (exports plus imports) during 1972-76 and (2) each currency had to be quoted daily on the foreign exchange market in Stockholm. The weights are proportional to Sweden's foreign trade with each of the countries whose cur- rencies are included in the index, with the exception that the weight of the U.S. dollar has been doubled and that of the other currencies adjusted accordingly. To take account of changes in average trade shares the weights are adjusted each year (on April 1) on the basis of trade statistics for the last five calendar years. At present, the weights are as follows (base period 1975-79): Deutsche mark U.S. dollar Pound sterling Norwegian krone Danish krone Finnish markka French franc Netherlands guilder Belgian franc Italian lira Japanese yen Swiss franc Austrian schilling Spanish peseta Canadian dollar Total 17.1 16.3 13.1 9.8 9.5 7.2 5.5 5.2 3.7 3.4 2.6 2.4 1.8 1.2 1.2 100.0 The index value of 100 represents the benchmark for the effective value following the devaluation on August 29, 1977. The exchange rate is managed so as to allow only limited fluctuations around this bench- mark. An average of the daily index values is published weekly by the Riksbank. The market buying and selling rates for spot transactions in U.S. dollars, the interven- tion currency, on December 30, 1980 were SKr 4.3720 and SKr 4.3735, respectively, per US$1. Spot rates for other currencies are established on the basis of the cross rates in international markets. Forward market rates are left to the interplay of market forces. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized banks may buy from and sell to other authorized banks any foreign currency on a spot basis against another foreign currency or Swedish kroner. They may also purchase fore ign currencies, spot, from foreign banks and other nonresidents against any foreign currency or Swedish kronor credited to an External Kronor Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). They may sell foreign currencies, spot, to for- eign banks and other nonresidents against any other foreign currency or Swedish kronor debited to an External Kronor Account. Authorized banks may conclude with residents other than banks forward exchange transac t ions in foreign currencies against Swedish kronor covering current and authorized payments for ( 1) un l im i ted periods in respect of receipts on the one hand, and payments for imports, f re igh t, and charter services on the other; (2) periods not exceeding 12 months in respect of repayment of loans abroad for refinancing of credits granted in Swedish kronor in connection with Swedish exports; and (3) 6 months in respect of other pay- ments. Forward transactions may be concluded only to cover paymen ts for which an agreement exists. How- ever, export firms, when tendering, may make forward sales of settlement on the envisaged date of payment or on the expiry date for tendering. A bank may not credit a customer w i th any profit on canceled forward trans- actions. Under specified conditions, Swedish residents who have raised loans in foreign currency may buy forward the currency of the loan against another foreign currency. Authorized banks may buy from and sell to other authorized banks, forward, any foreign currency against another foreign currency or Swedish kronor. Authorized banks may under certain conditions conclude forward transactions for a period not exceeding 12 months with foreign banks. Such transactions between banks may, however, be for periods exceeding 12 months if made in cover of forward transactions with residents. Sweden formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Exchange controls are adm in is tered by the Riksbank through its Exchange Control Board. The Board's deci- sions may be appealed to the Govern ing Board of the Riksbank. Authorized banks and some other authorized agencies implement the exchange control regulations. All current payments (as defined in Sweden's exchange control legislation) are exempt from exchange control provided that they are made through an authorized bank in accordance with the currency prescriptions issued by the R iksbank. The authorized banks have been granted general licenses giving them power to approve various payments that are subject to exchange control. Import 393 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Board of Commerce, except those for foods tuffs, which are issued by the National Agricultural Marketing Board, and those for gold and gold alloys, which are issued by the Riksbank. Prescription of Currency Payments to and f rom foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Swedish kronor through any External Kronor Account (see section on Nonresi- dent Accounts, be low). Nonresident Accounts There are two main types of nonresident accounts held in Swedish kronor with authorized banks in Sweden: External Kronor Accounts and Restricted Accounts. Other nonresident accounts are Foreign Exchange Accounts, Kronor Accounts for Nonresidents Domiciled in Sweden, and Foreign Wages Accounts. External Kronor Accounts may be held by non- residents domiciled abroad. These accounts may be credited with transfers from other External Kronor Accounts, with authorized payments to foreign coun- tries by residents of Sweden, and with sales of any foreign currency. They may be debited for transfers to any other External Kronor Account and for author- ized payments to residents of Sweden, and they may be exchanged into any foreign currency. External Kronor Accounts do not normally bear interest. Restricted Accounts are held by persons who have been residents of Sweden but became nonresidents af ter emigrating. The accounts may be credited with amorti- zation payments on loans granted before emigration and interest accrued to, and earnings from, assets in Sweden and proceeds from sales of assets in Sweden owned by the account holders. The sale of unlisted Swedish securities, however, requires authorization. Balances in Restricted Accounts may be used for payments in Sweden for expenses related to the adm in is tra t ion and maintenance of the account holder's assets in Sweden; maintenance expenses of the account holder and his fam i ly; minor merchandise purchases; taxes and other official charges; gifts to, and for the support of, persons domiciled in Sweden; amortization and interest pay- ments on loans raised by an emigrant before emigrating; and purchases of Swedish bonds denominated solely in Swedish kronor, and of real estate. Foreign Exchange Accounts1 are held in foreign cur- rencies. Such accounts may be credited with authorized payments in foreign currencies due to the account holder and with accrued interest. Balances on such accounts may be used for making authorized payments in fore ign currencies to a resident. A Foreign Exchange Account may also be credited with transfers f rom 1 Residents may also maintain Foreign Exchange Accounts in foreign currencies. Such accounts may be credited with authorized receipts in fore ign currencies and debited for authorized paymen ts in fore ign cur- rencies. They may not bear interest, unless the Riksbank gives special permission. 394 abroad of foreign currencies, or transfers from External Kronor Accounts or from other Foreign Exchange Accounts. A Foreign Exchange Account may be debited for transfers to any other Foreign Exchange Account or to External Kronor Accounts. Balances on Foreign Exchange Accounts may be sold to an authorized bank against any other foreign currency or Swedish kronor. Kronor Accounts for Nonresidents Domiciled in Sweden may be maintained by banks and may be cred- ited with payments in Sweden in favor of an account holder and with accrued interest; they may be used for withdrawals in kronor in Sweden. Foreign Wages Accounts are intended to facilitate payment of salaries, wages, and other remunerations of persons sent abroad from Sweden and employed by Swedish employers. The accounts may be opened with authorized banks without prior de term ina t ion of resi- dential s ta tus. However, residents may use the funds on these accounts when abroad only for maintenance expenses and purchases for personal use, while a non- resident may use such funds for current payments in Sweden. Imports and Import Payments With the exception of some agricultural and fishery products, practically all goods are free f rom quantitative restriction and import licensing when imported from countries other than Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Demo- cratic Republic, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. However, most imports f rom these countries are liberalized. Some imports from Japan require licenses. Imports of certain textile products f rom some countries and territories (Brazil, Hong Kong, India, the Republic of Korea, Macao, Malaysia, Malta, Mauritius, Pakistan, the Philippines, Portugal, Singa- pore, Sri Lanka, Thailand, and Yugoslavia) are limited through special arrangements. In addition, imports of rubber boots f rom any coun try other than member countries of the EC or the EFTA are subject to global quota restrictions, and imports of specified textiles and garments f rom any source other than EC or EFTA countries, as well as imports of most iron and steel products from all countries, are subject to import licens- ing for surveillance purposes. Payments for imports, including normal advance pay- ments, may, as current payments, be made without permission through authorized banks and without the formality of presenting an import license. If the con- ditions specified for current payments (see section on Payments for Invisibles, below) are not met, an exchange control permit is required. Importers are permitted to utilize foreign commercial credits, provided that these do not exceed what is regarded as customary. Payments for Invisibles The exchange control regulations define and list those ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution categories of payments abroad that are considered as current payments. Persons domiciled in Sweden may make such payments without restriction in favor of persons domiciled abroad. The payments must be made through authorized banks in order to ensure that capital payments are not made in the guise of current payments. Payments not exceeding the equivalent of SKr 1,000 that are made abroad for any purpose do not have to be verified by authorized banks; however, if they constitute partial payments of a capital nature, the approval of the R iksbank is required. Life insurance prem iums in excess of SKr 1,000 a person a calendar year require the approval of the R iksbank; such approval is normally given freely for both existing and new policies. For tourism, recreational travel, or study abroad, residents may acquire and take out freely up to SKr 6,000 a tr ip in Swedish and foreign banknotes and coin and other means of payment; if they wish to stay abroad for at least four weeks they may acquire and take out foreign exchange up to SKr 12,000 a person. Applications to the R iksbank for additional amoun ts are treated liberally. Authorized banks and other authorized agencies may allocate to residents, without restriction, exchange for business travel abroad. The export of Swedish banknotes in denominations larger than SKr 100 is prohibited. With this exception, nonresidents leaving Sweden may export free ly Swedish and foreign banknotes and other means of payment which have been acquired abroad or from an authorized bank or other authorized agency in Sweden. However, w i thout specific permission, not more than SKr 6,000 in Swedish banknotes and coin may be taken out of Sweden. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports, with some exceptions such as ships, scrap metal, mineral oils and certain mineral oil products, and pig iron to the EC are exempt from license if payment is to be received in conform i ty w i th the general regula- tions (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Proceeds f rom exports of goods do not have to be surrendered; they may be kept in a foreign currency account with a Swedish authorized bank and used by the holder to make authorized payments abroad, or they may be sold to an authorized bank for Swedish kroner. Proceeds front Invisibles Receipts from invisibles are subject to the same treatment as those from exports (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Each person entering Sweden may for traveling purposes br ing in unlimited amounts of banknotes, coin, and other means of payment. Swedish banknotes, however, may be only in denominations of SKr 100 or less. Capital Direct investment abroad by Swedish residents requires individual authorization, which normally is granted only if the investment is considered likely to promote exports SWEDEN or otherwise to benefit the balance on current account, irrespective of the return on the investment. Authoriza- tion may be conditional on financing abroad by a loan in foreign currency or from an authorized bank. The loans must have an average ma tu r i ty of at least five years. Such financing is not required for investments in sales companies and other companies which to a signifi- cant extent give rise to exports f rom Sweden, for invest- ments involving relatively small amounts, or for invest- ments in countries that are the main recipients of Swedish development assistance. Residents may, on application, t rans fer capital abroad to purchase, for recreational purposes, real estate valued at up to but not more than SKr 175,000 for each fam i ly. New investment in South Afr ica and Nam ib ia has been banned since July 1, 1979. A Swedish resident when emigrating is permitted to transfer up to SKr 100,000, subject to verification by the Riksbank. Before obtaining permission from the Riksbank to t ran s fer the remainder of his funds, the emigrant is requ ired to demonstrate his intention of maintaining that status by living abroad du r ing a so- called qualification period. Determination of this qualification period is tied to the assessment of residen- tial status in terms of taxation law. When Swedish residents emigrate for a limited period, applications for transfers in excess of the in i t ial SKr 100,000 are con- sidered in a restrictive manner. Transfers on account of inheritances that are due to nonresidents are permitted. Authorized banks may freely approve payments abroad in respect of various categories of remittances, including those in respect of g i f ts and support payments up to SKr 5,000 a calendar year. Residents are permitted to accept capital receipts from abroad on account of life, pension, and annu i ty contracts; contractual amortization of their investments; the sale of fore ign securities, real estate abroad, and personal property held by them abroad; and g if ts and inheritances. Residents may accept other kinds of capital receipts f rom abroad only upon approval from the Riksbank. Residents who wish to receive loans or credits other than no rmal suppliers' credits f rom nonresidents must receive au thor iza t ion to do so; enterprises are normally permitted to borrow foreign currency abroad or from an authorized bank for periods of at least five years on an average and for amounts of at least SKr 10 m i l l ion, with the exception of borrowings by enterprises owned by local governmen ts ( f or which special arrangements apply) and borrowings for a few other specified purposes. The R ik sbank perm i ts exporters to cover their normal suppliers' credits through borrowing in foreign currency abroad or f rom an authorized bank. A Swedish exporter may, w i thout permission f rom the R iksbank, raise such a loan for up to six mon ths from an authorized bank in order to finance such a credit which he, as a supplier, 395 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN normally provides for not more than six months. The Riksbank normally permits a Swedish exporter to raise a loan in foreign currency abroad or f rom an authorized bank in order to finance production costs of major export orders. Suppliers' credits gran ted by Swedish sh ipyards may be refinanced in foreign currency abroad or in an authorized bank even if the credit serves to finance sales of ships to Swedish shipowners. Swedish importers can also be granted permission to take up credit in foreign currency abroad or in an authorized bank to finance imports. A Swedish importer may, without permission from the Riksbank, raise such a loan for up to six months from an authorized bank in order to finance his own imports, if suppliers' credits are normally available to him for not more than six months. Borrowing by way of suppliers' credit is not controlled, and other borrowing to finance imports is approved where the borrowing itself and the repayment terms are in conformity with commercial practice. In this context, authorized banks are, upon application, permitted to extend to the foreign coun terpart of a Swedish exporter or importer credit intended to finance certain specified import and export transactions, and to refinance such credit through a corresponding fore ign borrowing. Permission for the financing of the export and import transactions mentioned above requires that the credits conform to normal commercial practice. AB Svensk Exportkredit is allowed to provide credit in accordance with the ordinance (1978 :404) on financ- ing export credits with state support. Subject to these regulations AB Svensk Exportkredit may, w i thout a permit f rom the Riksbank ( 1) supply credit to a Swedish exporter or an authorized bank or to a foreign buyer or his bank and (2) t rans fer credit from an exporter or an authorized bank to a foreign buyer or his bank. Residents are not normally perm i t ted to extend financial loans to nonresidents. Under certain conditions, authorized banks may be granted permission to borrow abroad for purposes of on-lending to residents. Thus, authorized banks may, under a R iksbank permit, raise loans abroad in foreign currency for on-lending to resident enterprises for not more than six months for financing imports of merchan- dise and providing credits for exports of merchandise. Authorized banks may also raise loans abroad in foreign currency for long-term on-lending to companies (with the exception of those owned by local governments), primarily those of small or medium size. Such loans must have an average life of at least five years and the amount in each case may not exceed SKr 10 million. The borrowing company is not required to obtain a permit, except in the case of borrowing for a few specified purposes. Foreign-owned companies in Sweden usually are permitted to borrow at long term from the parent companies. Generally, the repayment of foreign credits at any date other than that specified in the contract 396 requires a new authorization from the Riksbank; such authorizations are granted restrictively. However, the Riksbank normally permits companies, local authorities, and authorized banks to (1) redeem the loan in advance by raising a new loan abroad with at least the same average life as the rema in ing average l i fe of the redeemed loan and (2) redeem bond loans by pur- chases in the market not more than nine months in advance of the final redemption date. Permission is needed for the issuance of bonds and shares in Sweden by nonresidents; bond issues in favor of other Scandi- navian countries and the International Bank for Recon- struction and Development have been admitted. Foreign direct investments in Sweden require authorization, which normally is given, provided that not more than 50 per cent of each individual invest- ment (investments below SKr 5 million excepted) is financed w i th domestic credit. The transfer of the l iqu ida t ion proceeds of such investments, including appreciation, requires authorization, which is always given. In connection with nonresidents' purchases of real estate in Sweden for recreational purposes, resi- dents may, w i thout authorization, both receive payment f rom, and grant credit to, nonresidents. This also applies to nonresidents' purchases of real estate for other purposes if they come to live in Sweden. Existing loans connected with the estate may, when older than one year, be transferred to the nonresident. Furthermore, banks are permitted to assist in the financing of the purchase with a new loan of up to SKr 50,000. Invest- ment by nonresidents in Swedish real estate always requires approval according to regulations other than exchange control regulations. Residents do not need authorization to sell portfolio holdings of foreign securities to nonresidents. The pur- chase of both listed and unlisted foreign securities by residents f rom nonresidents requires authorization. As a rule, such authorization is not granted. However, authorized banks and stockbrokers are authorized to purchase from nonresidents, on behalf of residents, listed foreign securities and listed Swedish securities denominated in fore ign currencies using the proceeds f rom sales to nonresidents of Swedish held securities denominated in foreign currencies, provided that the purchase is made within six months of the correspond- ing sale. Residents may w i thout authorization buy from other residents foreign securities and Swedish securities denominated in foreign currencies. A general license permits the repurchase from abroad of listed Swedish securities denominated in kronor, provided that an affidavit can be produced showing either ( 1) that at no time during the last five calendar years have the securities been owned by a person domiciled in Sweden or (2) that the securities have been acquired with the permission of the Swedish exchange authorities f rom a person domiciled in Sweden. The affidavit is not required when the securities are registered with the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Securities Register Center. The authorized banks and stockbrokers may handle purchases by nonresidents of listed Swedish securities expressed in Swedish kroner when payment is to be made in the form of other similar securities, provided that ( 1) the foreign seller and buyer is the same person in each case; (2) the aforementioned affidavit requirements are met or the securities are registered with the Securities Register Center; (3) foreign holdings of bonds are not exchanged for shares; and (4) not more than three months pass between the date of the purchase from and the date of the sale to the foreign party. The export of securities owned by nonresidents other than Swedish emigrants is not restricted. Ceilings are placed on the net foreign exchange hold- ings of each authorized bank. Banks may grant only normal overdrafts to nonresidents. They may incur foreign exchange liabilities, but may not maintain a net liability in any one currency. This, together with the permission to pay interest on foreign exchange deposits held by nonresidents, enables the banks to borrow foreign currency from nonresidents for on-lending (but not in the form of k rone r) to foreign banks. Swedish banks may not borrow abroad freely in order to sell the proceeds against Swedish kroner in the marke t, but under certain conditions they may be granted permis- sion to borrow abroad to relend in Sweden (see above). Nonresidents' holdings of kronor in External Kronor Accounts must not be "abnormal," and, with minor exceptions, they cannot earn interest. Gold Gold in any form may be held, purchased, and sold within Sweden. Imports and exports of gold and gold alloys require licenses issued by the Riksbank; the types of gold affected are unmanu fac tu red gold and most types of semimanufactured gold. Import licenses are normally granted to jewelers, dental laboratories, and users of gold for industrial and scientific purposes, as well as to persons and firms importing for resale to SWEDEN these categories of users. As a general rule, no licenses are issued for the import of gold to be held on private account. Commercial imports and exports of articles containing gold, such as jewelry, may be made freely without a license. Changes during 1980 March 18. The Exchange Control Board amended the exchange control ordinance in the following areas for the purpose of removing controls on capital inflows that were no longer deemed necessary: (1) the criteria for borrowing abroad; (2) permits to obtain foreign finance for production costs to do w i th ma jor export orders; and ( 3) advance redemption of loans. June 17. The Exchange Control Board decided to terminate the permits previously granted to certain banks to hold bonds in foreign currency; new permits would be issued upon application, w i th a stipulated maximum amount for each bank for the purchase of bonds and similar claims in foreign currency. June 17. The Exchange Control Board announced that persons traveling abroad and intending to stay abroad for at least four weeks were allowed to buy foreign exchange for up to SKr 12,000 a person, twice the previous maximum. June 17. The Exchange Control Board amended regulations on fo rwa rd dealings. The time limit on forward sales of "currency was abolished. Authorization was granted for .export enterprises, when tendering, to make fo rwa rd sales for settlement on the envisaged date of payment or on the final date for tendering. Swedish residents who have raised loans in foreign currency were permitted to deal forward in two foreign cur- rencies. It was also decided to c la r i fy the existing regu- lations that forward dealing is restricted to covering payments for which an agreement exists and that a bank may not credit a customer with any profit on a canceled forward dealing. In addition, certain changes were made in the system for reporting to the Riksbank. 397 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND1 (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Switzerland is the Swiss Franc. The Swiss National Bank does not ma in ta in margins in respect of exchange transactions; exchange rates are determined, in principle, on the basis of underlying demand and supply conditions in the exchange markets. However, the Swiss National Bank intervenes when necessary in order to counter disorderly conditions in the market. The pr inc ipal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar; the market rate for the Swiss f ranc in terms of the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1980 was SwF 1.7610 per US$1. All settlements may be made at free market rates. Foreign banknotes are negotiated freely in Switzerland at rates determined by the interplay of supply and demand. Exchange Control Territory For all purposes of import and export the Principality of Liechtenstein is included in the Swiss customs terri- tory. For purposes of capital control, natural or ju r id- ical persons (including banks) domiciled in Liechten- stein are generally considered by Switzerland as residents, except in respect of the acquisition of Swiss real estate. For purposes of the Federal Law on Banks and Savings Institutions, however, Liechtenstein is con- sidered a foreign country. Administration of Control Authority to impose measures for the control of imports, exports, and payments is vested in the Swiss Federal Council acting on the advice of the Federal Department of Public Economy or the Federal Depart- ment of Foreign A f fa i rs. The Swiss Na t ional Bank is the executive au thor i ty in matters of currency. Prescription of Currency Settlements may be made or received in any cu r rency. Imports and Import Payments With minor exceptions, imports into Switzerland may be made freely. The only commodities subject to license irrespective of their origin are certain agricultural products and certain fue ls. Import permits for goods under license are generally granted freely, but global quotas are established for certain agr icu l tural products. Imports of textiles f rom specified countries are subject to price surveillance or price certification. Payments for imports f rom all countries may be made f ree ly. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made free ly. The export of Swiss and foreign bankno tes is free. 1 Switzerland is not a member of the International Mone tary Fund. 398 Exports and Export Proceeds The export ( inc lud ing re-expor t) of some goods is subject to export control through ind iv idual licenses. This export licensing system is operated in part with the assistance of appropriate t rade organizations. Export proceeds are freely disposable. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles are f ree ly disposable. The import of Swiss and fo re ign bankno tes is free. Capital Transfers of cap i tal may be made w i t h o ut fo rma l i ty except that bank credits and o ther bank lend ing to non- residents, when exceeding Sw F 10 m i l l i on each and w i th a m a tu r i ty of 12 mon ths or more, require permission. Permission is also required for fo re ign bond issues in Switzerland and for direct p a r t i c ip a t ions by Swiss banks in Eurobond issues. Fu r the rmo re, all proposed first placements of med ium - te rm nego t iab le paper (no te s) in amoun ts of Sw F 3 m i l l ion or more a year must be sub- m i t ted to the Na t ional Bank for au tho r iza t ion. The Na t ional B ank w i ll not approve fo re ign bond issues w i th an original m a t u r i ty of less th an n i ne years, wh i le the acceptable range of m a t u r i ty for notes is f rom three to eight years w i th m i n im um subpa r t ic ipa t ions of Sw F 50,000. There is a l im i ted secondary ma rket in notes. Foreign banks, gove rnmen ts, and mone ta ry au tho r i t ies may acquire pa r t ic ipa t ions in notes denom i- nated in Swiss f r an cs prov ided that they agree to hold such p a r t i c ip a t ions to m a t u r i t y. Such notes must rema in deposited w i th a b a nk wh ich has pa r t ic ipa ted in the issuing synd ica te, for account of the inves tor. The phys- ical impo r ta t ion and expo r ta t ion of Swiss and fo re ign securities are un res t r ic ted. In 1980 the b a n ks were not subject to reserve requ iremen ts; they are pe rm i t ted to pay interest on Swiss f r anc deposits ( inc lud ing "fidu- ciary" or "trustee" f u n d s) received f rom non res iden ts. Banks are required to report mon th ly the ir fo rwa rd positions. Banks and finance compan ies must report mon th ly (a select number of them on a week ly basis) their "dealer positions" in fo re ign currencies ( the ir own assets and l iab i l i t ies in fore ign currencies, spot and f o rw a r d ). Swiss banks may pa r t ic ipa te in loans with multiple cu r rency clauses. Purchases of real es ta te in Sw i tze r land by or on behalf of persons or firms of fo re ign n a t ion a l i ty who are domiciled or resident abroad requ i re approval by the canton where the proper ty is^ s i tua ted. The approvals of the can tons are subject to supe rv is ion and appeal by the Con fede ra t ion. Gold Swiss gold coins are not legal tender. Residents may free ly purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm, at home ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution or abroad. There is a free gold market in Zurich. Imports and exports of gold in any form by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license. No customs duties or other charges are levied on exports of gold. Imports of gold in certain forms are subject to customs du ty (bars and certain coin are exempt) or sales tax. Sales of gold and gold coins are subject to the retail sales tax. Import and export licenses, which are issued freely, are required for com- mercial imports and exports of certain articles con- ta in ing gold. Changes during 1980 January 1. The list of products eligible for import into Switzerland at preferen t ial rates under Switzer- land's Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) was extended. The extension of the GSP scheme concerned mainly honey, beans and peas, pawpaws, dried apricots, processed rice, preserved asparagus, pineapple ju ice and vegetable oils for mechanical uses. January 1. The retail sales tax of 5.6 per cent on gold and gold coin, which had been suspended in 1954, was reintroduced. Under the regulations, bank pur- chasers were considered wholesalers. January 1. Exchange and trade res tr ic t ions app ly ing to Zimbabwe ( fo rme r ly Rhodesia) were l i f ted. February 21. The ban on the payment of interest on nonresident-held savings accoun ts denom ina ted in Swiss francs was lifted. In addition, the payment of interest on time deposits of fore ign cen tral banks with a ma tu r i ty of at least six months was authorized. Finally, the restrictions on the fo rwa rd sale of Swiss francs to nonresidents were eased by raising the ceiling for sales up to ten days from 20 per cent to 40 per cent of the October 31, 1974 level and by raising the ceiling for maturities over ten days f rom 50 per cent to 80 per cent of that base date. (See also entries for March 11 and August 27, below.) February 28. The Na t ional Bank issued for the first time its interest-bearing bonds. At the same time, the National Bank offered banks three-mon th and six- month U.S. dollar swaps in an attempt to avoid the tightening of liquidity. March 6. Major Swiss banks, in cooperation w i th the National Bank, decided to slow down the pace of foreign bond placements in the Swiss marke t. March 11. Interest payments were resumed on non- resident time deposits in Swiss f rancs w i th ma tur i t ies of at least three months. Thus, only nonresident sight deposits and time deposits with maturities below three months remained subject to the interest rate ban. The National Bank also l if ted the limits on fo rwa rd sales of Swiss francs to nonresidents. April 3. The Na t ional Bank and the Bank of Japan concluded a renewable one-year swap agreement which provided for the equivalent of ¥ 200,000 million of each country's currency to be deposited in the country's central bank. SWITZERLAND April 17. Foreign central banks and monetary au thor i t ies were perm i t ted to subscribe to short-term money ma rket certificates issued by the Swiss Con- f ed e r a t ion. The general rule p r o h i b i t i ng subscriptions by nonres iden ts rema ined in e f fec t. May 4. It was announced th at Sw i tzer land would not par t ic ipa te in the economic and t rade boycott against Iran. However, it was decided that Sw i tzer land should not prof it f rom the boycott by an expans ion of its com- mercial relations w i th I ran; if necessary, export licens- ing would be in troduced if commerc ial transac t ions exceeded the ir cu r r ent level a f t er May 17, 1980. June 15. The Na t ional Bank decided to ex tend for one year its 1976 gentlemen's ag reement w i th the Swiss Banke r s' Assoc ia t ion whereby Swiss b anks unde r took to r e f r a in f rom m a k i ng deposits in Euro-Swiss f rancs or d irect placements in Swiss f r an cs in Sw i tzer land for the account of and in the name of the ir b ranches or subs id ia r ies abroad. June 25. A cu r rency trea ty was conc luded between Sw i tze r land and L iech tens te in. If approved by the pa r l iamen ts of both countries, the treaty would permit the N a t i o n al Bank to extend the v a l i d i ty of its measures to L iech tens te in w i thout separate spec if ic app roval by the L iech tens te in Gove rnment and to check comp l iance w i th i ts measu res in L i e ch t en s t e in. (By December 31 th is ag reement had not been r a t i f i ed by the au tho r i t ie s .) July 9. The Federal Counc il decided to inc lude, w i th e f fect f rom Augu st 1, Z imbabwe in the list of develop- ing coun t r ies that are bene f ic ia r ies u n d er the Swiss scheme of t a r i ff preferences. August 27. With effect f r om Augu st 31 the Swiss Federal Counc il altered the decree on fo re ign f u n ds so as to pe rm it the payment of in terest on depos i ts denom i- na ted in Swiss f r an cs by non res iden ts w i thout restric- t ions, and the Na t ional Bank repealed the implement- ing decree on nonres ident b ank deposits and fo rw a rd exchange transac t ions with nonresidents. These meas- ures l i f ted the ban on interest payments on nonresident- held sight and time deposits w i th a m a tu r i ty of less than three months. September 1. The Na t ional Bank issued a c i rcu lar to banks l ibera l iz ing cap i tal export rules w i th effect f rom th is date. Domestic b anks were allowed to take part free ly in the g ran t ing of loans denom ina ted in foreign cu r rency and in the p lacement of notes in Swiss f rancs and other currencies for amoun ts not exceeding Sw F 10 million (or its coun terpart in fore ign currency). T rad ing of notes in Swiss f rancs was perm i t ted subject to cer ta in l im i ta t ion s. The p lacement of notes with fo re ign b anks and foreign monetary authorities was pe rm i t ted prov ided that the holders of such ins t rumen ts unde r took to keep them for the ir own account un t il ma tu r i ty. The Na t ional Bank could require that the placement of notes w i th foreign mone ta ry authorities be subject to agreement with the authorities concerned. 399 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND The original ma tur i ty of loans should not be less than nine years and that of notes, between three and eight years. Advance repayment would be subject to limita- tions. With regard to operations in foreign currencies, the National Bank reserved the right to introduce spe- cific requirements, the general rule being that the banks could participate in foreign syndicates. Credits to non- residents with multicurrency clauses would be allowed. September 24. The National Bank announced its decision to extend until November 30, 1981 the system (Devisenbezugsrechte), introduced on December 1, 1978 for a period of two years, under which exporters of goods and services could purchase currency options from the Na t ional Bank to cover their foreign exchange risks for up to two years forward. October 8. The National Bank and the commercial banks, by mu tual consent, decided not to renew their 1975 agreement which had most recently been extended un t il the end of October 1980 and under which the banks were prepared to discount at preferen t ial rates export bills of exchange with maturities of up to six months. The National Bank had guaranteed unlimited preferential rediscounting of such export bills, usually at 1 percentage point below the official discount rate. 400 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Syrian Arab Republic is the Syrian Pound, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at LS 3.925 = US$1. There are two exchange rates, the official rate and the free market rate. The Syrian Arab Republic confines its buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar within LS 3.90 and LS 3.95, respectively, per US$1; on December 31, 1980 the official buying and selling rates were LS 3.90 and LS 3.95, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for all major currencies are quoted on the basis of the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar and the market rates for the currencies concerned in markets abroad.1 Administration of Control Policy with regard to imports and exports is deter- mined by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade. Under an agreement between the Central Bank of Syria and the Administrative Committee of the Exchange Office, all transactions of the Exchange Office are car- ried out through the Central Bank. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade, and exchange licenses for invisibles and capital transac- tions by the Exchange Office. Authorized commercial banks, travel agencies, hotels, and airline companies may deal in foreign exchange. The commercial banks may open letters of credit or accept bills for collection only with the prior approval of the Exchange Office. At present there is one authorized bank, the Commercial Bank of Syria, which has been authorized by the Exchange Office to open letters of credit and accept bills for collection without prior approval, provided that cer- tain conditions are fulfilled. Prescription of Currency The Exchange Office is empowered to prescribe the currencies to be obtained for exports. Proceeds of exports to all countries may be obtained in any converti- ble currency and such proceeds may also be received in banknotes denominated in convertible currencies and declared at the border posts of entry. Prescription of currency requirements are not applied to outgoing pay- ments. All payments to and receipts f rom Egypt, Israel, and South Africa are prohibited. The Syrian Arab Republic maintains bilateral payments agreements with the People's Republic of China, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Sri Lanka, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in Syrian pounds may be cred- ited with the proceeds of foreign currencies sold to the 1 Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Iraqi dinars, Italian lire, Jordan dinars, Lebanese pounds, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. authorized bank and with paymen ts for goods. They may be debited without prior approval to pay for Syrian exports to the country of the account holder and for expenses in the Syrian Arab Republic. Nonresidents may open foreign currency accounts in the Syrian Arab Republic; they are not required to present evidence that they have sources of income abroad. Resident nationals wishing to open such foreign accounts are required to present written evidence as to the origin of the f u n ds to be transferred. Transfers abroad f rom these accounts may be made freely. Temporary nonresident accounts may be opened in the name of nonresidents temporarily resident in the Syrian Arab Republic. These accounts may not be used, however, for funds received in settle- ment currencies, through payments conventions, or by diplomatic and UN missions and their s taffs. Permitted credits include the local currency proceeds of foreign currency brought in at the free market rate and amounts corresponding to import payments that are not trans- ferred. Debits for local expenditures are completely free, and debits for expenditures abroad also are per- mitted. Imports and Import Payments Imports of commodities originating in Egypt, Israel, or South A f r ica are prohibited. Many basic commodi- ties ( inc lud ing green coffee, tea, rice, tobacco, salt, paper, iron and steel, and certain agr icu l tural mach in- ery) are imported only by state trad ing agencies or, for their own account, by certain other official agencies. Agencies exclusively qualified to import may import certain commodities to meet the raw ma ter ial needs of the private sector. Imports are divided into two categories: (1) imports prohibited by decree and specified in a Prohibited List, which comprises mostly goods that are produced domestically, including some textile products (however, waivers may be granted in order to meet the needs of industry or to obtain supplies of f o o d s t u f f s ); and (2) all other goods. In principle, imports must come direct from the coun try of origin, without the intervention of any foreign firm; the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade has the authority, however, to permit certain goods to be imported f rom countries other than the country of origin. All permitted imports, except those made by state trading agencies, require individual import licenses before the placing of orders when valued at over LS 500. The state trading agencies' operations are governed by the annual foreign exchange budget. Under the budget, they prepare documentation relating to import transactions which they submit to the banks and the customs authorities. Certain imports (not appearing in the list of prohibited impor ts) from Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, and Saudi Arabia are exempt f rom 401 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC license, in accordance with the A rab Common Market Agreement. In such cases an authorization to import is granted in response to a written request. Syrian citizens, whether resident in the Syrian Arab Republic or abroad, are entitled to import specified raw materials, capital goods, consumer goods, and spare parts. The value of the import licenses may not exceed LS 100,000 (except for capital goods). Import licenses are granted freely to importers who have obtained foreign suppliers' credit of at least 365 days; settlement for goods licensed under such credit facilities may be made immediately if a documentary letter of credit is opened at an authorized bank in the Syrian Arab Republic and the importer covers the full amount with his foreign exchange. Licenses to import specified items that normally are prohibited (certain luxury consumer goods), up to a value of LS 24,000 in a 12-month period, are granted on request to merchants certified by the Chamber of Commerce and the M in is t ry of Supply and Internal Trade and whose names appear on the list of payers of income tax published by the Ministry of Finance. No licenses are required for imports in this category where the value does not exceed LS 500 an item a month. Foreign currency accounts may be debited f ree ly for import payments, provided that a license is obtained, when necessary. There are limited import facilities for travelers arriving f rom abroad. There is a tax of 2 per cent on the issue of import licenses, except for government imports and imports of certain essential items, including raw materials, petroleum, and petroleum products. In addition, there is a unified import surcharge, which has replaced all the previous special levies on imports (a statistical tax, a consumption tax, a defense tax, a school tax, a maritime transport tax, and a harbor t ax ). Payments for imports may be made at the free market rate by letters of credit, time d ra f ts, or on a collection basis, or by crediting a nonresident account or a tem- porary resident account. Importers may transfer the foreign exchange at any time. The importer submits the import license and the pro forma invoice to the Commercial Bank of Syria, which then opens the letters of credit or accepts the bills for collection. Approval by the Exchange Office is not required. Insurance for imports under documentary credit and most private sector imports must be effected locally. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles, except expenditures of Syrian officials abroad, must be made at the free market rate. Both residents and nonresidents may freely take out foreign banknotes. Residents traveling abroad may also take with them other foreign exchange purchased at the free market rate as follows: for travel to Lebanon, the equivalent of LS 100 a trip; for travel to Jordan, LS 250 a trip; for travel to other Arab countries (except Algeria, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Morocco, Sudan, 402 and Tun is ia) and to Cyprus and Turkey, LS 500 a trip; and for travel to other countries (including Algeria, the Libyan Arab Jamah ir iya, Morocco, Sudan, and Tun i s ia ), the equivalent of LS 1,250 a trip. For children between the ages of two and ten, the allowances are 50 per cent of these amounts. Workers on secondment to a foreign country may take with them foreign exchange up to the equivalent of LS 500. For travel to payments agreement countries, 50 per cent of the travel allocation must be taken up through the clearing account concerned (30 per cent for travel on official bus iness). On departure, residents of Syrian nationality must pay an exit tax of LS 11.50 a person. Fixed allocations at the free market rate are main- tained for other transactions in invisibles, as follows: 60 per cent of the salaries received by foreign technicians and experts employed in the Syrian A rab Republic; 50 per cent of the salaries of personnel of foreign diplomatic and international missions in the Syrian Arab Republic; up to LS 3,000 a stockholder a year for dividends accru- ing to nonresidents f rom Syrian securities; and LS 250 a person a month for private donations and charities. In all cases, applications for additional amounts must be submitted to the Exchange Office. Nonresidents leaving the coun try are permitted to take out LS 100 in Syrian currency, and residents LS 25. No approvals are granted for additional amounts. Nonresidents leaving the country are allowed to reconvert Syrian currency into foreign exchange up to the equivalent of LS 500 upon showing evidence of having purchased the cur- rency from an official dealer. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of wheat, barley, cotton, cottonseed, and their derivatives are nationalized and are made by the Cereals Office or the Cotton Authority. Exports of petroleum are handled by the Petroleum Marketing Office. Exports of certain other commodities also are reserved for government agencies, state trading agencies, or specified companies. Exports of a few goods to all countries and all exports to Egypt, Israel, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Exports of the main products and of all goods of foreign origin require licenses. For all other exports, licenses are not required. For most exports, however, a repatriation commitment is required by which the exporter undertakes to bring the proceeds to the Syrian Arab Republic and surrender them to the Commercial Bank of Syria within six months after the date of export. The proceeds of exports must be sur- rendered at the free market rate (except that the pro- ceeds of cotton and petroleum exports must be sur- rendered to the Exchange Office at the official ra te ). The Commercial Bank of Syria may accept prepayments for exports of Syrian products by residents and non- residents w i thout referring to the Central Bank of Syria. Certain manu fac tu red exports receive subsidies from the Fund for the Development of Exports of Industrial Products. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports of fruits, vegetables, and olives, and crude 011 and its derivatives are subject to an export tax of 12 per cent ad valorem. Exports of other agricultural products are subject to an ad valorem agricultural tax of 9 per cent plus 3 per mill in case of export by sea. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from pipeline royalties must be sold at the official rate and those from other invisibles at the free market rate. Nonresidents entering the Syrian Arab Republic are permitted to br ing in unlimited foreign exchange in any fo rm. Foreign banknotes may be brought in freely by residents and nonresidents. Non- residents are permitted to bring in not more than LS 100 in Syrian currency. Capital All inward and outward capital t rans fe rs take place at the free market rate. Imports of private funds in the fo rm of foreign exchange are free for private individuals, whether residents or nonresidents. The export of capital requires the approval of the Exchange Office, as does most borrowing abroad. Order No. 265 of June 10, 1970 provides special facilities for the investment of funds of immigrants and of nationals of A rab states in the economic development of the Syrian A rab Republic. Investment guarantee agreements have been signed with France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Switzerland, and the United States. Immovable property in the Syrian Arab Republic may not (without prior approval) be SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC acquired by nonresidents or foreign nationals other than resident Arab nationals. Gold Residents may hold, acquire, and sell gold in the Syrian Arab Republic without restriction. Domestic transactions in gold take place at free market prices that are in line with free market prices abroad. Imports of gold are exempt f rom import licensing, while exports of gold are subject to a repatriation comm i tment cover- ing the cost of manu fac tu r ing and the profit earned. Changes during 1980 January 20. It was announced that with effect f rom March 1, the various surcharges on imports (na t ional defense surcharge, port taxes, school taxes, municipal taxes, mar i t ime transport taxes, import license taxes, and statistical taxes) would be unified into a single schedule. April 18. Exchange and trade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe ( fo rme r ly Rhodesia) were lifted. April 27. It was announced that import licenses for private sector imports f rom countries that do not have a payments agreement with the Syrian A rab Republic would be granted without the need to remit abroad the value of imports in foreign currency and would be exempt from the stipulation of fu rn i sh ing the bills of lading and the original invoices authenticated by Syrian local banks. 403 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Tanzania is the Tanzania Shilling. On January 20, 1979, the fixed relationship of the Tanzania shilling to the SDR was discontinued and the Tanzania shilling was pegged to a basket of currencies of Tanzania's main trading partners. The Bank of Tanzania quotes daily buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar; on December 31, 1980 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were T Sh 8.18158 and TSh8 .18205, respectively, per US$1. The buying and selling rates for other currencies l are determined on the basis of appropriate cross rates in international markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance has delegated the adminis- tration of exchange control to the Bank of Tanzania. Authority for approving normal import payments, some payments in respect of current invisibles, and some capital payments is delegated by the Bank of Tanzania to the two authorized banks, the Na t ional Bank of Com- merce and the People's Bank of Zanzibar. On the ma in land, import control is administered by the Imports Controller in the Bank of Tanzania and export control by the Exports Controller in the Ministry of Trade. The Bank of Tanzania acts as the registrar of exporters. The responsibility for issuing specific import and export licenses rests with the Controllers to whom applications must be submitted by the importer or exporter in Tanzania before orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. Zanzibar administers an inde- pendent system of foreign trade controls through a Board of Trade; all imports and the principal exports are effected by the state t rad ing agencies (B izan je and the Zanzibar State Trading Corporation). Prescription of Currency Settlements between residents of Tanzania and non- residents normally must be made either in convertible currencies or by debit or credit to External Accounts in Tanzania shillings. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Tanzania shillings held by residents of foreign countries with authorized banks in Tanzania are, with exchange control approval, designated non- resident accounts and may be either External Accounts or unspecified nonresident accounts. They may be credited with authorized payments to residents of for- eign countries by residents of Tanzania, with transfers f rom other External Accounts, and with the proceeds 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Pakistan rupees, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 404 from sales of any foreign currency (other than South African currency) to authorized dealers. They may be debited for paymen ts to residents, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for permitted purchases of foreign currencies f rom authorized dealers. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. Some imports to the ma in land f rom all sources are prohibited for reasons of health or security. Certain other imports are not being licensed. Certain goods listed in the Imports Control Notice of 1977 may be imported freely, irrespective of country of origin, while other goods listed require specific licenses. A semiannual foreign exchange plan provides for indicative foreign exchange allocations for goods subject to specific licenses. Although manu fac tu re rs are permitted to import many goods directly, the importation of most consumer goods is restricted to centralized import agencies. Unless specifically exempted by the Bank of Tanzania, individ- ual consignments of imports amoun t ing to T Sh 20,000 or above are subject to quan t i ta t ive and qualitative inspection and price comparison by the General Superin- tendence Company of Geneva, acting as agent for the Government of Tanzania. All merchandise imports by the mainland must be insured with the National Insur- ance Corporation of Tanzania, unless exempted by the Bank of Tanzan ia, and premiums must be paid in Tan- zania shillings. All imports into Zanzibar are made by Bizanje. Most imports, irrespective of their origin, are subject to sales tax at rates rang ing up to 50 per cent of the c.i.f. value plus import duty. (This tax is also pay- able on sales of domestic products.) Advance payments for imports are allowed in excep- tional circumstances only, exchange for import payments normally not being granted un t il a f ter customs clear- ance. Suppliers' credits require the prior approval of the Bank of Tanzania. There has been an accumulation of arrears on payments for imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries are controlled and require the approval of the Bank of Tanzania. Non- citizens working in Tanzania under contract in salaried employment and with a firm commitment to leave Tan- zania eventually may remit abroad, throughout their period of employment, up to one third of their monthly salary to cover fam i ly maintenance, savings, etc. Appli- cations to remit in excess of one third of salary, or in excess of T Sh 3,000 a month, are considered on their merits by the Bank of Tanzania. Persons making uncom- mitted remittances under these arrangements are not entitled to emigration facilities (see section on Capital, below). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution The basic exchange allocations for tourist travel are suspended, but exceptions may be granted by the Bank of Tanzania on a case-by-case basis. Family remittances to relatives abroad also are suspended. Resident travel- ers are allowed to take out T Sh 100 in domestic cur- rency. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency notes, travelers checks, and letters of credit up to the amount they brought in. Certain payments for invisibles are in arrears. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Afr ica are prohibited. On the main- land, exports of products dealt with by state trading organizations and exports of certain other products are subject to controls and, if there is a local shortage, may be restricted. Exports may not be effected without an export license. All principal exports of Zanzibar are sold abroad by the Zanzibar State Trading Corporation. Exporters are required to be registered with the Bank of Tanzania and must maintain an account w i th a local commercial bank. Export proceeds must be collected in convertible currencies within one to two months from the date of exportation. However, on application to the Bank of Tanzania this period may be extended. Export proceeds must be surrendered upon their collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold to an authorized bank upon collection. Travelers may freely bring in convertible foreign currency notes; a returning traveler may bring in up to T Sh 100 in Tanzania shilling notes he had exported on departure. Capital Capital transfers to all countries are subject to control by the Bank of Tanzania and are restricted; all capital transfers require individual exchange control approval. Persons leaving Tanzania permanently, who have been resident in Tanzania for four years immediately prior to the date of application and who have not been availing themselves of the facility for making uncommitted remittances of savings, may transfer their assets up to the equivalent of T Sh 20,000 for each household. Any assets in excess of the initial emigration allowance of TANZANIA T Sh 20,000 are remittable in five yearly installments of T Sh 20,000 each, a f ter which any remaining amount will be considered for repatriation. Gifts to nonresidents require the prior approval of the Bank of Tanzania. There is no restriction on the investment of foreign funds in Tanzania, but to ensure eventual repatriation the investment should be recognized by the Bank of Tanzania and a certificate of its status as an approved enterprise in terms of the Foreign Inves tment (Protec- t ion) Act, 1963 should be obtained from the Ministry of Finance. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production requires approval. All imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase of Tanzanian securities by nonresidents from residents, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remittable, as are the proceeds f rom resale. Purchases of securities outside Tanzania by residents are not permitted. All loans or overdraf ts from residents to nonresidents or to foreign-controlled resident bodies require approval by the Bank of Tanzan ia. Gold A commemorative gold coin is legal tender but does not circulate within Tanzania. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Tanzania for num isma t ic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form, other than -jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form, other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler, are subject to individual licensing by the Bank of Tanzania. Import licenses for gold jewelry are issued by the Bank of Tan- zania and are available to goldsmiths only. Licenses are not granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, industrial users, and producers of newly mined gold; imports are limited to an overall import quota. Changes during 1980 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 405 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Thailand is the Thai Baht. The external value of the baht is determined on the basis of the relationship of the baht to a weighted basket of currencies of Thailand's ma jor trad ing partners; the weighting reflects the shares of trade as well as the currencies used in payments. The exchange rate of the baht in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, is determined pa r t ly on the basis of demand and supply in the fo re ign exchange ma rket at daily fixings managed by the Exchange Equa l iza t ion Fund. The Exchange Equalization Fund intervenes to keep the relationship of the baht to the basket of currenc ies w i th in a ma rg in and to ma in ta in orderly conditions in the exchange market. The authorities deal w i th commercial banks only in U.S. dollars at the fixing rate, which is also used as the m idd le rate for transac t ions between commercial banks and customers. Buy ing and selling rates applicable to commercial banks' transactions with their customers in respect of telegraphic t ran s fe rs for six other currencies1 are determined daily on the basis of the daily fixing rate for the U.S. dollar and the cross rates in international markets. On December 31, 1980 the middle official rate was B 20.63 = US$1, and the commercial banks' buy ing and selling rates for telegraphic t ran s fe rs for their customers were B 20.53 and B 20.68, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Thailand on behalf of the Ministry of Finance; the Bank delegates responsibility for most transac t ions to authorized agents (i.e., authorized banks and authorized compan ies2) and to authorized persons. All incoming exchange must be sold to an authorized agent. All out- going payments are subject to approval (given auto- matically for bona fide commercial transactions and other current paymen ts ); certain inward capital transfers may also be subject to approval, upon prescription by Ministerial Notification.3 Imports of gold require a license issued by the M in is try of Finance. Certain other imports and a few exports are subject to licensing by the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency There are no special requirements concerning the currency to be used for settlements with foreign coun- tries; most payments are made in U.S. dollars. 1 Deutsche mark, Honk Kong dollars, Japanese yen, Malaysian ringgit, pounds sterling, and Singapore dollars. 2 No authorized company has yet been so des igna ted. 3 No such notification has yet been issued. 406 Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonres ident baht accounts: Transferable Accounts and Blocked Accounts. In principle, t rans fe rs of baht to and f rom nonresident accounts requ i re approval; there are exemptions, how- ever, for nonresident accounts of fo re ign d ip loma t ic entities, in t e rn a t ion al o rgan iza t ions based in Tha i land, and Thai na t iona ls tempo ra r i ly abroad. T r an s f e r ab le Accounts may be credited f ree ly w i th the proceeds f rom sales to au tho r ized banks of fo re ign cu r rency t rans- ferred f rom abroad, w i th amoun ts t r an s f e r r ed f r om other T rans fe rab le Accounts, and w i th f u n ds eligible for rem i t tance abroad in fore ign cu r rency. Balances on T rans fe rab le Accounts are convertible in to fo re ign currency at any t ime and may be debited f ree ly for the purchase of fo re ign currenc ies for t r a n s f er abroad, for t r an s f e rs to o ther T ran s fe rab le Accoun ts, for paymen ts in respect of exports, and for any other payments to residents. Funds that must be credited to Blocked Accoun ts inc lude proceeds of i n s t a l lm e nt sales of books, ren ta ls a c c ru ing in T h a i l a n d, f r e ight in t r a n s it trade, proceeds f rom sales of assets of em ig ra t ing resi- dents of Thai n a t i o n a l i t y, and f u n ds that a re not e l ig ib le for credit to a T ran s fe rab le Accoun t. T ran s fe rs of baht f rom Blocked Accoun ts for the purchase of fo re ign currency, except for ce r ta in cu r rent payments, are sub- ject to approval by the Bank of Th a i l and; app roval is granted when no cap i tal t r a n s f er on beha lf of a Thai na t ional is involved. In add i t ion to the above, the Bank of Thailand encourages nonres iden ts to place fo re ign cu r rency deposits w i th commercial b a n ks in T h a i l a n d. No restric- tions are placed on the open ing of a fo r e ign cu r rency account as long as the f u n ds o r ig ina te abroad. Balances on such accounts may be t ran s fe r red w i thout fo rma l i ty or restrictions. A commercial b ank may pay in terest on such deposits at competitive rates. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities may be impor ted f ree ly, but import licenses are requ ired for some commodities, and the import of certain o ther i tems is proh ib i ted for protective and other reasons. All impor ts of goods originating in or shipped f rom South A f r i ca are pro- hibited. Imports of tea leaf and tea dust are subject to a requ irement that the impor ter purchase a propor- tionate quan t i ty of the same type of goods produced in Thailand. Import licenses are va l id for all countries except South A f r ica. Paymen ts for impor ts may be approved by authorized banks upon submission of documents; the specific approval of the Bank of Tha i land, which is given for all bona fide transac t ions, is required for advance pay- ments in excess of US$1,400 and for opening revo lv ing ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution letters of credit or letters of credit with an expiry date exceeding nine months. Importers must obtain, in addition to the usual documents, a "certificate of pay- ment" from an authorized agent before imported goods exceeding B 20,000 in value can be cleared through customs; military equipment imported by the M in i s t ry of Defense and certain m inor categories of imports are exempt f rom this requirement. Certain goods are sub- ject to temporary import surcharges. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments and t rans fe rs for current in terna t ional transactions. Payments for invisibles require au thor iza t ion, which is usua l ly given by an authorized bank or otherwise by the Bank of Thailand. Cargo insurance p rem iums due to fore ign insurers may be remitted in fo re ign exchange; if they are paid in baht to an agent or a branch office of an insurance company registered abroad, they may be remitted as earned income a f ter taxes. The t ran s fer of profits and dividends is perm i t ted freely by the Bank of Thailand. Apart f rom fo re ign travel, fam i ly ma in tenance abroad, and educational expenses abroad, authorized agents are permitted to approve applications for exchange without supporting documents, provided that each payment does not exceed the equivalent of US$140. Authorized persons are allowed to sell fo re ign currency notes to other persons in an amount not exceeding US$250 a person a month. In the case of a foreign tourist wishing to convert baht in to fore ign currency notes, the au thor ized person may exceed the above limits. For persons traveling abroad for pleasure or personal business trips, authorized agents may approve exchange allowances not exceeding the equivalent of US$800, for trips of less than 10 days, or US$80 a day for trips of more than 10 days but not exceeding 30 days for trips with visas, or not exceeding 15 days for tr ips without visas; for business or official travel, US$100 a day is allowed, and add i t ional fo re ign exchange not exceeding US$70 a day may be obtained in cer ta in cases for en ter ta inment expenses. For fam i ly remittances, authorized banks may sell US$200 a mon th to each transferor for Europe and the United States and US$150 a month for other countries. Amoun ts above these limits are approved by the Bank of Thailand upon verification. No person may take out local currency exceeding B 500 (or B 1,000 for a fam i ly traveling on one passpo r t) or foreign currency exceeding US$250 (US$500 for a family traveling on a single passpor t) without the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Transit passengers and tourists may take out without prior authorization their own fore ign means of payment or foreign securities or fore ign banknotes and coin of a value not exceeding US$2,000 or such higher amount as they may have declared in w r i t ing upon entry. THAILAND Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South A f r i ca are prohibited. Cer ta in categories of exports are subject to licensing, irrespec- tive of destination.4 All other commodities may be exported f ree ly, except to South A f r ica. Settlement for exports of silver exceeding US$5,000 in va lue must be made th rough irrevocable letters of credit. The expor ter is required to ob ta in a "certificate of expor ta t ion" f rom an authorized agent in order to clear the sh ipment through customs, where sh ipmen ts of tin or rubber exceed B 2,000 in value and, w i th m inor excep t ions, where exports of other goods exceed B 20,000 in va lue. Export proceeds must be collected and must be sold to an au tho r ized agent w i th in 7 days of receipt; they must be su r rende red w i th in 15 days f r om the date of export if p aym ent is made by letter of cred i t, 21 days if a sight b i ll is d rawn for collection, 15 days a f t er the due date of a usance bill, or 15 days for other methods of paymen ts, but in any case not later than 180 days a f t er the date of export. Foreign tour is ts may freely take out precious stones and gold or p la t inum ornamen ts or other articles up to any va lue. The export of most types of rice and rice p roduc ts and of sugar is subject to export taxes referred to as export p r em ium s. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts f rom inv is ib les must be sold to an au tho r- ized agent. Au tho r ized persons are allowed to purchase fo re ign cu r r en cy notes and coin or travelers checks pay- able in fo re ign currenc ies, but the latter must be resold to au thor ized banks. No person may b r i ng in to Th a i l and local currency exceeding B 2,000 w i thout a pe rm it (B 4,000 for a fam i ly trave l ing on the same passpo r t ). Travelers may b r ing in any amount in fore ign notes and coin. Capital All ou tward t ran s fe rs of capital, in c lud ing prem iums on life insurance policies, by residents or nonresidents are subject to approval. Personal capital exports by residents are restricted. The Bank of Thailand approves the rem i t tance of dona t ions and g i f ts of a reasonable amount. Foreign exchange f rom inwa rd capital move- men ts mu st be sold to an authorized agent and the purpose of the t rans fer must be declared. Foreign investments in Thailand may be accorded preferen t ial trea tment under the Investment Promotion Act B.E. 2520 (issued on April 29, 1977); this treat- ment includes a guaran tee of the t ran s fer abroad of current net earn ings and of capital repa tr ia t ion. The repatriation of other capital is considered on the merits of each case; approval is norma l ly granted if it can be shown that the funds originated abroad. Certain economic activities are reserved for Thai na t iona ls. 4 These inc lude gold, p la t inum, precious stones, live ca t t le and other specified an ima ls, sorghum, corn, rice and rice produc ts, all types of suga r, brass and copper in cer ta in forms, i ron scrap and most fo rms of iron o ther th an pig iron and iron ore, and Deva and Buddha images. 407 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND The contracting of suppliers' credits abroad requires Bank of Thailand approval. All other private loans taken up abroad may be registered with the Bank to facilitate approval of outward remittances. The Foreign Debt Committee must approve external borrowing by the public sector. Gold Residents may hold and negotiate domestically gold jewelry, gold coin, and unworked gold. Purchases or sales of gold on commodity fu tures exchanges are pro- hibited. Imports and exports of gold other than jewelry are subject to the following arrangements, unless they are effected by or on behalf of the monetary authorities: commercial imports of gold in any fo rm are restricted and require a license issued by the Ministry of Finance; for gold bullion, the Ministry periodically fixes an authorized quantity of imports. A bidding system oper- ates under which the importer offer ing the highest premium by tender is awarded a license as sole importer of the authorized quantity for a certain period. In addition to this prem ium, which accrues to the Govern- ment, the importer is required to pay to the Ministry of Finance a fee at the rate of 2 per cent of the c.i.f. value of the gold. Foreign tourists may take out gold ornaments up to any value. Exports of gold bullion are prohibited, while traders' exports of gold ornaments exceeding B 5,000 in value require a certificate of exportation for presentation to the customs, but they are free of export duty or taxes. Changes during 1980 January 14. The export premium on sugar was increased. January 25. Import surcharges of 30 per cent (of c.i.f. value) were introduced for one year for certain types of gauze and absorbent cotton and of 20 per cent for certain types of steel blades and liquid or gas filters and accessories. January 30. Prior approval requirement for exports of rice, which had been suspended in October 1979, was reintroduced. February 6. The purchase, sale, or lending of gold on commodity fu tu res exchanges was prohibited. February 13. The following import surcharges were introduced for a period of one year: 30 per cent (of c.i.f. value) for pencils and discontinuous polyester fiber; 20 per cent for citric acid, polyester stretched yarn, and nylon stretched yarn; 15 per cent for piston rings with diameters of 30-160 millimeters; and 10 per cent for continuous polyester filament yarn and con- tinuous nylon filament yarn. February 22. Exchange and trade restrictions apply- ing to Zimbabwe (formerly Rhodesia) were lifted. 408 April 2. An import surcharge of 50 per cent was introduced for menthol flakes and powder for the period April 2, 1980-April 1, 1981. April 3. Licensing requirements were introduced for exports of rice in quantities exceeding 500 tons. April 7. Licensing requirements were imposed on exports of frozen shrimp and frozen cuttlefish to the United States and the EC. April 16. Licensing requirement was imposed on exports of raw sugar, to prevent domestic shortages. May 22. Impor ta t ion of high-quality ju te to be used in the production of ju te products for export was per- mitted up to September in order to alleviate domestic shortages. May 28. For a period of one year beginning May 28, a 30 per cent surcharge was introduced on imports of certain types of fishing nets and a 20 per cent surcharge for complete sets of taps or parts for san i tary appliances for domestic use and certain types of diesel piston engines. June 11. Licensing requirement was imposed on exports of sugar. July 3. Surcharges were introduced for one year for imports of certain kinds of adhesive plasters (20 per cen t) and certain types of netting (15 per cen t ). July 3. Regulations were introduced for exports of fresh longan, to prevent pr ice-cu t t ing among exporters. July 21. Licensing requirements were introduced for exports of ju te and kenaf products, to prevent domestic shortages of gunny-bags. July 23. A surcharge of 10 per cent was introduced for one year on impor ts of materials made f rom gauze of a lum inum wire. August 11. Exports of petroleum products were pro- hibited, to prevent domestic shortages. August 13. Exports of raw sugar were prohibited. September 30. The tax holiday on foreign loans entering into the country, which was due to end on September 30, was extended for another year for loans with original ma tu r i ty of more than 12 months. October 16. The import ban on fresh apple, pear, quince, and dried fru i ts was l if ted. October 31. A new regulation was introduced requir- ing that settlement for exports of silver valued in excess of US$5,000 be made by means of irrevocable letters of credit; the regulation was intended to prevent under- declaration of export proceeds and illegal outflow of capital. November 6. An import permission system was introduced for garlic, in order to help domestic growers of garlic. November 8. An agreement was concluded to limit exports of tapioca products to the EC. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Togo is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buying and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per mill on transfers from countries outside the West African Monetary Union and one of 2.50 per mill on transfers to such countries.2 Banks levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the West Afr ican Monetary Union, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to gold, Togo's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and Economy, which also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Togo, inward direct investment and all outward investment, and the soliciting of funds in Togo for placement in foreign countries. Some of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to authorized intermediaries and the BCEAO. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the banks, financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public, any information necessary to complete balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal Administration, or the BCEAO. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Division in the Ministry of Commerce and Transport, except those for gold, which are granted by the Ministry of Finance and Economy. Prescription of Currency Since Togo is an Operations Account country, settle- ments with France (as defined above), Monaco, and i rThe CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 Transfers between member countries of the Union are subject to the flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current transactions with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally settled through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account is not permitted, except for credits to Foreign Accounts held by foreign correspondents of authorized banks, which may be credited with BCEAO banknotes mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Lome by those correspondents. Foreign Accounts in Francs may also be debited with- out authorization, with BCEAO banknotes mailed by authorized intermediaries to their foreign correspondents through the BCEAO agency in Lome. Imports and Import Payments All imports of South African origin are prohibited. Imports f rom countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely, but require the prior authorization of the Foreign Trade Division in the Ministry of Commerce and Transport, when valued at CFAF 10,000 or more, and when they are destined for commercial purposes. Imports from all other countries require individual import licenses when valued at CFAF 10,000 or more. In principle, the licenses are granted in accordance with an import program established each year; as yet, how- ever, the program has not been established, and almost all requests for import licenses from all sources are granted. There is no formal free list. The issuance of import licenses for printed piece goods of Japanese origin is conditional, in principle, on the purchase of a specified quantity of the local product; in practice, this requirement is no longer enforced. The Societe Nationale de Commerce (SONACOM) has an import monopoly for sugar cubes, rice, flour, canned milk, soap for household use, salt, tobacco and tobacco products, corrugated iron, and concrete reinforcement rods. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000. Import licenses entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, spot, but not earlier than one month before shipment if a docu- mentary credit is opened, or one month before the 409 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO payment is due if the commodities already have been imported. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted by a general authorization when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to non- residents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also generally permitted. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip (CFAF 87,500 for children under ten) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining after return to Togo must be surrendered within eight days of re-entry. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a maxi- mum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in Togo is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, residence permit, or work permit, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Residents may at any time and without indicating the purpose of the transfer make payments abroad, through an authorized bank, up to CFAF 50,000 a transfer. Resident and non- resident travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank- notes, French banknotes, and banknotes of other Opera- tions Account countries. Resident travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes, but if proceeding to a country that is not a member of the West African Monetary Union, they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 250,000. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coin up to the amount declared by them on e n t r y3 or, if no declaration has been made, up to the equivalent of CFAF 175,000. Nonresident travelers may also freely take out any amount of letters of credit and travelers checks drawn in their names abroad. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to all countries require licenses. All exports to South Africa are prohibited. The Office Togolais des Phosphates has a monopoly over the export of phos- phates and the Office des Produits Agricoles du Togo 3 This amount is adjusted for (1) the amount of foreign currency sold for CFA francs, and (2) any foreign currency acquired in Togo by (a) debit to a Foreign Account in Francs or a Foreign Account in Foreign Currency, (b) the conversion of foreign currency travelers checks, etc., made out in the name of the traveler, and (c) any repurchases of foreign currency (permitted up to CFAF 175,000) with CFA francs resulting from the sale of foreign currency. 410 (OPAT) has a monopoly over the export of cacao, coffee, cotton, groundnuts, and certain other agricultural commodities. The due date for payment for exports to foreign countries, including the French Franc Area, may not be later than 180 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination, and the proceeds must be surrendered within a month after the due date; author- ized diamond purchasing offices, however, may retain foreign currency proceeds in foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Togo. All export transactions relating to foreign countries, including the French Franc Area, must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisible transactions with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and surrendered within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank- notes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any institute of issue maintaining an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Residents bringing in foreign banknotes and foreign cur- rency travelers checks in excess of CFAF 5,000 must sell them to an authorized bank w i th in eight days. Capital Capital movements between Togo and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval by the Minister of Finance and Economy and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable) are main- tained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct invest- ment and all outward investment, over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Togo, and over the soliciting of funds in Togo for placing abroad. Such operations require prior authoriza- tion by the Minister of Finance and Economy. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connec- tion with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Togolese Government and (2) shares that are identical with, or may be substituted for, securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Togo has already been authorized. With the exception of controls relating to foreign securities and the soliciting of funds in Togo, these measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the West African Monetary Union, and the Operations ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Account countries. There also are special controls applicable to all countries other than Togo with respect to imports and exports of gold. All investments abroad by residents of Togo require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Economy.4 Foreign direct investments in Togo5 must be declared to the Minister of Finance and Economy before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration du r ing which he may request postponement of the projects. The total or partial liquidation of any inward direct invest- ment or any outward investment also requires prior declaration to the Minister of Finance and Economy. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Togolese investments abroad or foreign investments in Togo, must be reported to the Minister of Finance and Economy and to the BCEAO within 20 days following each operation. Direct invest- ments constitute investments implying control of a com- pany or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Borrowing by residents f rom nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Economy. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct invest- ment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; (3) loans taken up either by industrial firms to finance opera- tions abroad or by approved international merchanting houses to finance imports or exports; and (4) in certain circumstances, any other loans, provided that the out- standing amount for any one borrower does not exceed CFAF 100 million. The repayment of any foreign bor- rowing requires the prior authorization of the Minister of Finance and Economy; exempt from this require- ment are loans constituting a direct investment, loans taken up by authorized banks, and any loans exempted by the Minister. Lending abroad is subject only to special authorization by the Directorate of Economy. 4 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Togo and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad or companies in Togo. 5 Including those made by companies in Togo that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries in Togo of foreign companies. TOGO Under the provisions of the general tax legislation, certain fiscal benefits are accorded to specified new investment (foreign and domestic) in both new and existing enterprises. In addition, certain enterprises, in accordance with their importance to the economic development of Togo, may be granted special privileges for a specified number of years relating to the main- tenance of existing taxes and exemption f rom import duties. Such privileges are negotiated by the Govern- ment and the investor. An Investment Law, applicable to both foreign and domestic capital, sets out the types of enterprises that may be designated as "priority enterprises," provided that the head office is in Togo. Such firms may sign a special found ing agreement by which they receive cer- tain tax benefits. Firms that undertake to invest at least CFAF 25 million may receive a guaran tee in respect of their taxation over a number of years. The law guarantees the right of free transfer abroad of capital invested in Togo and of all investment income therefrom. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Togo. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other coun try require prior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance and Economy. Exempt from this requirement are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles C9n ta in ing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated arti- c les); and ( 3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to cus- toms declaration. Changes during 1980 May 19. Ministerial Order No. 179/MFE and Cir- cular No. 4 /MFE were issued: the former specified that, henceforth, for the purpose of domiciliation and repatriation of export proceeds, foreign countries should be defined as all countries other than Togo; the latter required that proceeds f rom exports to all destinations be collected and repatriated w i th in one month after the due date. 411 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO (Position on December 31, 2980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Trinidad and Tobago is the Trinidad and Tobago Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at TT$2.4 = US$1. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are TT$2.3970 and TT$2.4210, respectively, per US$1. Buy ing and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in mar- kets abroad. Administration of Control The authority to administer exchange control is vested in the Central Bank, acting as agent of the Government. The Central Bank has delegated its exchange control authority with respect to the approval of payments for visible imports to the Ministry of Industry and Com- merce, and with respect to payments up to specified amounts for certain current invisibles to authorized banks. The exchange control system provides for compulsory surrender of foreign currency2'3 and for control over both current and capital transactions. All overseas pay- ments and transfers require the approval of the exchange control authorities; payments to South Africa and Zim- babwe4 are prohibited. Short-term credit transactions, such as the granting of credit, loan, or overdraft facili- ties by resident banks to nonresidents and local non- resident-controlled companies, are also subject to control. Notes issued by the East Caribbean Currency Author- ity and the Central Bank of Barbados are not legal tender in Trinidad and Tobago, but under an arrangement w i th the monetary authorities concerned, the notes are pur- chased by the monetary authorities and are repatriated by them in return for reciprocity of treatment with respect to collections of Trinidad and Tobago dollars. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Trade and Commerce Division of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. Prescription of Currency Settlements may be made in sterling or in any other specified currency5 except South African and Zimbab- 1 Barbados dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche ma rk, East Caribbean dollars, French francs, Guyana dollars, Jamaica dollars, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. 2 Under Tr in idad and Tobago's exchange control regulations, all currencies other than the Trinidad and Tobago dollar are considered foreign currencies. 3 If the business of a t rade r, firm, or company involves f r equ ent receipts and paymen ts in fore ign currencies, permission may be granted for the retention of a portion of receipts in a Foreign Cur- rency Account, subject to the requ i rement that periodic statements of credits and debits to the account must be submitted to the authorities. 4 Exchange and trade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe ( fo rme r ly Rhodesia) were lifted on February 26, 1981. 5 Austrian schillings, Belgian f rancs, Burmese kya ts, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, 412 wean4 currencies. Authorized payments, including pay- ments for imports, to all countries may be made in sterling or in any other specified currency. Payments f rom all countries with which trade is allowed must be received in sterling or in any other specified currency. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: Exter- nal Accounts and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts may be opened by commercial banks for nonresidents of Trinidad and Tobago. These accounts may be credited with payments by residents of Trinidad and Tobago that have been approved by the exchange control authorities, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with proceeds from the sale of gold and foreign currencies to an authorized dealer. They may be debited for payments to residents of Trini- dad and Tobago, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of foreign currencies. The funds in these accounts are treated as equivalent to External Account sterling or any other foreign currency and may be transferred freely between residents of countries outside Trinidad and Tobago, with the excep- tion that transfers from External Accounts held by resi- dents of the Caribbean Common Market (CAR ICOM )° to any coun try outside Trinidad and Tobago other than that of the holder's residence are conditional upon the Central Bank being satisfied that the exchange control authorities of the holder's country of residence do not object. Blocked Accounts may be credited with funds that may not be credited to External Accounts (e.g., pro- ceeds f rom the sale by a nonresident of capital assets in Trinidad and Tobago or proceeds from the sale of for- eign securities). The use of balances on Blocked Accounts is subject to authorization. Blocked funds may be reinvested in local securities which are not redeem- able either optionally or contractually within four years from the date of acquisition. The income from such securities, and the proceeds at maturity of any that are redeemable, may be credited to an External Account. Imports and Import Payments While most commodities may be imported under open general license arrangements, some imports are subject to the provisions of a Negative List. The list cites over 400 items that are subject to regulation by specific license and also identifies countries that are accorded special trea tmen t. Thus, trade with South A f r ica and Zimbabwe (see footnote 4) is prohibited, and all imports Japanese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 6 The CARICOM countries are An t igua, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution from Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia are subject to specific licensing, irrespective of the Negative List status of the import concerned. At present, trade with these countries may be settled in U.S. dollars. Trade with CARICOM countries is effected in the national currency of the member countries con- cerned. Imports from all other countries may be paid for in any currency in which the goods are satisfactorily invoiced. The main items that are subject to the Negative List include cement, clothing, corrugated iron sheeting, cos- metics, saccharin, coffee and cocoa beans, and com- pletely assembled motor vehicles. Firearms, ammunition, and narcotics are either prohibited or rigidly controlled for security and health reasons. Certain food products are covered by the Agricultural Marketing Protocol of the CARICOM Treaty. Imports of rice and oils and fats are subject to state trading; rice is normally imported from Guyana at agreed prices.7 All imports of food and drugs must satisfy prescribed standards. Imports of meat, live animals, and plants are subject to specific regulation, as are imports of mining materials. All other commodities from all sources may be imported under open general license. Where specific import licenses are required they must be obtained from the Ministry of Industry and Commerce before orders are placed. Payments for all imports require exchange control approval. If prescription of currency arrange- ments are complied with, foreign exchange is granted w i thout restriction or undue delay, provided the author- ities are satisfied that no unauthorized capital transfer is involved. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles require the specific approval of the authorities. Applications for foreign exchange must be supported by appropriate documen- ta ry evidence. No restrictions are imposed on payments for current international transactions, except with respect to South Africa. Under authority delegated by the Cen- tral Bank the authorized banks may approve applications for foreign exchange within prescribed limits for certain transactions in invisibles. When additional amounts are needed, the approval of the authorities is required and this is granted provided that unauthorized capital trans- fers are not involved. The basic allowance for tourist travel is TT$2,500 a person a year, for business travel TT$350 a day for a maximum of 30 days for one trip, and for hea l th care TT$ 12,000 a year. Allowances for education abroad are TT$8,000 for schools, TT$12,000 for universities, and TT$ 1,200 for correspondence 7 Packaged rice may be imported th rough normal commercial channels, but such imports are not usually allowed f rom countries other than Guy ana unless the contracted supplies are not for thcom ing. TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO courses, and TT$700 once every two years for warm clothing. Residents and nonresidents may take out Trinidad and Tobago notes up to the equivalent of TT$50. Travelers who are regarded as residents of Trinidad and Tobago may export part of their basic travel allow- ance up to a maximum of TT$ 1,200 in foreign cur- rency notes. Nonresidents visiting Trinidad and Tobago may, on departure, take out foreign currency notes up to the amount brought in by them. Nonresidents leaving Trinidad and Tobago are allowed to reconvert Trinidad and Tobago dollar notes into foreign currency up to the equivalent of TT$ 1,200 upon showing evidence of hav- ing purchased such funds from authorized dealers. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa and Zimbabwe (see foot- note 4) are prohibited. Exports of certain goods usually require an ind iv idual license. These include some food- stuffs, arms and explosives, animals, gold, and petroleum and petroleum products produced in Trinidad and Tobago, as well as specified products not produced there. Exports of all other commodities are permitted by an open general license. In addition, general licenses may be issued at the discretion of the Ministry of Indus- try and Commerce; such licenses have been issued to permit pe tro leum companies and sugar companies to export w i thout specific licenses. The proceeds from sugar exports are sub ject to a tax, which varies on the basis of the price of the .export sale. Purchases of petro- leum and petroleum products from Trinidad and Tobago by other CARICOM countries are aided by the provisions of the CARICOM Oil Facility established by the Govern- ment; the facility provides long-term, low-interest loans to finance the increase over the level on January 1, 1979 in the cost of oil imports from Trinidad and Tobago by other CARICOM countries. Export proceeds received in foreign currencies must be surrendered, but exporters of certain goods, notably petroleum, may be authorized to retain abroad a portion of their proceeds. In practice, the petroleum companies operating in Trinidad and Tobago repatriate foreign exchange to the extent of their local currency needs. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom current invisibles received in foreign currencies must be surrendered. Insurance, shipping, and similar companies operating in Trinidad and Tobago are usually authorized to maintain operating accounts for receipts and expenditures in fore ign currency. These companies give periodic accounts of their exchange transactions to the authorities. Residents and nonresidents may bring in Trinidad and Tobago currency notes up to the equivalent of TT$50. Foreign currency notes may be imported freely by resi- dents and nonresidents. 413 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO Capital Capital transfers from Trinidad and Tobago require approval and generally are restricted. However, repay- ment of commercial credits is permitted freely, and gifts to nonresidents and emigration allowances are approved up to specified limits; fu r the rmo re, as a ma t ter of policy, capital transfers to other CARICOM countries are per- mitted liberally. Legacies may be expatriated in full. However, the Central Bank reserves the right to phase remittances up to a maximum of four years. Certain international institutions may be permitted to borrow in Trinidad and Tobago on a case-by-case basis. For transactions in securities, 14 authorized deposi- tories have been appointed. Restrictions are placed on the import and export of all securities other than securi- ties expressed in Trinidad and Tobago dollars. Contrac- tual amortization of sterling securities is permitted, and also of mortgages and other loans if the original bor- rowing occurred prior to September 1939 or was sub- sequently approved by the exchange control authorities. Proceeds from the sale of securities or other invest- ments owned by nonresidents of Trinidad and Tobago may not ordinarily be transferred and are eligible for credit only to a Blocked Account (see section on Non- resident Accounts, above ); however, approval is of ten given to residents to purchase such assets. All foreign investment, whether in cash or in kind, is normally eligible for repatriation provided it was registered with the Central Bank. Hence, when funds are received for investment, local banks should authenticate the receipt of such funds f rom External Accounts. In the event of an appreciation in the value of the asset concerned, the remittance of any funds in excess of the original invest- ment will normally be phased over a max imum of five years depending on the balance of payments situation. Residents may transfer prescribed securities to per- sons resident outside Trinidad and Tobago, with the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, pro- vided that the fu ll proceeds of sale are received in for- eign currency. Foreign exchange is not normally pro- vided for portfolio investment by residents in fore ign securities, but when securities are sold or redeemed in a market outside Trinidad and Tobago, the proceeds may either be brought in and sold to an authorized dealer at the official market rate of exchange or, with the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, be invested outside Trinidad and Tobago in similar securities. Nonresidents may sell local securities, provided that the proceeds are credited to a Blocked Account or are reinvested in other local securities which are e i ther irredeemable or are not redeemable within four years from the date of purchase. The laws of Trinidad and Tobago do not discriminate between nationals and foreigners in the formation and operation of companies in that country. Foreigners are required, however, to obtain a license under the Aliens (Landholding) Ordinance in order to hold interest in 414 real estate or to hold shares in local companies. Pro- spective fore ign investors must obtain approval for their project from the authorities in Trinidad and Tobago in order to be able to repatriate capital and capital gains. The Government has enacted basic incentive legisla- tion designed to attract domestic and foreign invest- ment in m anu f a c tu r ing and in import-substitution indus- tries. Since 1973 these policies have been effected within the f ramewo rk of a CARICOM agreement on ha rmon iza- tion of fiscal incentives. Certain concessions are gran ted to indus tr ies declared to be pioneer industries, i.e., indus- tries that have not previously existed in Trinidad and Tobago or wh ich are not being conducted on a commer- cial scale, or any indus t ry for which there are favorable prospects for f u t u re development. Every pioneer manu- fac tu rer is en t i t led to temporary relief f rom import duties and taxes and to other privileges. There are limitations on the extent to wh ich banks may g rant finance to nonresident ind iv idua ls and firms (o ther t h an residents of other CARICOM coun t r ies) and to nonresident-controlled local companies. Such com- panies are norma l ly required to raise any local capital needed to supp lement their assets by issuing either shares or bonds to residents of Trinidad and Tobago. Each commercial b ank must ma in ta in the mon th ly average of its net foreign exchange position within a specified quan t i ta t ive ceiling. Gold Gold is defined by the Exchange Con trol Act of 1970 as gold coin and bu l l ion. The regulations provide th a t, except w i th specific exemptions and permissions granted by the M in is ter of Finance ( 1) one pa r ty to every transac t ion in gold between residents must be an au thor- ized bank, (2) gold held by residents must be surren- dered to an au thor ized bank, and ( 3) gold may not be taken or sent out of Tr in idad and Tobago. Residents are perm i t ted in appropriate cases, however, to purchase, hold, or sell gold coins in Trinidad and Tobago for num isma t ic purposes. Control on the import and export of gold is adminis- tered by the M in is try of Indus t ry and Commerce. Imports of gold jewe l ry are on open general license, but imports of gold other th an jewelry are subject to specific import licenses issued by the M in is try of Indus t ry and Commerce; such licenses are not normally issued except to the mone ta ry authorities and authorized indus t r ial users. Exports of gold, whether jewelry or otherwise, are subject to specific export licenses issued by the Min- istry of Indu s t ry and Commerce; such licenses for gold other than jewelry are not no rma l ly granted except to the monetary authorities. Imports of unref ined gold f rom non-CARicoM sources are subject to import du ty at 5 per cent (preferen t ial d u t y) or 15 per cent (general d u t y ), and those of par t ly worked gold at 15 per cent (p re fe ren t ial d u t y) or 25 per cent (general d u t y ). Such imports are free of purchase tax. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Changes during 1980 June 13. The CARICOM Oil Facility was approved, with effect from January 1; under the facility, the Gov- ernment of Trinidad and Tobago undertook to provide long-term, low-interest loans to f inance the increase (over a base date of Janua ry 1, 1979) in the cost of imports of petroleum products from Trinidad and Tobago by other CARICOM countries. TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO 415 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Tunisia is the Tunisian Dinar. The exchange value of the dinar is determined in accordance with a basket of currencies. The buying and selling rates for foreign currencies1 are fixed daily by the Cen- tral Bank of Tunisia. On December 31, 1980 the spot buying and selling rates of the dinar were D 0.09172 and D 0.09264, respectively, per F 1, and D 0.4166 and D 0.4208, respectively, per US$1. Since February 1, 1979 forward quotations are provided daily for the deutsche mark, the French franc, and the U.S. dollar.2 The buying and selling rates of authorized banks are identical with those of the Central Bank. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank; some authority over payments for imports and invisibles is delegated to the authorized banks. Foreign trade control is administered by the Directorate of External Economic Relations of the Ministry of National Economy which determines, in consultation with the Central Bank, the imports that are to be prohibited or liberalized as well as the products that are to be sub jec t / to quotas in accordance with the Government's overall program and the trade agreements with foreign countries. The Directorate, in collaboration with the Central Bank, issues import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Settlements between Tunisia and foreign countries are made in convertible currencies quoted by the Central Bank1 or in convertible Tunisian dinars through Foreign Accounts. Settlements between Tunisia and Morocco, and certain settlements between Tunisia and Algeria, may be effected through accounts in the national cur- rencies concerned at the central banks. Payments to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars may be opened without authorization in the names of non- resident foreign nationals and of Tunisian workers abroad, and, with authorization, in the names of other Tunisian nonresidents. These accounts may be credited freely with dinar proceeds from sales to the Central Bank of convertible currencies (other than bankno tes), with interest (at the demand deposit and time deposit 1 Currencies quoted spot are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Libyan dinars, Moroccan dirhams, Nor- wegian kroner, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and U.S. dollars. In addition, the Central Bank quotes banknote rates for all of these currencies (except the Moroccan dirham) and for CFA francs, Kuwaiti dinars, Mali francs, Qatar riyals, and U.A.E. dirhams. 2 The forward rates are calculated for periods of one month to six months for the selling rates and of one, two, and three months for the buying rates. 416 rates applicable to residents) on balances in these accounts, and with transfers from other Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars; all other credits require prior authorization, either direct or by delegation. They may be debited freely for payments of any kind in Tunisia (irrespective of the country of residence of the paye r ), for transfers to other Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars, and for the purchase of any foreign currency f rom the Central Bank. Such currency may be transferred abroad or remitted in Tunisia to the account holder or to any other nonresident beneficiary. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Foreign Currencies may be established by nonresidents without authoriza- tion. They may be credited with convertible foreign currencies remitted to the account holder by a non- resident, with foreign currency purchased f rom the Central Bank by debit of a Foreign Account in Con- vertible Dinars, with authorized payments by residents in favor of the account holder, with interest payable by the authorized intermediaries on foreign exchange deposits in the accounts whenever they can use the funds thus deposited at remunerative rates, and with the proceeds f rom the cashing of checks, travelers checks, or d ra f ts expressed in convertible currencies and made out by a nonresident to the order of the account holder. The accounts may be debited at any time for the sale of foreign currency to the Central Bank, for transfers to any Foreign Account, for transfer abroad, or for delivery of foreign currency to the account holder or any other nonresident beneficiary. Capital Accounts may be opened in the name of a resident of any foreign country. The opening of a Capital Account by a nonresident of Tunisian nationality or his spouse must be authorized by the Central Bank. Foreign banks may hold global Capital Accounts for their nonresident customers. Subject to certain condi- tions, Capital Accounts may be credited, without prior approval of the Central Bank, with the proceeds of the sale on the stock exchange, or of the contractual or advance redemption, of Tunisian securities, the sales proceeds of real estate or rights to real estate situated in Tunisia, and with funds f rom a Capital Account held by a person having the nationality of a country belonging to the same monetary area as that of the holder of the account to be credited. Subject to certain conditions, these accounts may be debited freely for the purchase of quoted Tunisian securities, participations in Tunisian companies quoted on the stock exchange, and the acquisition of real estate. Irrespective of the account holder's country of residence, Capital Accounts may be debited for living expenses in Tunisia of the account holder and his family, up to D 50 a person a week and D 1,000 a fam i ly a year; the individual limit may be raised to D 100, subject to a limit of D 2,000 for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution each family visiting Tunisia between November 1 of each year and March 31 of the following year, pro- vided that the total amount used in any single year does not exceed D 2,000. They may also be debited, subject to certain conditions, for expenses connected with the management of Tunisian securities, the maintenance, repair, and insurance of real estate and all taxes, and for transfer to the credit of another Capital Account. These accounts may not be overdrawn. Balances held by physical persons of foreign nationality and not exceeding D 1,000 on December 31, 1973 or D 2,000 on May 31, 1975 are transferable abroad. Furthermore, balances outstanding on October 31, 1980 can be used up to December 31, 1982 for the purchase of five-year government bonds, when the amount utilized is not greater than D 10,000, and seven-year government bonds with funds utilized over and above that amount. Interest payments and repayments on maturing bonds are transferable through an authorized intermediary. Internal Nonresident Accounts are used by natural persons of foreign nationality staying temporarily in Tunisia and receiving income in dinars there; the open- ing of these accounts requires the approval of the Cen- tral Bank, and balances can be used only in Tunisia. Internal Nonresident Export Accounts may be cred- ited with the salaries of nonresident foreign nationals employed in enterprises benefiting from certain export incentives under Law No. 72-38 of April 27, 1972. Special Dinar Accounts. Nonresident foreign enter- prises operating on the Tunisian market may be author- ized to open Special Dinar Accounts intended to cover, totally or partially, their expenses in Tunisia. The Cen- tral Bank determines the operational and liquidation procedures for such accounts on a case-by-case basis. Balances in such accounts receive interest at the same rate as sight and time deposit accounts in dinars. Suspense Accounts are used for crediting all proceeds accruing in Tunisia to nonresidents where such pro- ceeds are awaiting utilization in Tunisia for specified purposes or Central Bank approval for transfer abroad or transfer to other nonresident accounts. Subject to certain conditions, Suspense Accounts may be debited, without the prior authorization of the Central Bank, in respect of purchases of Tunisian securities, subscrip- tions to issues of short-term debentures or bonds, port- folio management expenses in respect of certain secu- rities, payments to the Tunisian Government or public institutions, and settlement of living expenses incurred in Tunisia by the account holder (irrespective of his country of residence) or his family up to D 50 a person a week and D 1,000 a family a year; the individual limit may be raised to D 100, subject to a limit of D 2,000 a year for any one family. Physical persons of foreign nationality may transfer abroad assets that they hold if these did not exceed D 1,000 on December 31, 1973 or D 2,000 on May 31, 1975. All other debits to these accounts require the authorization of the Central Bank. TUNISIA Foreign Currency Savings Accounts may be main- tained with the Postal Administration in the names of Tunisian natural or juridical persons who are resident abroad. These accounts may be credited with the countervalue in dinars of convertible foreign currency transferred by the account holder by check or postal transfer. They may be debited freely. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South A f r ica are pro- hibited. Liberalized imports require only an import certificate, while all other imports require approval, which may be given within the framework of a bilateral quota or a global quota. Imports of nonliberalized goods require an import license f rom the Directorate of External Economic Relations and the visa of the Cen- tral Bank; when issuing the license, the Directorate of External Economic Relations, if necessary, consults with the appropriate technical ministry. Certain products may be imported from any country (except Israel and South A f r ica) under special pro- cedures, as fo l lows: Certain spare parts and a few other products required by industries may be imported without license against presentation of an importer's card up to D 500 a year for each importer. Certain products liberalized under Notice No. 116 may be imported under an import certificate. This procedure is used for spare parts imported by industry and the hotel trade which are intended for incorporation or utilization in their facilities or for capital goods author- ized by the Investment Promotion Agency. All products, except those imported under an import certificate, may be imported under an "annual import authorization," irrespective of the import regime (liberalized, prohibited, or subject to quota) or the ir country of origin. Indus- tries, particularly export-oriented industries and agencies responsible for supplying certain essential goods for domestic use, may avail themselves of this annual authorization. Manufacturing industries producing exclusively for export and covered by Law No. 72-38 may import freely any goods required for their production process, subject only to a customs declaration. Consumer goods listed under some 332 tar iff items or subitems are licensed only within an overall foreign exchange ceiling set by the Ministry of Planning and Finance. Imports of certain goods are licensed in such a manner as to ensure that payment is made within the framework of government loans. Other goods that are subject to government monopoly are imported only by a single operator or by public agencies —mainly the Regie Nationale des Tabacs et Allumettes (matches, playing cards, and tobacco), the Office du Commerce Exterieur et des Autorisations (coffee, tea, and sug a r ), the Office des Cereales (g ra ins ), and the Pharmacie Centrale de Tunisie (drugs). Pro- hibited imports by such agencies are subject to the same licensing arrangements as private imports. 417 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA To obtain an import certificate, an import authori- zation, an import license, or an importer's card, importers must have received a customs code number. All import documents involving payments must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Foreign currency may be purchased from the Central Bank for all pay- ments that have received proper and prior authoriza- tion. Resident importers are authorized to buy forward foreign currencies required for fu tu re settlement of their merchandise imports, for a maximum term of six months. In addition to customs duties, a number of import taxes are applied. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the approval of the Central Bank; for some transactions this authority has been delegated to the authorized banks. Payments for a number of current invisibles are approved, provided that they are properly documented. These include ( 1) various payments related to inter- national trade (e.g., port services, warehousing, com- missions, and brokerage); (2) payments for processing, repair, assembly, royalties, patents and trademarks, taxes, fines, and court expenses; and (3) payment of interest and amortization arising from authorized con- tractual obligations to nonresidents. Approval is also given freely for remittance of certain dividends due to nonresidents. In addition, exporters holding balances on EFAC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below) may use these freely for expenditures abroad in connection with participation in international trade fa irs, and to pay customs duties and various other expenses related to exports. Exporters as well as hotel owners may use EFAC balances freely for expenses related to publicity abroad, and up to fixed limits (see below) for certain other expenses. Natural persons and enterprises producing for export within the framework of Law No. 72-38 may freely make payments related to their production process; amounts in convertible dinars credited to the Business Travel Accounts of resident firms covered by Law No. 72-38 may be used for business travel up to D 4,000 a year for each enterprise. Payments for certain other current invisibles are approved up to fixed limits. Residents traveling abroad as tourists are entitled once a year to an exchange allocation equivalent to D 100 a person (D 50 for chil- dren under t e n ); the allocations for two consecutive years may be cumulated. The allocation for study abroad is D 100 a month. Exporters and hotel owners holding EFAC accounts may use such balances up to the equivalent of D 2,000 a year for business travel abroad. A foreign national employed under contract may trans- fer up to 50 per cent of his net wage or salary without limit if his fam i ly is not resident in Tunisia and subject to a maximum of D 150 a month if his family lives in 418 Tunisia.3 Foreign experts employed by the public sec- tor may transfer abroad their monthly salaries up to the limits specified in their contracts. Foreign salaried workers born in Tunisia may transfer 30 per cent of their net basic salaries, up to D 80 a month. The export of Tunisian dinar banknotes or coin is prohibited. Unless Central Bank permission is obtained, the reconversion of domestic banknotes by nonresident travelers is restricted to 30 per cent of the amount of foreign currency previously sold, subject to a maximum of D 100, if the traveler's stay in Tunisia exceeds 24 hours; if it does not exceed 24 hours, there is no limita- tion on the reconversion. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Certain exports are liberalized. The export of wine is the monopoly of the Office du Vin, the export of cereals that of the Office des Cereales, and the export of olive oil that of the Office National de 1'Huile. With the exceptions noted below, all export proceeds must be repatriated and surrendered, normally within 15 days from the date payment is due if no credit is extended or, unless special authorization from the Central Bank is obtained, within 100 days af ter shipment if the goods are sold on credit. Resident exporters may sell forward for a maximum term of three months, through author- ized intermediaries, foreign currencies representing the proceeds from their merchandise exports. Exporters and hotel owners may arrange to credit part of their export proceeds to special EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts denominated in convertible dinars. For exporters the limits are 4 per cent if export proceeds are repatriated more than 30 days after ship- ment of the merchandise, and 6 per cent if repatriation occurs within 30 days following shipment. Hotel owners may credit to such accounts up to 4 per cent of their foreign exchange proceeds. Authorized intermediaries may grant surety bonds and performance bonds to resident exporters and to resident exporting enterprises eligible under Law No. 72-38. Resident manufac tur ing industries that produce exclusively for export and are approved under the terms of Law No. 72-38 may arrange to credit 2 per cent of their repatriated convertible cur- rency export proceeds to Business Travel Accounts in Convertible Dinars. Under the provisions of Law No. 72-38, nonresident manufacturing enterprises (i.e., enterprises whose capital is held by nonresidents and has been constituted to the extent of at least 66 per cent through the import of con- vertible currencies) producing exclusively for export are exempt f rom the requirement of repatriation and surrender of export proceeds. 3 There are special regulations for those employed by nonresident manufacturing enterprises covered by Law No. 72-38 and producing exclusively for export. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Proceeds from Invisibles Residents must repatriate and surrender all amounts derived from services rendered to persons resident abroad and also all other income or proceeds from invisibles received f rom foreign countries. However, there are certain EFAC facilities for such proceeds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Foreign banknotes and coin (except gold coin) may be brought in freely; nonresident travelers wishing to re-export the equivalent of over D 500 must make a currency declaration upon entry. The import of Tunisian dinar banknotes and coin is prohibited. Capital All nonresidents who wish to invest in Tunisia are required to obtain the prior approval of the Tunisian authorities in order to be able to t rans fer the principal of, and current earnings from, such investments. Foreign investment in Tunisia may obtain the benefits provided for by the Investment Code (Law No. 69-35) and by Law No. 74-74 on investment in manufac tur ing industry. These include a number of tax facilities as well as a guarantee of the right to repatriate the capital invested in foreign currency or the net proceeds of sale or liquidation, even if this amount exceeds the amount initially invested in foreign currency plus the earnings on that capital. Furthermore, Law No. 72-38 provides for various special benefits for nonresident manufac tur- ing enterprises, including an exemption f rom the repa- triation requirement in respect of export proceeds. Law No. 76-63 provides for the establishment in Tunisia, subject to prior approval by the Ministry of Planning and Finance and the Central Bank, of foreign financial and bank ing institutions conducting business with non- residents. However, these institutions may also grant credits to residents or take up participations in the capital of resident companies upon authorization from the Central Bank. Such institutions are regarded as nonresident for exchange control purposes; they need not repatriate any of their funds or proceeds and may freely extend credit to nonresidents for the investment TUNISIA and working capital requirements of enterprises in Tunisia. Foreign nationals who have been residents of Tunisia and have left Tunisia permanently are entitled to the transfer of the following: 50 per cent of their assets (subject to a ceiling of D 3,500) for those who left Tunisia before August 20, 1970;4 D 4,000 for those who left between August 20, 1970 and December 31, 1973; D 5,000 for those who left between January 1, 1974 and December 31, 1974; D 10,000 for those who left after December 31, 1974; and D 15,000 for those leaving Tunisia af ter December 31, 1978, provided they are Tunisian-born and over 60 years of age at the time of their departure. All capital transfers by residents and all loans to nonresidents require the approval of the Central Bank. Donations or the proceeds f rom inheritances accruing to nonresidents are credited to Capital Accounts. The amortization of loans taken up with Central Bank approval f rom nonresidents is freely transferable. Gold Five commemorative gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may acquire and hold gold in any form in Tunisia. The Central Bank has a monopoly over the import and export of monetary gold. Other imports of gold require joint authorization by the Central Bank and the Ministry of Commerce. Only dentists and specified cooperatives of industrial users are eligible to purchase gold f rom the Central Bank. The export of gold is prohibited. Changes during 1980 April 18. Exchange and trade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe ( fo rme r ly Rhodesia) were lifted. December 31. Law No. 80-88 (the Financial Admin- istration Law) was issued, Article 30 of which specified that imports must be insured domestically. * Such persons may transfer D 1,750 if the total amount of their assets does not exceed D 3,500. 419 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Turkey is the Turkish Lira. The authorities of Turkey do not observe margins in respect of exchange transactions and Turkey follows a flexible exchange rate policy by which exchange rates for the lira are adjusted from time to time. On December 31, 1980 the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were LT 89.25 and LT 91.04, respectively, per US$1. A preferential rate is applied to purchases of foreign exchange for the import of fertilizers, inputs for fertilizer production, insecticides, and inputs for insecticides. On December 31, 1980 this rate was LT 77.4 = US$1. The difference between this rate and the official rate is financed through levies on selected agricultural exports. Additional, more depreciated rates result from the arrangement for the retention and transfer of 50 per cent of the foreign exchange obtained from exports of mining products and manufactures; 10 per cent of receipts from exports of fresh vegetables, fruits, and fish; and 10 per cent of earnings of Turkish contractors working abroad. In addition, the Government provides foreign exchange to students who left Turkey before January 25, 1980 at the rate in effect at the time of departure. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance. Trade control is the responsibility of the Ministry of Commerce, which also prepares the import programs. The Ministry of Commerce, or the Central Bank on the advice of the Ministry, allocates foreign exchange; certain foreign exchange allocations for imports, including commodities on liberalized list II, require the prior approval of the appropriate ministry; for the public sector, such exchange allocations are made by the Ministry of Finance. The Central Bank issues import licenses on instructions of the Ministry of Com- merce. Export registration is carried out by professional organizations (the Exporters Union, the Chambers of Commerce, of Industry, and of Commerce and Industry) according to the instructions of the Ministry of Com- merce; export licenses are issued by this Ministry, which may delegate the issuance of export licenses to the pro- fessional organizations. Import and export licenses for gold, however, are issued by the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency and Nonresident Accounts Settlements with countries with which Turkey has bilateral payments agreements1 are made in accordance with the terms of the relevant agreement, but proceeds from exports to these countries may be received in any convertible currency. Certain commercial settle- 1 Albania and U.S.S.R. 420 ments with Iraq, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and Romania and with the other members of the Regional Cooperation for Development (Iran and Pakistan) are made through special accounts denominated in U.S. dollars. Settlements with all other countries are made in convertible currencies. Proceeds from exports to specified countries in Western Europe2 must be received in the currency of a country in this group. Nonresidents as well as resident juridical persons are no longer per- mitted to open or to add to demand or time accounts in Turkey that are denominated in convertible Turkish liras and which bear an exchange guarantee by the Central Bank (see section on Capital, below). Imports and Import Payments Imports of old, used and reconditioned, defective, substandard, soiled, or poor-quality goods are prohibited, except with the authorization of the Ministry of Com- merce. All commercial imports require import licenses, which are valid for 6 months, and, generally, goods must be cleared through the customs within 6 months and 20 days. In exceptional cases, the validity of import licenses is extended by a period not exceeding 8 months. Import licenses are issued to registered importers, industrialists, state economic enterprises, and government departments. Private individuals and corporate bodies are required to secure an import certificate issued by the Ministry of Commerce before submitting applications through the authorized banks for licenses to import goods for commercial purposes. The importer's tax status is taken into consideration when granting such certificates. Exporters, mine opera- tors, shipowners, building contractors who have under- taken the construction of state establishments, tourist establishments, and registered manufac turers are also required to secure an import certificate for imports to be used exclusively for their own needs; a certificate establishing their qualifications is issued by the respec- tive public authority, i.e., the Chambers of Commerce and Industry, the Exporters Union, or the Ministry of Tourism and Informa t ion. Most goods are imported in accordance with the provisions of import programs which are planned for one year. The import programs classify imports in two categories: (1) An annual list of liberalized goods, consisting of two parts (lists I and I I ). There are no limits as to either value or quantity of goods brought in under these lists. Import licenses are issued freely and applications for import licenses for goods on the liberalized lists may be submitted at any time to author- ized banks, which transfer them to the Central Bank for issuance of the import licenses. However, before 2 Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and United Kingdom. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution an import license may be issued for goods to be imported under list II, approval of the appropriate government department is required. (2) A list of goods subject to global quotas published annually. Imports of goods that do not appear on any of these lists are prohibited; certain of these commodities, however, may be imported when specifically authorized by the Ministry of Com- merce. The list of liberalized goods and the list of global quotas apply, in principle, only to imports from countries other than those with which Turkey has bilateral payments agreements;3 goods not included in either of these two import lists may not be imported under the bilateral quotas. Certain imports from mem- ber countries of the EC are included in a list of liberal- ized items consolidated to the EC and these are free of quantitative restriction; most of the items on this list are included in liberalized lists I and II. The list of import quotas contains quotas for regis- tered importers and for industrialists, which are allocated twice a year. Imports on the quota list are subdivided into two broad categories, depending on whether they do or do not require a permit from a specified public body. Foreign exchange allocations for all quota imports within the quantitative limit established for each quota item are made by the Ministry of Commerce. Some of the quota imports also require a certificate confirming that the articles are not manufactured domestically or that local supplies are inadequate as to either quantity or quality; this certificate is issued by the Ministry of Industry and Technology. Registered importers have to submit their applications for goods not requiring a permit through an authorized bank and the Central Bank to the Ministry of Commerce during the first two months of each semester. The Ministry of Commerce issues a foreign exchange allocation letter valid for three months, and an import license must be secured from the Central Bank within this period. Applications for imports against industrialists' quotas where no permit is required have to be submitted through the Chambers of Commerce and Industry to the Ministry of Commerce in April and September of each year. Applications for quota imports requiring a permit from a specified public authority must be submitted to the responsible body by importers and by industrialists. An import license must then be secured from the Central Bank within the period of validity of the exchange allocation. The import license, in principle, permits the necessary foreign exchange payment to be made. Payments for imports may be made against letters of credit, documents, or goods (i.e., upon customs clearance). For payment against letters of credit or documents, all importers (with the exception of govern- ment departments), are required to prepay in local 3 When permitting imports of goods on the liberalized or quo ta lists from countries other than the payments agreement countries or member countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Develop- ment (OECD), the Ministry of Commerce takes into account the balance of trade and payments with these countries. TURKEY currency the equivalent of the foreign exchange for which they have applied. The prepayments are trans- ferred to the Central Bank by the authorized bank within five days. For payment against goods, one half of the local currency counterpart of the value of the consign- ment has to be deposited at the time of application for the import license and the balance at the date of customs clearance. Importers are formally required to effect the relative foreign exchange transfer within five months from the date of the import license for payments against docu- ments and within two months from the date of customs clearance for payments against goods. Since March 1977, however, the Central Bank has limited foreign exchange payments for imports to raw materials and other essential commodities. Beginning late in 1976, large arrears of payments for imports have emerged. There is also a large amount of outstanding applications with the Central Bank for authorization of letters of credit. The local currency counterparts of both these applications and the arrears have been deposited with the Central Bank and are being held in a special account. Exchange rate adjustments for officially quoted cur- rencies entail changes in required import deposits. Importers are required to increase their deposits in the special account or they may receive reimbursement from the special account in the following cases: (1) when foreign exchange has been sold to the importer but the goods have not yet been imported, (2) when no foreign exchange has been sold and the goods have not been cleared by customs, and (3) when no foreign exchange has been sold, but the goods have been cleared by customs. Imports from bilateral agreement countries are sub- ject to separate quotas. These are established only for commodities that appear on the liberalized or global quota lists. The import licensing procedure for goods from these countries is the same as for imports under global quotas, except that applications under the bilateral quotas specified in each agreement are submitted by the Central Bank or the responsible public authority to the Ministry of Commerce on a monthly basis. Financing through acceptance credits with a minimum maturity of 180 days is permitted for certain imports, including imports by industrialists for their own use. Turkish banks have been requested to use half of their total acceptance credit financing for imports of petroleum and fertilizers. In principle, commercial banks have to meet all foreign exchange needs arising from acceptance credit financing from their own foreign exchange resources. Banks can apply at the Central Bank for the transfer of foreign exchange but, as a consequence, they lose the right to carry out fu tu re acceptance credit operations. Guarantee deposits for imports are payable in advance, generally as follows: for goods on liberalized 421 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY list I and list II for industrialists' own requirements, 15 per cent and 10 per cent, respectively, of the value of the merchandise; for other liberalized list I and list II imports, 30 per cent and 20 per cent, respectively; for imports under global quotas and for industrialists' quotas, 10 per cent, and for importers' quotas, 20 per cent.4 Public sector imports, with the exception of those for national security or defense, are subject to a 10 per cent advance import deposit requirement. For imports under bilateral quotas the rate of guarantee deposit depends on the list on which the goods are included if imported f rom a nonpayments agreement country. Guarantee deposits are payable irrespective of the method of payment. The public sector is exempt, however, and in many cases industrialists make a sym- bolic deposit of 1 per cent (on imports under invest- ment quotas set aside for their use and applicable to convertible currency countries only, or on imports under investment quotas in bilateral agreemen ts). The deposit remains blocked until the goods have been cleared through customs and the foreign supplier is pa id; it is then refunded to the importer. The guarantee deposits collected are transferred weekly to an account held by the Central Bank in the name of the authorized bank. Should imports not be made in conformity with the regulations, a part of the guarantee deposit correspond- ing to up to 10 per cent of the value of such imports is forfeited to the Treasury. Private compensation transactions are not permitted in any form, except that the Ministry of Commerce is authorized to conclude agreements to dispose of goods acquired through price supporting purchases made by the State. There are special arrangements for the allocation of foreign exchange for exporters of manufac tures and industrial and mining products who are entitled to foreign exchange allocations equivalent to 50 per cent of exports for their own import needs or the import needs of their subcontractors. These entitlements can be transferred at a freely determined price to other industrialists, provided the foreign exchange is used to finance importation of inputs for export production. Exporters are entitled to use these foreign exchange earnings for payments for goods up to twice the amount of inputs imported under the "cash against goods" scheme. Furthermore, manufacturers who have export orders in hand, or are willing to guarantee exports of a specific value, are allowed to arrange for credits abroad in order to finance their import needs, up to 50 per cent of the value of the export orders in hand or 50 per cent of their export commitment. The arrangements 4 For fertilizers, ammonia, breeding animals, and certain products on liberalized list II and the global quo tas, the ra te is 1 per cent. For materials used for shipbuilding, repair, and modification carried out within the country, and for the construction of shipyards, the rate is 0.1 per cent, provided the value of imports does not exceed LT 25,000; when ships are built abroad or are purchased abroad, the rate is 0.2 per cent, provided the value of gua ran tee deposits does not exceed LT 50,000. 422 for credits are subject to the condition that the exporter will repay the external credits out of export earnings. The Government makes available to manufac turers foreign exchange conversion authorizations from the Export Promotion Foreign Exchange Fund established in 1970. Moreover, exporters are entitled to priority in foreign exchange allocations equivalent to 1 per cent of their foreign exchange receipts in the previous year, subject to a l im it of US$50,000. Imports without an allocation of foreign exchange may be perm i t ted by the customs authorities, the Cen- tral Bank, or the Ministry of Finance, under certain conditions. Travelers domiciled in Turkey may br ing in for personal or professional (but noncommercial) use goods and machinery up to a limit (in terms of total import duties applicable) of the Turkish lira equivalent of DM 350. Separate limits and conditions apply to imports of goods for personal use, and of professional ins trumen ts and machines, by persons who have resided abroad for employment or s tudy; these va ry with the length of stay abroad and with the t ran s fer of foreign exchange to Turkey. Companies or cooperatives formed in Turkey by residents temporarily working abroad may import investment goods to the extent of the foreign exchange invested. In addition to personal effects, for- eign tourists may import goods and mach ine ry for their personal or fam i ly use. Foreign contractors may temporarily import machin- ery, vehicles, and scientific ins t rumen ts w i thout request- ing an allocation of fore ign exchange, provided that the goods are proved to be necessary for their operations in Turkey. Foreign companies established in Turkey may import spare par ts not intended for new investments without requesting an allocation of fore ign exchange, provided that the goods are necessary for their opera- tions. All such imports require the permission of the exchange control authorities. The sale or t rans fer in Turkey of goods imported on these terms is subject to the approval of the M in is try of Finance. Imports of automobiles,5 tractors, or professional machinery, etc., w i thout payment of foreign exchange may be permitted by the Central Bank or the Ministry of Finance, provided that certain conditions are met relating to residence abroad and to remittance and sale of foreign exchange to authorized banks in Turkey. Automobiles imported without a fore ign exchange allo- cation may be sold to residents by the Turk ish na t iona ls who had imported them. Foreign diplomats in Turkey may sell their automobiles to Turkish residents, provided that the necessary import duties are paid at the time of the sale, that Turkish diplomats in the seller's country are granted reciprocal privileges, and that the proceeds from such sales are not t rans fe r red absoad. Foreign officials, other than diplomats, may not sell to Turkish nationals any automobiles imported du ty f ree under special agreements. Other fore ign nationals resident in B Automobiles are not included in the import program. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Turkey may import automobiles under certain condi- tions, but these must be exported af ter three years; however, this three-year period may be extended, and the Ministry of Finance may also permit the sale of such cars to the State Supply Office or to nonprofit organizations. In addition to customs duty, imported goods are sub- ject to the following charges: (1) a customs surcharge (municipal tax) of 15 per cent of the applicable cus- toms duty; (2) a stamp duty of 1 per cent of the declared value; (3) a quay duty of 5 per cent on the sum of c.i.f. value, customs duty, customs surcharge, and customs clearance expenses; and (4) a production tax ranging from 10 per cent to 75 per cent on the sum of c.i.f. value, customs duty, customs surcharge, customs clearing expenses, and quay duty. The quay duty is not payable on goods imported by air. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses which usually are issued by the Central Bank. These are granted liberally for the following purposes, pro- vided that applications are accompanied by specified documents: payments related to trade ( inc lud ing ship- ping costs and expenditures connected w i th other freight charges), subscriptions to newspapers and periodicals, purchases of books, payments for registra- tion fees, advertising expenses, consulate income, pay- ments by the Government, payments by the Post Office Administration and similar state institutions, banks' commissions and expenses, a proportion of insurance companies' payments, specified technical assistance, repair and assembly expenses, and legal fees for com- mercial transactions. The transfer of income related to foreign investments approved under the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Investment is permitted freely. Interest on long-term loans and credits extended by nonresidents to enterprises in Turkey (including those of an agricultural na ture) may be granted trans- ferability between foreign nationals both in Turkey and abroad. Turkish citizens may not leave the country without obtaining an allocation of foreign exchange for travel, but this does not apply to foreign nationals residing in Turkey. Tourist travel is restricted, in effect, to one trip a person every three years, and one tr ip a person a year to Cyprus. A tax of 50 per cent is applied to the purchase of foreign exchange by Turkish nationals traveling abroad. The maximum foreign exchange allowance for tourism is the equivalent of US$500. Exchange for business travel is granted up to an annual maximum limit of US$2,500, individual limits being determined in accordance with the taxable income of the applicant firm; for businessmen in exporting busi- nesses the limit is related to the export earnings of their firms. Exchange for travel abroad for other purposes (e.g., education, participation in international meetings, TURKEY fairs, and athletic meets, and personal business) is sold up to specified limits. In addition, persons who can certify that it is necessary for them to travel abroad for medical treatment may purchase the necessary foreign exchange. Travelers are permitted to take out LT 1,000 in Turkish banknotes and coin. Nonresidents may take out without any restriction the unspent portion of the foreign exchange which they brought in. Nonresident travelers who wish to reconvert liras in to foreign cur- rency when leaving the coun try are required to present a document showing that fore ign exchange had pre- viously been sold to an authorized dealer in Turkey. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to bilateral countries, exports of the com- modities listed in the appendix of the export program,6 re-exports irrespective of destination, and temporary exports require an export license in order to prevent re-exports and to assure adequate supplies for the domestic marke t. Most other exports need to be regis- tered. Commercial export prices must conform to the checklist of prices fixed at intervals by the M in is t ry of Commerce on the basis of prices in domestic and foreign marke ts. Exports of goods subject ne i ther to registration nor to license may be effected freely. The prices of exports to free trade areas or to du ty- free shops abroad are approved ex post at the t ime the goods are delivered or at the t ime of sale. Such exports require an export perm it issued by the M in i s t ry of Commerce. Transit t rade items are not subject to price controls, although the purchase price and any commis- sion earned must be brought in to Turkey. Exporters are required to sell to a bank in Turkey the foreign exchange proceeds of goods exported w i th in three months f rom the date of export or w i th in ten days from the date on which the fo re ign exchange is placed at the ir disposal. They are perm i t ted to export on three-year credit terms, however, against payment in convertible currency and subject to a bank guarantee. While all export proceeds, in principle, are converted at current exchange rates, exporters receive f rom a special account in the Central Bank the d i f fe rence between the exchange rate at the time of export licens- ing, registration, or customs declaration and the current exchange rate if the difference is in their favor. Forward sales may be made only when payment is to be received f rom the free currency area; price conformity for forward sales is required at the time the export contract is concluded. Under an export tax rebate scheme, direct and indirect taxes paid are re funded when manu fac tu res or indus t r ial products are exported. The rates of rebate range f r om 5 per cent to 35 per cent of export value. Other tax 6 Cereals, certain minerals such as mo lybdenum, wo l f r am, and iron ore, articles made of precious metals or stones, vegetable oils, oilseeds, skins, fer t i l izers, cattle, meat, timber, and paper. (However, this list may be changed whenever the export regime is renewed .) 423 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY refunds apply for certain goods when exported to bilateral payments agreement countries. Tax incentives include the exemption of export earnings from income and corporation taxes and the exemption of export goods from production tax. Exporters of specified goods also have access to credit at preferential interest rates from a Special Export Fund. Proceeds from Invisibles Firms or individuals not in the category of authorized institutions cannot accept more than the equivalent of US$100 from foreign tourists and are required to sur- render any exchange earnings in the form of foreign banknotes and travelers checks to an authorized bank within ten days. Otherwise, foreign exchange accruing to residents for services rendered by them to non- residents must be surrendered to an authorized exchange dealer within three months f rom the date on which the service was rendered or within ten days from the date of acquisition of the exchange. Foreign travelers wish- ing to take out articles with a value exceeding LT 2,000 must show proof that they have converted foreign exchange to cover the portion of the cost exceeding this limit. The import of Turkish banknotes and coin by trav- elers (whether of Turkish or foreign nationality) is limited to LT 1,000. The import of foreign currency by travelers is unrestricted. Capital Foreign investments in Turkey require approval. Capital transfers abroad by residents and capital trans- actions between residents and nonresidents are subject to the approval of the exchange control authorities. Subject to specific permission issued by the Ministry of Finance, residents may acquire foreign securities. Resi- dents are required to obtain permission to acquire foreign real estate. With the exception of certain investments made in accordance with the provisions of the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Investments or the Petroleum Law, foreign companies and contractors who wish to do business in Turkey must import the required capital and operating funds in the fo rm of foreign exchange, although under certain conditions blocked funds may be used for investment in the tourist industry. Borrow- ing in Turkish liras by such foreign companies and contractors is subject to quotas set by the Ministry of Finance in accordance with their equity capital in Tur- key, but special facilities exist for borrowing f rom the "Blocked Currencies Fund" at the Central Bank. Blocked funds are those accrued or accruing to non- residents but not transferable under the existing exchange control regulations. These include the sale proceeds of real estate situated in Turkey and owned by nonresident physical or juridical persons. Except for approved investments, nonresidents may not convert into foreign currency any assets or balances owned by 424 them, or earnings accruing to them; all earnings are blocked but if, at the end of the calendar year, such earnings are less than LT 10,000, the amount involved is released. Subject to individual permission, blocked assets and balances may be utilized within Turkey, e.g., for the payment of taxes, insurance, and maintenance and repair of property, and for living expenses of up to LT 30,000 a month for each beneficiary for owners of such funds or their authorized representatives, and up to LT 15,000 for certain relatives. Normally, such blocked funds may not be transferred to others except by legal succession. The investment of blocked funds in the tourist industry is subject to the following con- ditions : ( 1) there must be a contribution in new foreign exchange or imported equipment equal to at least 50 per cent of the blocked funds to be used and (2) the investor must undertake not to request transfer for at least five years of that part of the capital financed by means of the blocked funds. Blocked funds used in this manner are considered as foreign capital imported under the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Investments. A portion of 75 per cent of any holder's blocked funds can be transferred to the Blocked Currencies Fund at the Central Bank, from which nonresidents may receive credits for their partner companies' investment requirements in Turkey, provided the permission of the Ministry of Finance is obtained. Dividends and profits derived from these credits are blocked and are nontrans- ferable. Balances on nonresident accounts established at the Central Bank in accordance with the Paris Agreement on Commercial Debts Owed by Residents of Turkey (1959) may be used either partially or wholly by the creditors for investment or to pay expenses in Turkey at any time prior to the date, established under the Agreement, when the balances may be transferred. The use of these balances for investment purposes is subject to the provisions of the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Investments. However, invested funds and income related thereto may not be transferred abroad before the transfer date established under the Agreement, except for investment in export industries or in other industries earning foreign exchange; in such instances the equivalent of up to 25 per cent of the investment may be transferred annually. Foreign capital invested in Turkey under the terms of the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Invest- ments is accorded preferential treatment. All or part of the invested capital or foreign loans may be remitted abroad in the original currency of the capital. Upon application, the Ministry of Finance guarantees the transfer of dividends and of the proceeds from the sale or liquidation of shares or stock certificates registered on the books of the companies established under the law. Such registered shares or stock certificates are freely transferable between foreign nationals, both in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Turkey and abroad, and between foreign nationals and residents. The transfer guarantees pass on to the new owner, provided that his name is notified to the Ministry of Finance; if the shares or stock certificates are sold to a resident, however, they must be presented to the Ministry of Finance for cancellation of the guar- antees. The capital and interest on long-term loans and credits extended by nonresidents to enterprises in Turkey (including those of an agricultural na ture) may be accorded the same transfer benefits. Foreign capital imported under the Petroleum Law is accorded addi- tional preferential treatment. Foreign investments out- side the petroleum sector may be made "under the monetary regulations," in which case the investor is not entitled to any transfer facilities for earnings or liquidation proceeds. Transactions in securities, including their export and import, require approval when nonresident interests are involved. There are special facilities for the acquisi- tion by Turkish citizens working abroad of Turkish shares and bonds. Nonresidents and Turkish nationals working abroad are no longer permitted to open demand and time accounts with commercial banks in convertible Turkish liras, carrying an exchange guarantee of the Central Bank. On existing accounts, the exchange rate guarantee is limited to the amount of deposits held on March 1, 1978. In addition, authorized banks with deposits exceeding LT 2 billion or with exchange proceeds exceeding US$30 million are permitted to incur an overall foreign exchange position (in currencies pur- chased and sold by the Central Bank) of up to US$20 million. Since 1978 arrears have developed in respect of repayments of ma tur ing convertible Turkish lira deposits and on August 29, 1979 a rescheduling agree- ment was reached with the foreign commercial banks. With the exception of borrowing by the Government from foreign governments or government agencies and from international institutions, all private sector and public sector borrowing abroad is regulated. The total amount of private and public sector borrowing abroad from private sources, including suppliers' credits, is determined in an annual program by the Ministry of Finance, which also specifies the eligible sectors and projects. The Ministry of Finance, after consultation with other ministries if appropriate, is authorized to approve such credits and to issue a guarantee of the transferability of the foreign exchange. It is the respon- sibility of the intermediating bank to guarantee the repayment in liras. Turkish borrowers pay that bank the relevant commissions, and expenses up to 1 per cent. Regulations issued by the Ministry of Finance specify that the maturity of such credits must not be less than two years, and the rate of interest must not exceed the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) by more than 2.25 per cent. TURKEY Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Turkey for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad; any unworked gold held in Turkey, however, may be pre- sented for minting by the State Mint. Gold may be imported freely, provided it is sold to the Central Bank. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1980 January 25. As a first step leading to seven subsequent changes in the course of the year, buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were adjusted from LT 35.00 = US$1 and LT 35.70 = US$1, respectively, to LT 70.00 = US$1 and LT71.40 = US$1, respectively, with the following exceptions: (1) Remittances from Turkish workers abroad continued to benefit f rom the provisions for immediate credit of three years' interest at the time of the deposit; the nominal rate applied to such receipts was LT 52.50 per US$1; with the additional interest, however, the effective buy ing rate became LT 70.00 per US$1. (2) The sale of foreign exchange for tourism abroad con t inued to be subject to a 50 per cent sales tax; sales of exchange took place at the rate of LT 47.60 per US$1 which, with the tax, resulted in an effective selling rate of LT 71.40 per US$1. ( 3) Interim arrange- ments were made to facilitate the transition to the new exchange rate system, as follows: (a) remittances for students whose studies abroad commenced prior to June 12, 1979, a rate of LT 26.50 per US$1 would apply until August 31, 1980; for other students who left Turkey prior to January 25, 1980 the rate in effect at the time of departure would be applied; (b) for receipts of foreign exchange obtained from exports of goods and services effected before Janua ry 25, 1980, for which the foreign exchange had not yet been repatriated, the Central Bank would apply the rate in effect at the time of exportation; however, if such foreign exchange earnings were to be remitted to Turkey within one month in advance of the due date, a premium of LT 5.00 per US$1 would be paid. (These arrangements resulted in temporary effective rates to certain exporters of LT 47.10 per US$1 and LT 52.10 per US$1.) (4) For foreign exporters who chose the Turkish lira options for the settlement of their nonguaranteed overdue claims, a rate of LT47.10 would apply. (5) A rate of LT 55.00 per US$1 would apply to purchases of exchange for imports of fertilizers, inputs for fertilizer production, insecticides, and inputs for production of insecticides; the difference in local currency between the rate of LT 55.00 per US$1 and the official rate of LT 71.40 would be charged to a Price Stabilization 425 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY Fund (at the Central Bank) the resources of which would be derived from specific levies on exports of certain agricultural products expressed in Turkish lira per kilogram. January 25. The new import regime reduced advance import deposits for goods on liberalized list I f rom 25 per cent for industrialists and 40 per cent for other importers to 15 per cent and 30 per cent, respectively; for goods on liberalized list II, these deposits were reduced from 25 per cent and 40 per cent to 10 per cent and 20 per cent, respectively. Public sector imports also became subject to a 10 per cent advance import deposit requirement. Advance deposit requirements for imports subject to global quota were also reduced f rom 25 per cent to 10 per cent for industrialists and f rom 40 per cent to 20 per cent for other importers. Stamp du ty charged on imports was reduced f rom a maximum of 25 per cent to 1 per cent, and the new rate was made applicable to all imports from all countries except for luxury goods which will be subject to a 100 per cent stamp duty. Moreover, about 100 items were transferred from liberalized list II to liberalized list I. Simul- taneously, imports of raw materials which are directly related to the production of goods for exports and those imports which can be paid for from the importing firm's exporters' retention quota were exempted from custom tax. January 25. The payments system was liberalized by permitting the commercial banks to utilize 80 per cent of their foreign exchange receipts, compared with 37.5 per cent previously. May 6. To encourage exports and receipts f rom invisibles, the exporters' retention quota scheme was extended to exporters of fresh vegetables, fruits, and fish; they were permitted to retain 10 per cent of export receipts to meet foreign exchange expenses in produc- tion and marketing of their products; the scheme was also extended at a rate of 10 per cent to foreign exchange earnings of Turkish contractors. October 25. The new export regime for 1980/81 expanded the number of commodities subject to export licenses to 39 from 30 in 1979/80. Commodities which became subject to licensing included baryta ore, anti- mony ore, magnesite ore, flower bulbs, raw raisins, licorice root, electric light bulbs, armaments, and ammunition; on the other hand, export of wheat flour was deleted from the list of goods requiring licenses. The new regime granted the Soil Products Office the monopoly for the export of wheat. In addition, exporters of hazelnuts, cotton, seedless raisins, dried figs, and tobacco (all of which are subject to agricultural support purchases and constitute 40 per cent of total exports) were required to make prior registration with the Ministry of Commerce concerning the volume and price of intended exports. 426 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA (Position on December 31,1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Uganda is the Uganda Shilling, which is pegged to the SDR at U Sh 9.6600 = SDR 1. Uganda applies margins of not more than 1 per cent in terms of the fixed relationship between the Uganda shilling and the SDR. The Bank of Uganda does not deal in foreign currencies1 other than deutsche mark, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. The middle rate of the Uganda shilling for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is determined by the Bank of Uganda on the basis of the daily calculation of the U.S. dollar-SDR rate. On December 31, 1980 the official buying and selling rates were U Sh 7.56611 and U Sh 7.57320, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for deutsche mark and pounds sterling are determined on the basis of the appro- priate cross rates for the U.S. dollar in the New York market on the previous day. Authorized commercial banks in Uganda deal in all specified currencies2 and base their rates on the previous day's closing rates against the U.S. dollar in New York. Authorized banks may freely deal forward with customers in sterling, U.S. dollars, and other currencies, provided that there is an underlying approved import or export contract and that the term of the forward contract does not exceed three months; contracts for longer periods require exchange control approval. The Bank of Uganda charges a com- mission of 0.0625 per cent selling and 0.03125 per cent buying; authorized foreign exchange dealers impose a service charge of 1 per cent. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control The Bank of Uganda administers exchange control on behalf of the Minister of Finance. Import and export control is administered by the Ministry of Commerce. The Minister of Commerce has powers to prohibit imports and exports. Prescription of Currency The Bank of Uganda holds reciprocal accounts with the central banks of Kenya and Tanzania, which are settled in U.S. dollars. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Uganda to resi- dents of foreign countries other than Israel and South Afr ica may be made in Uganda shillings to the credit of an External Account in Uganda, or in any other currency that is appropriate to the country of residence of the payee. Receipts from such countries may be obtained in Uganda shillings from an External Account 1 Foreign currencies are all currencies other than the Uganda shilling. 2 Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, Danish and Faroese kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ne the r lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por tuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish k rone r, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and all currencies of the fo rmer Sterling Area other than the Uganda shilling. in Uganda or in any convertible currency. Payments to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Certain settle- ments with Burund i, Rwanda, and Zai're are channeled through special accounts. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Uganda shillings held by residents of foreign countries are designated External Accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments by residents of Uganda, with transfers f rom other External Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom sales of any foreign currency and gold by nonresidents of Uganda to authorized dealers. They may be debited freely for payments to nonresidents, for transfers to other External Accounts in Uganda, and for purchases of foreign currencies from authorized dealers. Non transferab le funds of persons not resident in Uganda are credited to Blocked Accounts maintained with commercial banks. Subject to prior approval, balances on Blocked Accounts may be used for the purchase in Uganda of specified bonds and shares issued in Uganda; the redemption proceeds of government bonds so acquired are transferab le beginning five years from the date of purchase. Subject to individual permis- sion, such balances may also be used for payments to residents not related to export transactions. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Israel and South A f r ica are pro- hibited. Imports are controlled through fore ign exchange allocations and import licensing. Imports are subject to import licenses issued by the Ugandan Advisory Board of Trade (UABT) under the Minister of Commerce. Imports norma l ly must be purchased directly from the country of origin. Documentary evidence showing that the goods have been imported into Uganda must be forwarded to the exchange control authorities within six months from the date of payment. There has been some accumulation of arrears on payments for imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries are subject to approval by the Bank of Uganda, and payments to Israel and South A f r ica are prohibited. No foreign exchange is provided for tourist travel. Expatriates working in Uganda may obtain allocations for travel outside East Africa at the time of their overseas leave, subject to the terms of the original contracts of service. Foreign exchange is not released for nursery, primary, and sec- ondary education abroad except for secondary technical education. Children of diplomats, technical assistance personnel, nonnationals work ing in Uganda on overseas terms, nonna t ional missionaries, and other special cases are exempted f rom these restrictions. Facilities exist 427 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA whereby salaried foreign nationals may remit to their country of origin up to one third of their gross monthly earnings, to cover family maintenance, savings, etc., provided that they are on a contract of employment which includes a firm commitment to leave Uganda upon expiry of the contract. Transfers of dividends and profits are subject to special regulations; thus, fore ign- owned companies must retain in Uganda at least 20 per cent of the profits made in any business year, and they are not allowed to remit interim dividends. Certain current payments are in arrears. The export of Uganda banknotes and coin by travelers is prohibited, except that travelers to Kenya and Tan- zania may take out U Sh 100 in Uganda currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Afr ica are prohibited. Exports require licenses from the UABT and may be restricted to ensure sufficient supplies for consumption in Uganda. The Uganda Tea Board has a monopoly over the export of tea, the Coffee Marketing Board over the export of coffee, and the Lint Marketing Board over the export of raw cotton. Export proceeds in specified currencies (see foot- note 2) must be collected within six months of exporta- tion and sold to an authorized bank for Uganda shillings. Coffee, cotton, copper, and hides and skins are subject to export duty. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 2) must be sold to an authorized bank. The import of Uganda banknotes and coin by travelers is prohibited, except that re turn ing residents may bring in U Sh 100 a person. Travelers may freely br ing in banknotes denominated in specified currencies and for- eign currency travelers checks. Capital Capital transfers to all countries are restricted and those to Israel and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Foreign assets must be deposited with an authorized depositary, except that residents of Uganda may be granted exemp- tion in respect of specified former Sterling Area assets held prior to June 11, 1965. Capital transfers require individual exchange control approval. Residents of Uganda leaving permanently may normally t rans fer their assets up to the equivalent of U Sh 50,000. A fu r th er transfer of up to the equiva- lent of U Sh 20,000 upon each anniversary of the emi- grant's departure is allowed. All remaining funds must be credited to a Blocked Account and may either be invested in certain approved securities or be held on deposit with commercial banks; such f u n ds become transferab le af ter five years. The income f rom such investments is transferab le dur ing the period when the funds are blocked. 428 Foreign investment is permitted in Uganda with or without government participation. Certain industries, such as public utilities, transportation, telecommunica- tions, shipping, and the marke t ing of key commodities, are wholly reserved for government ownership. In other key industries, such as textiles, brewing, animal feed manu fac tu re, the dairy industry, and tourism, the Government may pre-empt a certain percentage of the ownership but does accept private investment f rom both domestic and fore ign sources. To secure a guarantee of repatriation, it is necessary to obtain "approved status" for the investment in terms of the Foreign Investments (Protection) Act, 1964; in normal circumstances, approved status is given freely. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production requires approval under the Licensing Act of 1969. Dividends and profits due to nonresidents f rom normal trad ing operations and distributed by companies operating in Uganda are, in principle, transferable. All imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase by nonresi- dents of Ugandan securities, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remittable, and the proceeds on resale are normally remittable also. Purchases of securities outside Uganda by residents are not normally permitted. A resident of Uganda may not send money abroad, for whatever purpose, without specific exchange control approval. With minor exceptions, prior exchange con- trol approval is required for loans or overdraft facilities granted to a nonresident or to a body corporate resident in Uganda which is controlled, directly or indirectly, by persons resident outside Uganda. Gold A commemorative gold coin with a face value of U Sh 500 is legal tender but does not circulate. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Uganda for numis- matic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in Uganda in any form other than jewelry. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance. Export licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and indus- trial users. The import of the following f rom all sources is subject to ind iv idual licensing: jewelry of gold, silver, or platinum; goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares, including set gems; bullion in the ingot, bar, or sheet; and gold coin. Import licenses for gold bullion, gold jewelry, and gold coin are issued restrictively and only to gold- smiths. Changes during 1980 January 15. The Government decided to allocate foreign exchange at the rate of U Sh 10 million a month ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution to the private sector for consumer goods. January 29. The Minister of Commerce announced that a committee to issue import licenses and allocate foreign exchange was to be formed to aid the flow of imports into the country. April 15. Kenya, Sudan, Tanzania, and Uganda agreed to collaborate to promote trade and help Uganda reintegrate into regional affairs. April 17. Exchange and trade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe (formerly Rhodesia) were lifted. UGANDA 429 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES1 (Position on December 31, 2980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the United Arab Emirates is the U.A.E. Dirham, which is pegged to the SDR at Dh 4.76190 = SDR 1. The United Arab Emirates has established margins of 7.25 per cent around the official rate. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency, and the Central Bank publishes daily buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar only. On December 31, 1980 the official buying and selling rates were Dh 3.6690 and Dh 3.6730, respectively, per US$1. The Central Bank sets no limits on the amount of U.S. dollars that it is prepared to buy from or sell to any commercial bank. Commercial banks are free to en ter in to foreign exchange transactions at rates of their own choosing; the rates quoted by commercial banks for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are determined on the basis of international quotations. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There is a swap facility at the Central Bank which the commercial banks may use to purchase or sell dir- hams forward for periods of one week, one month, and three months. For each bank, max imum limits of US$20 million outstanding for one-month and three- mon th swaps and US$10 million ou ts tand ing for one- week swaps are in effect. There is also a l im it of US$3 million in purchases a day for each bank for one-month and three-month swaps. The United Arab Emirates fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, on February 13, 1974. Administration of Control There is neither exchange control legislation nor an exchange control au thor i ty in the United A rab Emirates, and there are no registration requirements for inward or outward transfers. Import and export licenses, where required, are issued by the authorities of the Emirate concerned. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South A f r ica are pro- hibited.2 No other prescription of currency require- ments are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. 1 The seven federated states of the United A rab Emirates are Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Sharjah, A jman, Umm al Qaiwain, Ras al Kha imah, and Fujairah. 2 In addition, all imports f rom and all exports to these countries are prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports of products manu fac tu red by fore ign com- panies blacklisted by the Arab League are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for health or security reasons. V i r tua l ly all other commodities may be freely imported w i thout an individual import permit, but only licensed parties can enter the import trade and an importer can import only the commodities specified in his license. There are no restrictions on the availability of fore ign exchange for payments in respect of permitted imports. Exports and Export Proceeds V ir tua l ly all commodities may be exported freely, without an export license, to any des t ina t ion. Each Emirate establishes its own export regulations. The proceeds from exports need not be repatriated or sur- rendered and may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All payments for current invisibles may be made freely. There are no requirements governing receipts. Travelers may take out and bring in any amount in foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital No exchange control requ iremen ts are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents. Profits on foreign capital invested in the United Arab Emirates may be remitted freely. Gold Residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad. They may also, w i thout a permit, import and export gold in any form, but the import of gold for trade purposes may be under taken only by licensed parties. Gold bullion is exempt from import d u ty but jewelry is not. Changes during 1980 January 8. The exchange rate of the U.A.E. d irham against the U.S. dollar was adjusted from Dh 3.7666 = US$1 to Dh 3.73 = US$1; subsequently there were five fur ther adjustments, and on December 22 the rate against the U.S. dollar was Dh 3.671 = US$1. May 6. Under the Jebel Ali Free Zone Ordinance No. 1 of 1980 a free zone was created at the port of Jebel Ali in Dubai. The law provided that goods cleared from the Jebel Ali Port would be exempted from customs duties when stored in the free zone. Mid-December. The Central Bank started operations, replacing the U.A.E. Currency Board. 430 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the United Kingdom is the Pound Sterling. The authorities of the United Kingdom do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and the exchange rate is determined largely by the bal- ance of market forces. Whether the rate is rising or falling, intervention by the authorities is limited to small- scale smoothing operations to moderate excessive fluc- tuations and preserve orderly markets. The closing selling and buying rates in the foreign exchange market for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1980 were US$2.3910 and US$2.3930, respectively, per <£!. Banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currency, and they may deal among themselves and with residents and non- residents in foreign notes and coin at free market rates of exchange. The United Kingdom formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Exchange controls have been abolished. The licensing of imports and exports is handled mostly by the Depart- ment of Trade, but other departments also issue licenses in specialized fields. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports may be made freely. For import licensing purposes countries outside the United Kingdom are divided into 12 groups: the ACP Area;1 the CEFTA Area ;2 the Community Area;3 the Dollar A rea ;4 the Far Eastern and Western Area;5 the Mediter- ranean Area;6 the OCT Area ;7 the German Democratic iThe ACP Area comprises Bahamas, Barbados, Benin, Botswana, Bu rund i, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Djibouti, Dominica, Equatorial Gu inea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, The Gamb ia, Ghana, G renada, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Kenya, Kiribati, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Maur i tan ia, Maur i t ius, N iger, Nigeria, Papua New Guinea, Rwanda, Sao Tom6 and Principe, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Somalia, St. Lucia, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, Upper Volta, Western Samoa, Zaire, and Zambia. 2 The CEFTA Area comprises Aus t r ia, Be lg ium, Denma rk, Finland, France, Federal Republic of Ge rmany and Berlin (Wes t ), Iceland, Republic of Ireland, Italy, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Ne ther lands, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, and Switzerland. 3 The Community Area comprises all EC member states. 4 The Dollar Area comprises Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Gua tema la, Haiti, Honduras, Liberia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippines, Un i ted States, and Venezuela. 5 The Far Eastern and Western Area comprises Aus tra l ia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, and United States. 6 The Mediterranean Area comprises Cyprus, Egyp t, Greece, Israel, Lebanon, Malta, Morocco, Spain, Tunisia, Tu rkey, and Yugoslavia. 7 The OCT Area comprises Belize, British Antarctic Territory, British Indian Ocean Territory, British Virgin Islands, B rune i, Cayman Islands, Falkland Islands and Dependencies, French Polynesia, French Southern and Antarctic Lands, Mayotte, Montserrat, Netherlands An- Republic and Berlin (East) and the U.S.S.R.; Romania; the State Trading A rea ;8 the Residual Textile Area;9 and all other countries. With the exception of certain textile goods,10 most imports are admitted under an Open General Import License w i thout restriction, with the following exceptions as at the end of 1980: ( 1) from all countries, two com- modities or groups of commodities;11 (2) from the Dollar Area only, one group of commodities; ( 3) from the Dollar Area, the Far Eastern and Western Area, the Residual Textile Area, and the State Trading Area, one commodity; (4) f rom Romania only, one group of commodities; (5) from the German Democratic Repub- lic and Berlin (Eas t) and the U.S.S.R. only, one group of commodities; and (6) f rom the State Trading Area only, seven commodities or groups of commodities. Individual import licenses are required where goods cannot be imported under the au tho r i ty of the Open General Import License; some items are subject to sur- veillance licensing under which import licenses are issued freely on demand to applicants prov id ing certain in fo rma t ion. Most articles subject to specific import licensing can be imported in limited quantities under bilateral or global quotas. A few articles may be imported under open ind iv idual licenses, i.e., without l im it as to quan t i ty or value. Imports of cereals and cereal products, beef and veal, mu t ton and lamb, pou l try meat, and dairy products other than bu t ter and cheese are subject to m in imum import prices enforced through autonomously imposed variable import levies. Imports of m any other agricultural, ho r t icu l tu ra l, and livestock produc ts are subject to EC regulations. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. Sterling banknotes may be dispatched to nonresidents against payment in sterling or in any fore ign currency. For any tilles (A ruba, Bonaire, Curasao, St. Eus ta t ius, St. Maa r ten, and Saba ), New Caledonia and Dependencies, P i tca irn, St. Helena and De- pendenc ies, St. P ierre and M ique lon, Tu rks and Caicos Is lands, V a n u a t u, Wallis and F u t u na Is lands, and West Ind ies Assoc ia ted S ta tes ( A n t i g ua and S t. Ch r i s toph e r -N ev i s -Angu i l l a ). 8 The State Trading Area comprises Albania, Bu lga r ia, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Ge rman Democra t ic Repub l ic and Ber l in (E a s t ), Hunga ry, Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Lao People's Democratic Repub l ic, Mongo l ia, Poland, Roman ia, U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. 9 The Re s idual Textile A rea comprises all c o u n t r i es and t e r r i to r i es other than A lger ia, A rgen t ina, Bangladesh, Bolivia, B raz i l, Colombia, El Salvador, Gua tema la, Haiti, Hong Kong, Ind ia, Indones ia, Iran, Jo rdan, Republic of Korea, Macao, Ma lays ia, Mexico, N i c a r a g u a, Pakistan, Pa raguay, Peru, Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syrian A rab Republic, Ta iwan, Tha i land, U r u g u a y, Z imbabwe, and those comprising the ACP Area, the CEFTA A rea, the Far Eas tern and Western Area, the Med i terranean Area, the OQT Area, and the State T rad ing Area. 10 The restrictions on textiles do not apply to coun tr ies in Western Europe, Aus t ra l ia, Canada, New Zea land, or the Un i ted States. 11 The skins of certain ra re animals, most p r im a ry wha le products, and a number of w i ld l ife produc ts, inc lud ing raw ivory, tortoiseshell, and p lumage, cannot be impo r ted w i thout an impo rt license issued by the appropr ia te depar tmen t. 431 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM type of travel U.K. residents can obtain on demand from banks and travel agents such foreign exchange as they may require without limitation. The cost of accom- modation, fares, etc., can be paid for without limit in the United Kingdom. Under arrangements agreed with certain banks, per- sonal checks may be cashed abroad up to <£ 50 a check, if backed by check cards. Credit cards may be used without restriction. Travelers may take out any amount in sterling or foreign currency notes. Residents may retain unused travel exchange expressed in foreign currency after return to the United Kingdom. Exports and Export Proceeds Virtually all exports are free of export control and there are no requirements affec t ing export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in foreign currencies on account of invisibles may be retained or may be sold for sterling. British and other banknotes may be brought into the Un i ted King- dom freely. Capital There are no restrictions on capital t rans fe rs by resi- dents of the United Kingdom into the beneficial owner- ship of residents of other countries. All proceeds f rom the realization, redemption, or ma tu r i ty of sterling capital assets (including direct inves tmen ts) are remit- table at the market rate of exchange. Residents of the United Kingdom who leave with the intention of residing abroad may t rans fer all their assets on departure from the United Kingdom. Repatriates who, having been resident in the United Kingdom, return to take up residence in any other coun try may transfer all their sterling assets abroad at the market rate of exchange. Investments, whether direct or portfolio, may be free ly made in the United K ingdom by nonresidents or abroad by residents. However, cases invo lv ing the takeover of existing U.K. companies that by their size or nature constitute a vital part of British indus try may be subject to consideration under the provisions of the Fair Trading Act of 1973. The Government also has powers under the Industry Act of 1975 to prevent or undo undesirable foreign takeovers of impo r tant manu- fac tu r ing undertakings, but these powers have never been used. There are no restrictions on transactions in sterling or foreign currency securities, which may be exported or imported, without fo rma l i ty. Warrants issued by registrars, company secretaries, and pay ing agents in respect of interest, dividends, and capital pay- ments on securities registered in the names of nonresi- dents may be dispatched abroad freely. Banks may freely accept foreign currency deposits and employ them in their foreign currency business or convert them to sterling.12 12 Following the abolition of exchange control, the Bank of Eng land asked the banks to ma in ta in control on the ir fo re ign courrency ex- posure; a more formal system of monitoring banks' open positions against agreed limits will be introduced du r ing 1981. 432 Gold Gold bu l l ion and gold coin are not subject to con trol in the Un i ted Kingdom. Gold sovereigns are legal tender but do not circulate. Gold coins have also been issued in Jersey and the Isle of Man which are legal tender there. Except under license granted by the Treasury, it is an offense to melt down or break up any metal coin which is for the t ime being current in the United Kingdom or which, having been cu r rent there, has at any t ime a f ter May 16, 1969 ceased to be so. The export of gold in m anu f a c tu r ed fo rm over 50 years old and valued at £8,000 and over for each item or matching set of items also requires a license f rom the Department of Trade. There is a free gold ma rket in London in wh ich gold bars are freely traded. The U.K. authorities do not intervene in the ma rket as either buyers or sellers. Changes during 1980 In add i t ion to the changes listed below, ce r ta in modi- fications were adopted w i th in the EC f ramewo rk, no tab ly in respect of imports of textiles. February 4. The Bank of Eng land ind ica ted that it would be prepared to coun tenance the issue of London certificates of deposit in currencies other than those already pe rm i t ted (s ter l ing and U.S. do l l a r s ). However, such issues wou ld only be approved a f ter discussion w i th the appropriate au tho r i t ies if the Bank was satisfied that a genuine ma rket in them was l ike ly to develop. February 18. With the permission of the EC Com- mission, sa fegua rds under Ar t ic le 19 of the GATT were invoked to in t roduce quo tas on impo r ts of polyester f i lament ya rn and ny lon carpet ya rn f rom the Un i ted States. April 1. The Gove rnment w i thd rew the a r rangemen ts under which the Export Credits Gua ran tee Depa r tment refinanced part of the banks' fixed in terest ra te s ter l ing export credit lending. On the same date, p r em i um rates were doubled f rom 25 pence to 50 pen~e per <£100 of the exporter's agreed borrow ing l im it for the compre- hensive bank guaran tee provided by the Export Credits Guaran tee Depa r tment for exports sold on open account terms. April 29. The M in is ter for Trade announced that the Export Credits Guaran tee Depar tment would no longer insist that exporters should finance large, specifically guaran teed overseas contracts in fore ign currencies, under the fixed rate export finance scheme. June 9. The M in is ter of Ag r icu l tu re announced a prohibition on impor ts of new potatoes f rom Spain and Greece. October 8. Certain amendments to export controls became effec t ive. Controls were l if ted on exports of cocoa products and several types of nonferrous waste and scrap metal outside the EC. Controls on exports of certain cryptographic and radio equipment to all destina- tions were modified, and controls were extended to elec- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution trical and electronic equipment incorporating certain adaptations to limit electromagnetic radiation. Controls were also extended to exports of certain a lum inum and steel alloys to all destinations. December 15. The Minister for Trade announced that the United Kingdom would not ask the EC to renew quotas on imports of polyester fibers and nylon carpet yarn from the United States. UNITED KINGDOM 433 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the United States in the U.S. Dollar. The U.S. authorities do not ma in ta in margins in respect of exchange transactions, and spot and forward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange markets. However, the authorities intervene when necessary to counter dis- orderly conditions in the exchange markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The United States fo rma l ly notified the Fund on December 10, 1946 that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control The Department of the Treasury deals with license applications involving f inanc ial or commercial trans- actions directly or indirectly w i th Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet Nam or their nationals, as specified under the Foreign Assets Control Regulations and the Cuban Assets Control Regulations. It also has administrative responsibility for blocked accounts of the above countries as well as accounts of Czechoslovakia, Estonia, the German Democratic Republic, Latvia, and Lithuania, blocked since World War II under the Foreign Funds Control Regulations, and accounts of the Iranian Gov- ernment and its instrumentalities blocked under the Iranian Assets Control Regulations of November 14, 1979, as modified by subsequent regulations.1 The Customs Service of the Treasury Department administers import quotas; such quotas, however, are frequently established and allocated by other agencies. Import quotas on specified dairy products are admin- istered by the Department of Agriculture through the issuance of import licenses. The global import quota on sugar was 6.9 million short tons annually, which is above normal imports of about 5 million tons. Alloca- tions and licenses for imports of crude petroleum and petroleum products are issued by the Department of Energy. For items subject to export control —other than crude petroleum and petroleum products —the Department of Commerce is, in general, the responsible authority. There are no restrictions on foreign payments, except those imposed for security reasons on transactions involving the authorities or nationals of Democratic 1 Restrictions on paymen ts to Iran, except for paymen ts from Iranian assets blocked as of Janua ry 19, 1981, were revoked on January 19, 1981, pu rsuant to an executive order signed by President Carter and to regulations issued thereunder. Iran ian assets blocked as of Janu- ary 19, 1981 are to be transferred to Iran or to var ious escrow accounts as set fo r th in the agreements between the United States and Iran. 434 Kampuchea, Iran,1 the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet Nam. Most current transactions involving the People's Republic of China are authorized, except those involving strategic goods. Payments to Cuba for support of relatives in Cuba, for purposes of cultural exchange, and for purposes of travel to and in the United States by Cuban nationals are permitted, as are payments to Viet Nam for purposes of support remittances to close relatives. Imports and Import Payments Imports originating in Iran ,2 Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet Nam are prohibited under Treasury regulations, unless specifically licensed. Import quotas are in effect for ( 1) cotton, certain cotton waste and products, most da iry products, and peanuts; (2) certain fish and certain potatoes ( ta r i f f- rate quo tas ); and ( 3) sugar (non res t r ic t ive ). Moreover, quotas may be imposed by the President under specified conditions on certain types of meat. Among the quanti- tative import quotas, all except those for peanuts, cotton and certain cotton products, butter oil, and sugar are on a coun try-of-produc t ion basis. In addition, imports of crude petroleum and petroleum products are subject to an import entitlement program and import license fees. Certain da iry products that are subject to quotas are also subject to import licensing. The United States is a party to the GATT Multifiber Arrangement (MFA) and to 23 bilateral textile agree- ments negotiated in accordance with the Arrangement's provisions. These agreements restrict trad ing partners' exports of textiles and apparel to the United States. In 1980 the United States renegotiated agreements w i th four exporting countries (Malaysia, Poland, Romania, and Yugoslavia) and negotiated new agreements with the People's Republic of China, Costa Rica, and Sri Lanka. The agreements provide for orderly expansion of trade w i thout disrupting U.S. marke ts for textile and apparel products. As of the end of 1980, no limitations were applied to imports of crude petroleum and petro- leum products (except those f rom Iran which were pro- h ib i ted) ,2 but these were generally subject to import licenses and a goal that net impor ts into the 50 states should not exceed an annual rate of 8.2 m i l l ion barrels a day. Imports of a number of manu fac tu red products are also effectively restricted by bilateral agreements or by the mu l t i la teral procedures of GATT Article XIX designed to provide temporary relief to certain distressed industries (e.g., clothespins, shoes, and color televisions). 2 The prohibition on imports of Iran ian origin was revoked by Executive Order No. 12282, signed by President Carter on January 19, 1981. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and Export Proceeds Mun i t ions may be exported only under license issued by the Office of Mun i t ions Control in the Department of State. Licenses are not granted for exports of arms and ammunition to the People's Republic of Ch ina, Cuba, Eastern Europe, Democratic Kampuchea, the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea, South A f r ica, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. Licenses are required for exports of crime control and detection equ ipment to all countries except other members of the No r th A t lan t ic Treaty Organization (NATO ), Aus tra l ia, Japan, and New Zealand. The Depar tment of Commerce adm in- isters controls on exports d irec t ly f rom the Un i ted States and on re-exports of goods of U.S. or ig in f r om any area. (The Treasury Depar tment adm in is ters controls on exports to certain areas of goods of fo re ign origin by fore ign firms that are owned or controlled by U.S. na t iona ls .) All exports to Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, I ran ,3 the Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea, and Viet Nam (except phonog raph records, publications, and, to Cuba, l im i ted g i ft parcels) are prohibited unless indi- v i d u a l ly licensed. Exports of designated strategic ma te r ia ls and equipment to all other coun t r ies (except C an ad a) also requ ire i n d i v i d u al validated licenses. For many commodities, when exported to countries other than members of the Counc il for Mu tual Economic Assistance (CMEA ), ce r ta in A r ab states, Cuba, Demo- cratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea, and Viet Nam, s ing le d is t r ibu t ion licenses may be obtained to cover a f u ll year's sh ipmen t. The licens- ing requirements applicable to Hunga ry, Po land, Roman ia, and Yugoslavia are less restrictive than those app l icab le to other Eastern European coun t r ies. Under the au thor i ty of the Export Adm in is t ra t ion Act of 1979, the President can suspend the export of goods for reasons of n a t i o n al security, fo re ign policy, or short supply in the domestic economy, a l though every e f fo rt is made to make spa r ing use of such au thor i ty. D u r i ng 1980, however, restrictions were placed on exports of g ra in, soybean, and related produc ts, and certain other foods to the U.S.S.R. For agr icu l tural commodities, such as wheat, corn, so rghum, soybean, and soybean o i l, expo r t ing compan ies pa r t ic ipa te in a vo lun t a ry repo r t ing system that is designed to improve ma rket in fo rm a t ion and to a l low for more orderly expo r t ing and, thereby, lessen sub s tan t ia l ly the need for government in te rven t ion. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange con tro l. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely, except for paymen ts to or for the account of the au thor- ities, i n s t r um e n t a l i t i es or con tro l led en t i t ies of, or to I ran (see foo tno te 1) and the au tho r i t ies or na t iona ls 3 P roh ib i t ions on expor ts to I r an were revoked by Ex e cu t ive O rder No. 12282, signed by President C a r t er on J a n u a ry 19, 1981. UNITED STATES of Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea, and Viet Nam, which are permitted only under license. U.S. residents are allowed to remit up to US$500 a quar ter to close relatives in Cuba and US$300 a qua r ter to close relatives in Viet Nam. In addition, remittances of up to US$500 to Cuba and US$750 to Viet Nam are allowed to aid in a rela- tive's em ig ra t ion f rom those coun tr ies, and specific licenses are ava i lab le for certain t ran sac t ions in connec- tion with c u l t u r al exchanges between the Un i ted States and Cuba. Receipts f rom Cuba, Democratic Kampu- chea, the Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea, and Viet Nam are proh ib i ted, except for travel receipts f rom Cuban nationals v i s i t i ng the Un i ted States. Ind iv idua ls leaving or en t e r ing the coun t ry w i th more than US$5,000 in domestic or fo r e ign currency, travelers checks, money orders, a n d / or bearer-form negotiable securities must declare these to the cus toms at the po int of exit or en t ry. Capital Incom ing or ou tgo ing cap i tal p aym en ts by residents or nonres iden ts are not subject to exchange control. In addition, inw a rd and ou twa rd direct or po r t fo l io inves t- ment is gene ra l ly free of any other f o rm of app roval requ iremen t. Inves tmen ts invo lv ing ownersh ip in terest in banks are sub ject to federal and state b ank ing regu la t ions. However, as noted above, there are restric- tions on c e r t a in t r an s a c t ions w i th, or invo lv ing, Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democra t ic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet N am. In add i t ion, there a re cer ta in repo r t ing r e q u i r em e n ts for trave lers en t e r ing or leaving the coun t ry when they are c a r r y i ng more than US$5,000 in cash or negotiable in s t rum en ts (as well as co r respond ing repo r t ing r equ i r em en ts for ship- ment of cu r r en cy or bearer assets through the m a i l s ). Certain paymen ts and t ran s fe rs to the Gove rnment of I ran, i ts i n s t r um e n t a l i t i e s, and controlled en t i t ies, and to any persons in I r an (see foo tno te 1) are also pro- hibited. In add i t ion, ownersh ip of U.S. f a rm l a nd by fo re ign na t iona ls mu st be registered w i th the Federal Governmen t. Member banks are d iscouraged by the Federal Reserve Board f rom s o l i c i t i ng or encou rag ing placement of deposits by U.S. res iden ts at the ir fo r e ign branches, unless such deposits are placed to serve a de f in i te, neces- sary pu rpose outside the Un i ted States. The fo re ign currency po s i t ions of bank s, whe ther overall or with respect to i n d i v i d u al cu r renc ies, are not subject to regu- lations or r egu l a to ry l im i t a t i o n. U.S. agencies and branches of fo re ign b anks as well as domestic banks are subject to Federal Reserve requ i remen ts. Gold U.S. c i t izens or res iden ts may f r e e ly pu rchase, hold, and sell gold in any f o rm, at home or abroad, except for certain gold t ran sac t ions (e.g., impo r ts or exports) invo lv ing Cuba, Democ ra t ic Kampuchea, the Demo- cratic People's Repub l ic of Korea, Viet Nam, and I ran 435 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES (see footnotes 2 and 3 ). Commercial banks may deal in gold bullion and gold coin, w i th the same exceptions. Treasury licensing for importers, exporters, producers, refiners, and processors of gold is not required, w i th the same coun t ry exceptions. Producers of gold may sell their output in the free market, w i th the same coun try exceptions. Gold may be free ly imported except f rom the countries mentioned above and except coun terfe it gold coins. U.S. gold coins are legal tender at their face value. Commercial imports of gold jewelry are f ree of quan t i ta t ive restriction but are subject to import du ty at a rate of approximately 12 per cent. There is no du ty on gold ore, bu l l ion, or coin. All fo rms of gold must be declared at the po int of e n t ry in to the Un i ted States. Changes during 1980 January 4. The Pres ident announced his i n t e n t i on to impose new restrictions on exports to the U.S.S.R. of agr icu l tural commodities and of high-technology and other strategic items. January 7. The President directed the Depar tment of Commerce to te rm ina te shipments of ce r ta in ag r icu l tu ral products, i n c l u d i ng wheat and corn, to the U.S.S.R.; export licenses were g ran ted, however, to the ex tent necessary to pe rm it sh ipmen ts up to the level of the 1975 agreement between the Un i t ed States and the U.S.S.R. January 11. The President d irec ted the Depa r tment of Commerce to suspend all o u t s t a n d i ng licenses for exports of high-technology p roduc ts to the U.S.S.R. January 17. A fou r -year ta r i ff increase on porce la in- on-steel cookware went in to effect und er Section 201 of the Trade Act of 1974. The In t e rn a t ion al Trade Com- mission (ITC) of the Un i ted States had found that increas ing impor ts were caus ing i n j u ry to the domestic indus try. January 17. The U n i t ed States and Mexico signed an agreement gua ran tee ing Mexico specific qu an t i t i es of cer ta in ag r icu l tu ral commod i t ies to t a l ing at least 4.8 m i l l ion me tr ic tons that it requ i red f rom the Un i t ed States d u r i ng calendar year 1980. January 18. The President a n n o u n c ed eme rgency relief f rom impo r ts of anhyd rous ammon ia f rom the U.S.S.R., in the f o rm of a quo ta of 1 m i l l i on short tons for a period of one year. He also asked the ITC to inves t iga te whe ther impo r ts f rom the U.S.S.R. were d i s r u p t i ng the U.S. m a rk e t. January 24. The ITC recommended increases in impo rt d u t i es on ce r ta in leather ga rmen ts for th ree years f o l l ow i ng a f i n d i ng of i n j u ry to a domestic i n d u s t r y. (On March 26 the P res ident rejected the ITC recom- menda t ion and called for expedited ad ju s tm ent assist- ance.) January 25. Congress approved a reso lu t ion g r a n t i ng the People's R epub l ic of Ch ina mos t - favo red -na t ion status. 436 January 31. The Treasury Depar tment announced that blocked accounts w i th the People's Republic of Ch ina were unb locked in accordance w i th an agreement se t t l ing ou t s t and ing claims between the two countries. February 1. A bilateral trade agreement w i th the People's Repub l ic of China came in to force. February 1. The specific du ty on imports of refined sugar (wh ich is imposed on top of a variable impo rt fee) was reduced f rom U.S. cents 1.9875 per pound to U.S. cents 0.625 per pound in response to r is ing world market sugar prices. February 4. The Depa r tment of Commerce issued regu la t ions p lac ing a ll phosphate f e r t i l i z er ma ter ia ls under va l ida ted license requ i remen ts and suspended the issuance of any export licenses for these commodities when in tended for the U.S.S.R. March 15. The President imposed a gaso l ine conser- vation fee of US$4.62 per barrel of impor ted crude oil and US$4.20 per ba r rel of impo r ted gasoline. (The collection of the fee was blocked in the cour ts and in early J u ne the fee was repealed as a consequence of a Congressional re so lu t ion re sc ind ing the President's au tho r i ty to impose i t .) March 21. The tr igger pr ice mechan ism ( in t roduced in 1978 by the T reasu ry D ep a r tm en t) was suspended fo l low ing the f i l ing of n um e r o us a n t i d um p i ng comp la in ts aga inst EC s tee lmake r s. (The trigger price mechanism allows the D e p a r tm e nt of Commerce to i n i t i a te an t i- d um p i ng inve s t iga t ions when im p o r ts are priced below the ir tr igger prices.) In October the Pres ident announ c ed that the D ep a r tm ent of Commerce was r e i n t r o d u c i ng the mechan ism f o l l ow i ng the w i thd r aw al of the d um p i ng comp l a in ts and was m o d i f y i ng it by a d d i ng a mechanism to detect impo rt surges and by s t r e n g t h e n i ng the pro- cedures for m o n i t o r i ng prices. March 25. The ITC ru led that impor ts of anhyd rous ammon ia f r om the U.S.S.R. were not caus ing i n j u ry to the U.S. m a rk e t. The emergency quo ta in t roduced for th is p rodu ct on J a n u a ry 18, 1980 was t e rm i n a t e d. March 27. A GATT panel was es tab l ished to review a c la im by the Assoc ia t ion of Tobacco M a n u f a c t u r e rs of u n f a ir t r a d i ng practices by Japan. In November 1980 the Un i ted States agreed to w i t h d r aw its GATT case, and the GATT panel was suspended upon imp lemen ta- tion of an ag reement w i th J ap an on m a n u f a c t u r ed tobacco p roduc ts. April 2. Congress passed the im p l em e n t i ng legisla- t ion for the I n t e r n a t i o n al Sugar Ag reemen t. April 4. The D ep a r tm ent of Commerce imposed coun t e rv a i l ing du t ies on a case-by-case basis on impo r ts of pig iron f r om B raz i l. April 7. All exports to I ran we re p roh ib i ted, except food, m ed i c in e s, and med ical supp l ies (see foo tno te 3 ). April 8. The Depa r tment of Commerce imposed d um p i ng du t i es of 48 per cent on impo r ts of plied worsted spun acry l ic mach ine kn i tw e ar f rom I ta ly. April 8. The Department of Commerce imposed ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution dump ing duties on a case-by-case basis on imports of spun acrylic yarn f rom Japan. April 9. The Treasury Depar tment in i t ia ted a census of all blocked Iranian assets and of all U.S. claims against Iran. April 9. The Department of Commerce imposed dump ing duties on a case-by-case basis on refined sugar imports f rom Canada. April 17. All imports f rom Iran were suspended, and payments to persons in Iran, whether governmental or private, were prohibited, except as licensed by the Treasury Department (see also footnotes 1 and 2 ). April 22. The Department of Commerce imposed dump ing duties on a case-by-case basis on imports of portable electric typewriters f rom Japan. May 2. The Treasury Depar tment issued amendmen ts to the Iran ian Assets Control Regu la t ions c l a r i fy ing that the export of technical data to Iran was prohibited by the export sanctions, and that the export of componen ts of U.S. origin for foreign-made goods to be sold to Iran was also proh ib i ted (see foo tno te 3 ). May 9. Following an a f f i rma t ive de term ina t ion of i n j u r y, the Department of Commerce issued a fo rmal f ind ing that portable electric typewriters were being dumped by Japan. May 23. The Department of Commerce announced that imports of steel wire na i ls f rom Korea were being sold at less than f a ir ma rket va lue. July 2. The Depar tment of Commerce imposed coun te rva i l ing duties of 18 per cent on the f.o.b. value of each shipment of indu s t r i al fas teners f rom Ind ia. August 21. A ta r i ff increase f rom 4 per cent to 25 per cent on cab chassis for lightweight p ickup trucks went in to effect fo l low ing a Customs Service reclassifica- t ion. The reclassification affected p r inc ipa l ly impor ts of l igh twe ight p ickup t rucks f rom Japan (va lued at over US$1 b i l l ion a n n u a l l y ), but the reclassification review left open the possibility of case-by-case review for impor ts f rom other sources. September 4. The Depa r tment of Commerce imposed coun t e rv a i l ing du t ies of 2.02 per cent of the f.o.b. va lue of each sh ipment of fresh-cut roses f rom Israel, fo l low ing findings that these exports were be ing subsidized and were causing material in ju ry. September 4. The Treasury Depar tment removed an embargo on Canad ian t u na and tuna products. September 25. The U.S. Trade Representative announ c ed that the requ i remen ts of the Buy Amer ican Act for agencies of the U.S. Government would be UNITED STATES waived as regards the p rocu rement of civil a i rc ra ft and related articles. October 16. The Treasury Depar tment imposed coun- tervailing duties on a case-by-case basis on imports of certain iron metal castings from India. October 21. The United States signed a four-year grain sales agreement with the People's Republic of China. November 1. All banks opera t ing in the Un i ted States, fore ign as well as domestic, became subject to Federal Reserve requ iremen ts. November 1. The President increased duties on imported, prepared, or preserved mushrooms for a period of three years a f t er the ITC found that impor ts were caus ing i n j u ry to domestic indus try. November 13. The Federal Reserve Board's regula- tions imp lemen t ing the reserve requ i rement prov is ions of the Monetary Control Act of 1980 became effec t ive. Under th is Act and the In t e rn a t ion al Bank ing Act, a ll depository in s t i tu t ions organized under U.S. law and U.S. agencies and branches of fore ign banks became subject to reserve requ iremen ts under a phased-in schedule. November 19. The Federal Reserve Board asked for public comment on a proposal to establish in t e rn a t ion al bank ing fac i l i t ies in the Un i ted States that could make loans to and accept deposits from non-U.S. residents w i thout be ing sub ject to reserve requ i remen ts and interest rate l im i ta t ions. November 21. The -State Depa r tment ordered an embargo on impor ts of Uina f rom Ecuador fo l low ing the seizure of U.S. fishing boats. November 24. The President signed a proc lama t ion increasing the u p l a nd cotton impo rt quota by 497,154 bales. This special quota was in add i t ion to the no rmal annual up land cotton quota of about 30,000 bales. December 3. The Un i ted States and Mexico signed an agreement for the supp ly of ag r icu l tu ral products that provided for the purchase by Mexico of at least 6 m i l- lion metric tons of U.S. a g r i c u l t u r al commod i t ies in the ca lendar year 1981. December 4. The U.S. Trade Rep resen ta t ive estab- lished a t empo r a ry add i t ional impo rt quo ta for peanu ts of 200 m i l l ion pounds in order to relieve supp ly shortages owing to a poor peanut crop in 1980. December 5. Congress passed leg is la t ion increas ing the tar iff on ethyl alcohol used as a fuel by 10 cents per ga l lon in 1981, 20 cents per ga l lon in 1982, and 40 cents per gallon in 1983. 437 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Upper Volta is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French f ranc, the in t e rv en t ion currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The off ic ial buy ing and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived f r om the rate for the currency concerned in the Pa r is exchange ma rket and the f ixed ra te between the F rench f r anc and the CFA f r a n c. The BCEAO levies a com- m iss ion of 0.10 per m i ll for t r an s f e rs f rom coun t r ies outside the West A f r i c an Mone ta ry U n i on and one of 2.50 per m i ll for t r a n s f e rs to such coun t r i e s .2 B a n ks levy a comm iss ion of 2.50 per m i ll on t r a n s f e rs to all coun t r ies outside the West A f r i c an Mone ta ry U n i o n, pa rt of which must be su r rende red to the T rea su ry. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures re la t ing to gold, Upper Volta's exchange controls do not app ly to ( 1) France (and i ts Overseas Depa r tmen ts and T e r r i t o r i e s) and Monaco; and (2) a ll other coun t r ies whose b a nk of issue is l inked w i th the French Treasury by an Ope ra- tions Account (B en in, Cameroon, the Cen tral A f r i c an Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivo ry Coast, Ma l i, Niger, Senegal, and Togo ). Hence, all pay- men ts to these coun tr ies may be made f r e e ly. A ll o ther coun t r i es a re considered fo r e ign coun t r ies. Administration of Control Exchange control is adm in is te red by the D i rec to ra te of the T reasu ry and In t e rn a t ion al F in an c i al A f f a i rs in the D i rec to ra te -Gene ral of the Treasury and of P u b l ic Accounts in the M i n i s t ry of F inance. The app rov al au tho r i ty in respect of exchange con t rol (except for impor ts and exports of gold, f o rw a rd exchange cover, and business t ravel allocations in excess of CFAF 400,000) has been delegated to the BCEAO a n d, w i th in limits specified in the exchange con trol regu la- t ions, to au tho r ized in te rmed ia r ies. The BCEAO a lso is au thor ized to collect, either d i rec t ly or th rough b ank s, f inanc ial in s t i tu t ion s, the Postal Adm in i s t r a t ion, and notaries public, any i n f o rm a t i on necessary to comp i le balance of paymen ts statistics. All exchange t r an s a c t ions re la t ing to fo re ign countries mu st be effec ted th rough authorized banks, the Postal A dm i n i s t r a t i o n, or the BCEAO. Import and export licenses are issued by the D irec tora te-General of Commerce and Prices in the M in is t ry of Commerce, Indus t r ial Deve lopmen t, and Mines. Import cer t if ica tes for l ibera l ized commod i t ies and export a t tes ta t ions are made out by the impo r ter 1 The CFA f r a nc is issued by the Banque C e n t r a le des E ta ts de I 'A f r i q ue de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common c u r r e n cy in Ben in, Ivory Coast, N ig e r, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta. - T rans fe rs between member coun t r ies of the Un ion are sub ject to a flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on se t t lemen ts between agenc ies of the BCEAO. 438 or exporter h imse lf and, when se t t lement takes place w i th a c o u n t ry ou ts ide the French Franc A rea, are visaed by the customs a dm i n i s t r a t i o n. Prescription of Currency Since Upper Vo l ta is an O p e r a t i o ns A c count c o u n t r y, se t t lemen ts w i th F rance (as d e f in ed a b o v e ), Monaco, and the Ope ra t ions A c c o u nt c o u n t r i es a re made in CFA f ranc s, French f r a n c s, or the c u r r e n cy of any O p e r a t i o ns Account c o u n t r y. C u r r e nt t r a n s a c t i o ns w i th The Gam- bia, G h a n a, G u i n e a, Gu in e a -B i s s au, L ibe r ia, M a u r i t a n i a, N ige r ia, and S ie r ra Leone a re n o rm a l ly se t t led t h r o u gh the West A f r i c an C l e a r i ng House. C e r t a in s e t t l em e n ts w i th the People's R epub l ic of C h i n a, the Fede ral R e p u b- l ic of G e rm a n y, and G h a na a re c h a n n e l ed t h r o u gh special accoun ts. Se t t lemen ts w i th a ll o ther c o u n t r i es a re u s u a l ly e f f e c t ed e i th er t h r o u gh co r re spondent b a n ks in France, or the c o u n t ry conce rned, in any of the cu r renc ies of those c o u n t r i e s, or in F r en ch f r a n cs (or in o ther cu r r en c i es of the F rench F r anc A r e a) t h r o u gh Foreign A c coun ts in F rancs. A ll s e t t l em e n ts w i th Sou th A f r i ca a re p r o h i b i t e d. Nonresident Accounts The r e g u l a t i o ns p e r t a i n i ng to n o n r e s i d e nt a c c o u n ts a re based on those a p p l i ed in F rance. BCEAO b a n k n o t es may be c r ed i t ed to Fo re ign A c c o u n ts in F rancs wh en they have been m a i l ed to the BCEAO agency in Ou ag adougou by an au tho r i z ed b a n k 's f o r e i gn co r re- spond en t. O the rw i se, the c r e d i t i ng to n o n r e s i d e nt accoun ts of BCEAO b a n k n o t e s, F rench b a n k n o t e s, or b a n k n o t es issued by any o th er i n s t i t u te of i s sue t h at m a i n t a i ns an Op e r a t ions A c c o u nt is p r o h i b i t e d. For- e ign A c c o u n ts in F r an cs may be d eb i t ed, w i t h o ut p r ior a u t h o r i z a t i o n, w i th the v a lue of BCEAO b a n k n o t es mailed d i r e c t ly by a u t h o r i z ed i n t e rm e d i a r i es to t h e ir f o r e i gn co r r e spond en t s. Imports and Import Payments Impo r ts o r i g i n a t i ng in or p roceed ing f r om Sou th A f r i ca a re p r o h i b i t e d. Impo r ts f r om coun t r i es in the French F ranc A rea may in p r i n c i p le be made f r e e l y, a l though, ex c ep t ion a l ly, spec ial r e g u l a t i o ns may be issued. Im p o r ts sh ipp ed f r om and o r i g i n a t i ng in EC coun t r ie s, w i th m i n or excep t ion s, a re l i b e r a l i z ed and requ i re on ly an impo rt c e r t i f i c a t e. Most im p o r ts f r om other c o u n t r i es a re sub ject to l i c en s ing. Im p o r ts f r om non-EC coun t r i es ou t s ide the French F ranc A r ea a re adm i t ted in acco rdance w i th an a n n u al im p o rt p r o g r am, de te rm ined each year by the D i r e c to r a t e -G en e r al of Commerce and Prices. Under th is p r o g r am, g lobal quotas a re es tab l ished for spec if ied commod i t i es and these r equ i re im p o rt licenses. Impo r ts f rom G h a na a re sub ject to spec ial regu la t ion s. Most impo r ts are sub ject to a customs s t amp tax of 6 per cent, an impo rt sur- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution charge of 6 per cent, and a statistical du ty of 3 per cent. All import transactions re la t ing to fore ign countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank when the ir value exceeds CFAF 500,000. Import licenses or impo rt certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange but at the earliest eight days be fo re sh ipmen t, if a documen tary credit is opened, or eight days before payment is due, if the commodities have already been imported, or at the time of the payment on account, if such a payment has to be made prior to the impor t. Payments for Invisibles All payments to South A f r ica are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to France (as defined abov e ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- mitted f ree ly; those to other countries are sub ject to exchange control approva l, which for many invisibles has been delegated to the au thor ized banks. Authorized banks and the Postal Adm in i s t ra t ion are empowered to make payments to fore ign countries, on beha lf of resi- dents, up to CFAF 50,000 a t ran s fe r. Paymen ts for invisibles related to trade are permitted free ly when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require au thor iza t ion. T rans fe rs of income acc ru ing to nonresidents in the fo rm of p ro f i ts, d iv idends, and royalties are also permitted. Residents traveling for tou r ism to countries other than France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Opera t ions Account countries may purchase exchange equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a t r ip (CFAF 87,500 for chil- dren under t e n) for any number of t r ips a year; any fo re ign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 rema in ing a f t er re tu rn to Upper Volta must be su r rende red. The basic allocation for travel abroad for business purposes is the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, w i th a maxi- mum of CFAF 400,000 a tr ip. Resident travelers to fore ign countries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bankno tes, French bankno tes, and bankno tes of other Operations Account countries. Resident travelers to other coun tr ies of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bankno tes, but if proceeding to a coun t ry that is not a member of the West A f r ican Monetary Union, they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident trave lers may f ree ly take out fo re ign bankno tes up to the equ iva lent of CFAF 175,000 or any larger amoun t, if declared upon en t ry or acqu ired by d raw ing on a Foreign Account in Francs, or an Account in Foreign Currency, or by exchange of fo r- eign travelers checks, etc. They may also take out any foreign means of payment other than bankno tes acquired in Upper Volta by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs or an Account in Foreign Currency, sub ject to submis- sion of documen ta t ion. Finally, they may take out f ree ly up to CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and bankno tes of Operations Account coun- tries. UPPER VOLTA Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to coun tr ies of the French F ranc A rea may be made f ree ly but for s ta t is t ical purposes c e r t a in agr i- c u l t u r al p roduc ts requ ire a license f r om the D i rec to ra te- General of Commerce and Prices. Expo r ts to South A f r ica are proh ib i ted. Exports to all o ther coun tr ies are pe rm i t ted free ly but some requ i re a license. C e r t a in commodities can be exported in special c ircums tances only. Expor ts to Ghana are sub ject to special regu la- tions. Expo rt proceeds must be su r r end e r ed w i t h in one mon th of the date on wh ich the payment f a l ls due ( the due da te s t ipu la ted in the comme rc ial con t r a c t, wh ich must no t, in p r inc ip le, be la ter t h an 180 days a f t er a r r ival of the goods at th e ir d e s t i n a t i o n ). A ll expo rt t ran sac t ions r e l a t ing to fo re ign coun t r i e s, i n c l u d i ng coun tr ies in the French Franc A r e a, must be dom ic i led w i th an au tho r ized b a nk when t h e ir v a lue exceeds CFAF 500,000, and the expo r ter m u st sign a f o r e i gn exchange c omm i tm e nt and subm it a cus toms ce r t i f ica- t ion. Most expo r ts are sub ject to a cu s toms s t amp tax of 6 per cent and a statistical du ty of 3 per cent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f r om t r an s a c t ions in inv i s ib l es w i th F rance (as defined above ), Monaco, and the O p e r a t i o ns Account coun t r ies may be r e t a in ed. A ll am o u n ts due f rom res iden ts of o ther coun t r i es in respect of se rv ices and a ll income earned in those coun t r i es f r om f o r e i gn assets must be collected and su r rende red w i th in two mon ths of the due date. Such proceeds and e a r n i n gs may not be received in or f r om South A f r i c a. R e s id ent and non res ident trave lers may b r i ng in any amount of bankno tes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the B a nk of France, or any bank of issue m a i n t a i n i ng an Ope ra- t ions Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any am o u nt of fo r e ign bankno tes and coin (except gold co in) of coun t r i es outside the French F ranc A r e a. Resi- dent t rave le rs must declare to the cus toms any fo r e ign means of payment in excess of CFAF 5,000 t h at they br ing in and must su r render these to an a u t h o r i z ed b a nk w i th in eight days a f t er r e tu rn. Capital A ll cap i tal movemen ts between Upper Vo l ta and South A f r ica are p roh ib i ted. Cap i tal movemen ts between Upper Volta and France (as def ined a b o v e ), Monaco, and the Ope ra t ions Account coun t r i es a re f ree of exchange con t ro l; cap i tal t r an s f e rs to a ll o ther coun- tries requ i re exchange con t rol app roval and are restricted, but cap i tal receipts f r om such coun t r i es a re permitted f ree ly. Special con t ro ls ( add i t ion al to any exchange con t rol requ i remen ts that may be app l i c ab l e) are m a i n t a i n ed over borrow ing ab road, over inw a rd direct inves tment and a ll ou twa rd i n v e s tm e n t, and over the issuing, adve r t is ing, or o f f e r ing for sale of fo r e ign securities in Upper Volta. Such ope ra t ions requ i re p r ior au tho r iza t ion by the M in i s ter of Finance. Ex empt f rom authorization, however, are operations in connection 439 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA with ( 1) loans backed by a guarantee f rom the Upper Volta Government and (2) shares that are similar to or may be substituted for securities whose issue, adver- tising, or sale in Upper Volta has already been author- ized. With the exception of controls over foreign secu- rities, these measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the West Afr ican Monetary Union, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and fore ign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries. All the special provisions described in this para- graph apply only to transactions and not to the asso- ciated payments or collections. All investments abroad by residents of Upper Volta require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance.3 Foreign direct investments in Upper Volta4 must be declared to the Minister of Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration dur ing which he may request postponement of the project. The full or partial liquida- tion of either type of investment also requires prior declaration to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Upper Voltan investments abroad or foreign investments in Upper Volta, must be reported to the Minister of Finance and the BCEAO within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments constitute investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, pro- vided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Foreign firms operating in Upper Volta are required to have Upper Voltan participation in their capital of at least 51 per cent in vital or priority sectors and up to at least 35 per cent in all others. The sale to residents of Upper Volta of securities of foreign com- panies operating in Upper Volta requires prior author- ization by the Minister of Finance, who establishes the sale value. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) 3 Including those made through foreign companies that are d irec t ly or indirectly controlled by persons in Upper Volta and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Upper Volta. 4 Including those made by companies in Upper Volta that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Upper Volta of fore ign companies. 440 loans taken up by industrial firms to finance transac- tions abroad, by any type of firm to finance imports into or exports from Upper Volta, or by international trading houses previously approved by the Minister of Finance to finance international merchanting transac- tions; ( 3) loans contracted by authorized banks; (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 100 million for any one borrower, provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate and that the proceeds are immediately surrendered by the sale of foreign currency on the exchange market or debited to a Foreign Account in Francs. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the Minister if the loan itself was sub- ject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt f rom special authorization. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization by the BCEAO, acting on behalf of the Minister of Finance. The Investment Code provides preferential treatment for foreign investment in Upper Volta. Two preferential categories (A and B) are established, in accordance with which preferential treatment with respect to stable rates of taxes, duties, and other fiscal charges may be accorded to specified enterprises for periods of up to 20 years. The benefits under Category B are more liberal than those under Category A; they are negotiable between the investor and the Government, and the enterprise accorded such benefits must be of exceptional importance to the development of the country. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Upper Volta. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Directorate of the Treasury and International Financial Affa irs. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declara- tion. Changes during 1980 May 16. Central Bank Circular No. 24 was issued, applying the regulations on the domiciliation of exports and the repatriation of export proceeds uniformly to all foreign countries, including countries of the French Franc Area; simultaneously, the period for the sur- render of export proceeds was reduced from two months to one month of the due date of payment. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Uruguay is the Uruguayan New Peso. Until October 1978 Uruguay maintained a dual exchange market —the commercial market and the f inan- cial market —but the two markets were unified de facto in October 1978 when the Central Bank announced that it stood ready to buy and sell any amount of exchange at rates to be adjusted in variable amounts at frequent intervals. The Central Bank indicated the rate of depre- ciation for the following three months; in subsequent announcements, the daily exchange rate was notified through the second quarter of 1981. With effect from November 28, 1979 the commercial and financial markets were unified de jure. Buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, on Decem- ber 31, 1980 were NUr$10.00 and NUr$10.025, respec- tively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies are based on U.S. dollar rates in exchange markets abroad. Export proceeds must be surrendered to the Central Bank. There are no limits on the amount of foreign exchange that the Central Bank may sell to or buy f rom the Bank of the Republic, commercial banks, and banking houses. Uruguay formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from May 2, 1980. Administration of Control Exchange transactions are carried out through autho- rized banks, banking houses, and the Bank of the Republic. Any person or firm may conduct exchange transactions in the market. Exchange houses must be authorized by the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Payments between Uruguay and the countries with which Uruguay has concluded reciprocal credit agree- ments may be made through accounts ma in ta ined with each other by the central banks, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin Ameri- can Integration Association (LA IA ); these countries are Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, and Venezuela. There are separate arrangements for trade in specified goods with Argentina and Brazil. Settlements with other countries are made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to registration before the goods are shipped abroad. The registrations are generally valid for 180 days, within which period goods must be cleared through customs. Most imports are subject to import surcharges. The surcharge rates are 0, 10, 20, 30, 35, 40, 50, 55, 60, 70, and 74 per cent and are payable to the Bank of the Republic at the time of registration, with the exception of the 10 per cent surcharge which is paid to the Central Bank. The Bank of the Republic also collects consular charges. Full or partial exemption f rom these surcharges is granted for imports f rom member countries of the LAIA, for imports made under the credit agreements signed by the Central Bank of U ruguay and the central banks of Argentina and Brazil, for imports of agricul- tural inputs, for imports by the public sector, and for imports under the temporary admission scheme. Most imports are subject to a customs t a r i ff (impuesto aduanero unico, IMADUN I) and a service charge (tasa de movilizacion de bultos—TMB), collected by the Cus- toms Office. Tariff rates vary between 0 per cent and 20 per cent. The service charge is 1 per cent of the c.i.f. import price for most imports. There are exemp- tions to the IMADUNI and the TMB. All imports are subject to consular charges payable in new pesos and calculated on the f.o.b. value. These charges are 3.5 per cent for private sector imports of petroleum and petro- leum products, alcohol, and tetraethyl lead; 0.25 per cent for imports of the same commodities by the state oil, alcohol, and cement enterprise ( A N C A P ); 0.5 per cent for other imports by ANCAP; and 4 per cent for all other private sector imports. Import surcharges are in most cases calculated either on an officially assessed price (aforo), which usually is expressed in U.S. dollars a kilogram, or on the actual c.i.f. value. Payments for Invisibles There are no limitations on the export of foreign or domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds The exchange proceeds of all exports must be sur- rendered in fu ll to the Central Bank upon receipt. At the end of 1980 the prescribed max imum surrender periods were 14 months for all exports. Surrender periods are counted f rom the date on which the ship- ment authorization lapses (normally ten day s ). Tax credit certificates (reintegros) are granted to many exports up to 30 per cent of the f.o.b. value. Exports of cattle on the hoof (except when specially authorized) and specified minerals (including iron, copper, zinc, aluminum, and nickel) are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no surrender requirements on the proceeds from invisibles, and there are no limitations on the import of foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital Inward and outward private capital transfers by either residents or nonresidents may be made freely, with the 441 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY exception of certain inward and outward transfers relat- ing to investments registered under the Foreign Invest- ment Law. The amortization or liquidation proceeds of foreign capital registered under this law cannot normally be transferred abroad until three years after the date on which the investment was approved. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Uruguay or abroad. Changes during 1980 January 11. A resolution of the Ministry of Finance announced that the Bank of the Republic would con- tinue to use the import reference prices existing on December 31, 1979 for purposes of collecting import surcharges. January 23. Decree No. 38/980 exempted imports of soybean meal from the payment of port charges for six months. February 28. Decree No. 130/980 reduced import duties on various manufac tured products from Argentina in accordance with the bilateral trade liberalization pact between the two countries. March 5. Decree No. 131/980 authorized imports of assembled passenger buses and trucks by commercial enterprises destined to be used in international transport. March 28. The Ministry of Finance granted tax credit certificates to exporters of pillows and mattresses, elec- trical meat cutting equipment, men's garments, food products, some leather products, chemical products, shock absorbers, and various other items. April 24. Assembled automobiles with cylinders up to 1,600 cubic centimeters were permitted to be imported as part of the revision of the Government's policy on automobile imports. April 30. Decree No. 244/980 substituted an exchange tax on proceeds f rom exports of animal hides for an export tax on exports of animal hides collected at the time of the export declaration. May 2. Uruguay formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment. May 7. The Ministry of Finance established tax credit certificates for exports of some fur pieces, wax candles, and clothing. June 17. The State Council approved Law No. 15025 which empowered the Executive Branch to impose anti- dumping duties on items found to be dumped in Uruguay. June 18. Decree No. 350/980 reduced import duties on sugar to 65 per cent, and Decree No. 351/980 simi- larly reduced import duties on paints and varnishes. June 27. Decree No. 379/980 eliminated import charges for some textile imports. 442 July 23. The Ministry of Finance granted tax credit certificates to exports of various synthetic rubber products. August 13. Decree No. 438/980 extended the exist- ing tax credit certificate program for exports until the end of 1981. In addition, the decree established a pro- gram to gradually reduce the value of the tax credit certificates to a un i fo rm value of 5 per cent of f.o.b. prices between January 1, 1982 and Janua ry 1, 1985. August 14. Decree No. 439/980 extended the duty exemption for imports of machinery to manufac ture vaccines until the end of the year. September 23. Decree No. 510/980 extended the exemption f rom import duties for class A vehicles. September 25. The Ministry of Finance made rice imports eligible for tax credit certificates. October 3. Decree No. 518/980 exempted imports of up to 30,000 tons of raw sugar f rom payment of import duties, and Decree No. 530/980 similarly exempted imports of corn and sorghum from payment of import duties. October 8. The M in is try of Finance granted tax credit certificates to exports of woolen blankets, leather products, electric batteries, and various other products. November 12. Decree No. 602/980 established new procedures for reducing duties on imports of goods with no domestic substitutes, for imports of goods having domestic substitutes, and for imports of goods whose domestic supply was not sufficient to meet domestic demand. Subject to importers' requests, duties would be reduced immediately to 35 per cent, ahead of the sched- uled tariff reduction, for imports with no domestic sub- stitutes and to 53 per cent for the other two categories of imports. November 19. Decree No. 609/980 established new import surcharge rates for imports of automobile kits and imposed new export requirements for importers of such kits. December 15. Decree No. 648/80 increased import duties on paints and varnishes to 75 per cent and excluded them from fu tu re rounds of tar iff reductions until the maximum overall import duty reached 75 per cent. December 31. The new peso was depreciated from NUr$8.5443 (buy ing) and NUr$8.464 (selling) per US$1 on December 31, 1979 to NUr$ 10.00 and NUr$10.025, respectively, per US$1, on December 31, 1980. December 31. Decree No. 687/80 lowered sur- charges, tar iffs, and other charges by 16 per cent of the difference between the sum of all existing duties and the basic 35 per cent duty established by the tar iff reform decree. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Venezuela is the Venezuelan Bolivar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at Bs 4.2925 = US$1. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar established by the Cen- tral Bank of Venezuela are Bs 4.28 and Bs 4.2925, respectively, per US$1. The commercial banks' selling rate to the public is Bs 4.30 per US$1. Exchange trans- actions arising in connection with the discharge of liabilities by former foreign owners or concessionaries of the Venezuelan hydrocarbon and iron industries take place at a selling rate of Bs 4.20 per US$1. The Central Bank's buying rate in transactions with the public sector (other than the hydrocarbon and iron ore com- panies) and international organizations in which Vene- zuela has a participation or interest is Bs 4.2925 per US$1.1 Buying and selling rates for certain other cur- rencies2 are also officially quoted, based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Foreign banks may only sell foreign exchange that has not been obtained f rom the Central Bank. Exchange houses are permitted to deal only in banknotes, coin, and travelers checks. Venezuela formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from July 1, 1976. Administration of Control There is no exchange control mechanism. Import and export licenses, when required, are generally issued by the Ministry of Development or the Ministry of Agricul- ture and Livestock, depending on the commodity. The Superintendency of Foreign Investments (SIEX) is charged with supervision over foreign investment in Venezuela, over contracts for the importation of foreign technology and the use of foreign patents and trade- marks, and over borrowing abroad. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Payments between Venezuela and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, and Uruguay may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Venezuela and the central banks of the countries concerned. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Afr ica are prohibited. In addi- tion, importation of certain goods is either prohibited 1 The Central Bank does not sell foreign exchange to the public but does sell minor amounts to its staff and certain government officials, for travel expenses, at the rate of Bs 4.30 per US$1. 2 Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French f rancs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, and Swiss francs. or reserved for the Government; these include iron and steel products and certain consumer durables. Certain other commodities also require import licenses. For protective purposes, quantitative restrictions are main- tained on some of these items, irrespective of origin, except for Andean Pact countries. Licenses are valid for all countries except South Afr ica. Import licenses for some goods are issued on the condition that the importer has purchased domestic products equal to a prescribed percentage of the quan t i ty to be imported. All other commodities are free f rom import licensing. Import payments may be made freely. Imports for the government sector are controlled by a commission established by Decree No. 2166 (May 26, 1977) that has the power of prior authorization over all public sector imports. This authorization is needed in order to ob ta in letters of credit, exemption from import duties and, if necessary, financing. By Decree No. 2664 (April 28, 1978), the Foreign Trade Institute was appointed as the technical coordinator of the commission. In accordance with the timetable issued by the Andean Pact Commission, contained in the Protocol of Lima, Venezuela adopted the m in imum external tar iff in 1978 (Decree No. 2772 of August 3, 1978). It has also agreed, in principle, to harmonize external tar iffs and eliminate all import duties on trade within the Andean subregion by December 31, 1983, in the prescribed annual stages. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely; private sector purchases of exchange for this purpose are made f rom commercial banks or exchange houses. Transfers of profits and dividends are limited, in prin- ciple, to 20 per cent per annum of registered foreign capital, in accordance with Decision No. 103 of the Andean Pact. Resident and nonresident travelers must pay on departure a travel tax of Bs 80 a person a trip; children under seven years, foreign tourists, Venezuelan and foreign diplomats, and personnel of international organizations are exempted. Travelers may freely export domestic and foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South A f r ica are prohibited. Exports of certain fu rs and hides, scrap metal, and a few other commodities are prohibited. Licenses are required for the export of commodities subject to price controls, or receiving government subsidies in the production, or deemed to be in short supply domestically; for most commodities such licenses are issued by the Ministry of Development, but those for coffee, cacao, rice, and sugar are granted by the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock. The export of precious stones, including gold, 443 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA requires an export license issued by the Ministry of Finance. There are no surrender requirements for export pro- ceeds or other exchange receipts. Exporters of coffee and cacao may receive an export subsidy calculated to prevent the f.o.b. bolivar prices of these products in Venezuelan ports from fa l l ing below specified minimum amounts regardless of external prices. Eligibility for this subsidy is maintained even if the exchange proceeds are not surrendered. In principle, the benefit of these arrangements may be extended to firms processing domestic coffee or cacao for export. The promotion of nontraditional exports in Venezuela takes two basic fo rm s: first, the Export Financing Fund, established in September 1973, provides direct credit facilities at interest rates below those charged by other lenders, and it also lends in conjunction with commercial banks; second, the Export Incentive Law (September 1973) assists nontraditional exports through fiscal subsidies in the form of tax credit certificates. Under the Export Incentive Law, negotiable tax credit certificates with a two-year maturity are granted to exporters of nontraditional products (i.e., basically exports other than petroleum, iron ore, coffee, and cacao) that have a domestic value added greater than 30 per cent. These certificates can be held to maturity and used to meet government tax liabilities, or can be traded in the local market at a discount. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles are freely dispos- able. Travelers may freely import domestic and foreign currency, with the exception that the Currency Law prohibits the importation for commercial purposes of foreign coin other than gold coin. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers for or by residents are permitted freely. However, brokerage activity in Venezuela in shares or units of foreign invest- ment trusts or mutual funds is prohibited. Foreign cap- ital imported for investment purposes and all foreign credits must be registered with SIEX. Foreign direct investment is governed by Andean Pact regulations. Natural gas and iron mining operations are reserved for the State, and foreign investment in the petroleum sector is prohibited. The Central Bank regulates bank credit to nonresidents and companies whose capital is more than 50 per cent owned by physical persons or com- panies that are resident or domiciled abroad. The Gen- eral Banking Law authorizes the Government to regulate bank credit to companies whose capital is more than 40 per cent owned by nonresident or fore ign physical persons or companies. This law also regulates the activ- ities of foreign banks operating in Venezuela. Gold Venezuelan gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold, acquire, and sell gold 444 coins in Venezuela for numismatic and investment pur- poses. The Central Bank does not deal in gold with the public, but gold coin, medallions, and bars are freely negotiated among licensed importers, exchange houses, and the public. Commercial banks may freely negotiate gold coin among themselves and with other residents but do not normally deal in gold with the public. Imports and exports of monetary gold are reserved for the Cen- tral Bank, as is the import of gold coins that are legal tender in Venezuela. Other imports and exports of gold require licenses. Imports require licenses f rom the Min- istry of Finance and in certain cases also f rom the Ministry of Development, while exports are licensed by the Ministry of Finance only. The law prescribes a license for all imports and exports of gold by anyone not registered at the M in is try of Development as an industrial user bu t, in practice, imports and exports by private persons are permitted free of license. Imports of gold coin and of gold bars and ingots weighing more than 12 kilograms are free of customs du ty; all other gold imports are subject to du ty at varying rates. Changes during 1980 March 26. Import licenses for some wood logs were suspended un t il August 31 (Resolution No. 119). March 26. Imports of electrical generators were exempted f rom the payment of import duties until December 31 (Resolution No. 120). March 26. As the first in a series of measures adopted dur ing the year, Resolution No. 120 was introduced, whereby the requirement of import licenses was elimi- nated for a large number of imported goods. (Similar measures were taken by means of Resolution No. 310 of August 29, Resolution No. 355 of October 31, and Resolution No. 425 of December 23.) April 4. The Central Bank imposed a 25 per cent marginal reserve requirement on loans by banks and financial institutions to firms with more than 50 per cent of their capital owned by foreigners. April 18. Exchange and trade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe (former ly Rhodesia) were l i f ted. April 24. Ad valorem import duties on certain motor vehicles were reduced f rom a range of 50-350 per cent to a range of 15-100 per cent and specific duties were introduced for some motor vehicles (Decree No. 579). May 6. The ad valorem import du ty on wire imports was reduced f rom 60 per cent to 1 per cent (Resolution No. 177). May 8. Ad valorem import duties on rubber products and pneuma t ic tires were reduced from a range of 40-120 per cent to a range of 1-50 per cent (Resolution No. 178). May 9. Ad valorem import duties on various manu- factured imports were modified, and specific duties were introduced on some of these imports (Resolution No. 181). Import reference prices were established for some 80 models of passenger automobiles and trucks also manufac tured domestically (Resolution No. 182). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution May 12. The Central Bank imposed a 20 per cent minimum reserve requirement on overseas deposits of Venezuelan banks. In addition, a 25 per cent m in imum reserve requirement was imposed on deposits of multina- tional corporations operating in Venezuela. June 18. Ad valorem import duties were reduced on television sets and certain electrical machinery, while duties were increased on some other products. June 30. The Superintendency of Foreign Investments allowed investments from the Andean Development Corporation, the Inter-American Development Bank, or the International Finance Corporation to be con- sidered substitutes for local investment funds for pur- poses of complying with the Andean Pact requirement of 51 per cent of local ownership for fore ign companies. August 28. Ad valorem duties on imports of fer t i l izer were reduced from 50 per cent to 1 per cent. September 2. Ad valorem duties were reduced for numerous foods tu f fs and mineral, chemical, metal, and machinery products (Resolution No. 310 ). September 11. The Superintendency of Foreign Investments liberalized the profit reinvestment provisions of foreign companies. Under the new provisions, a fo r- eign company could reinvest profits in excess of the Andean Pact limit of 7 per cent of the registered invest- ment if it involved an expansion of installed capacity approved by the Ministry of Development and if the profits used for the financing of the investment had been VENEZUELA previously deposited in an account registered w i th the Superintendency of Foreign Investments. October 2. The Central Bank stipulated the condi- tions under which banks could lend to firms with more than 50 per cent of their capital owned by foreigners. The max imum amount that banks could lend to these companies was maintained at 40 per cent of their capital and retained earnings. The marg inal reserve require- ment on these loans was maintained at 25 per cent, the rate in effect since April 4. October 7. Ad valorem duties were reduced for imports of tractors and other commercial motor vehicles f rom a range of 70-135 per cent to a range of 15-20 per cent (Resolution No. 342 ). In addition, import refer- ence prices were established for 'some additional 60 motor vehicle models (Resolution No. 343). October 26. Export licensing requirements were elim- inated for most of the 110 kinds of products to which it applied. The only products for which an export license would still be required were commodities whose output was not large enough to sa t isfy domestic demand, com- modities whose production was subsidized by the Gov- ernment, or commodities subject to price controls. December 23. Import duties were reduced for shoe and textile imports with duties on textile imports being lowered to the levels of the common external ta r i ff of the Andean Pact (Resolution No. 426 ). 445 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET NAM (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement On May 3, 1978 the Nor th Vietnamese dong and the South Vietnamese dong were withdrawn f rom circula- tion and a new currency, the Vietnamese Dong, was introduced, with an official exchange rate of D 2.66358 = SDR 1, equivalent to D 2.17 = US$1. In practice, the exchange rate between the dong and the U.S. dollar has been maintained w i th in relatively narrow margins, while the rate for the SDR has been left to fluctuate. On November 5, 1980 the middle rate for the U.S. dollar was set at D 2.379 = US$1; on that date the official rate for the dong was changed to D 3.06459 = SDR 1. Exchange rates of the dong for certain fo re ign currencies are quoted by the State Bank of Viet Nam on the basis of the cross rates of these currencies vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar. A premium of 50 per cent is applied to inward transfers and receipts f rom tourists in convertible cur- rencies. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the State Bank. All fore ign trade is administered by the M in is try of Foreign Trade, which authorizes the foreign trade trans- actions carried out by specialized state import-export corporations or, in certain cases, cooperatives or state enterprises. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade; approval is given on the merit of each application and depending on whether the transaction is covered by the Foreign Trade Plan. All foreign exchange transactions are effected by the Bank for Foreign Trade. Prescription of Currency Trade transactions with member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA ), Albania, and the Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea are settled in rubles. Nontrade transactions with coun- tries with which Viet Nam has bilateral payments agree- ments1 take place at exchange rates specified in these agreements. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are permitted to ma in ta in nonresident accounts either in foreign currencies or in dong. Non- residents can freely reconvert into foreign currency and transfer abroad unused balances in Vietnamese currency that have been acquired against foreign currency. Imports and Exports An import and export plan is drawn up annua l ly. Import and export transactions are, for the most part, 1 At the end of 1980 Viet Nam had bilateral paymen ts ag reemen ts with nine countries that were not members of the IMF —Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hung a ry, Mongolia, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Poland, and U.S.S.R., and with five IMF members —Bangladesh, Mali, People's Republic of China, Romania, and Syrian Arab Republic. 446 carried out by about 15 state import-export corporations. Some of these corporations have their own producing units, while others contract with supplying enterprises. In principle, the price received by the producing enter- prise bears no relation to world prices, since the sale f rom the producer to the t r ad ing corporation is a domes- tic transac t ion at prices set by the au thor i t ies. Nonethe- less, given that goods for export are usua l ly of a h igher qua l i ty than those for the domestic ma rket and that a policy of export incen t ives is being followed, goods for export command higher prices. Imports effected by the state t rad ing corporations are sold in the domestic market at prices set by the au tho r i t ies. All payments for t rade transac t ions need the au tho r iza t ion of the State Bank and are made th rough the Bank for Foreign Trade. Export receipts are no rma l ly channeled through the Bank for Foreign Trade, and any other receipts from fore ign trade have to be surrendered to the State Bank. Adm in is t ra t ive procedures were changed in 1980 to allow direct contacts between domestic producers and foreign buyers in order to increase domestic knowledge of foreign m a rk et requ iremen ts, pa r t icu la r ly in the area of local processing of ma te r ia ls for export or re-export. For the purpose of prov id ing add i t ional incen t ives to production for export, an export bonus system has been in troduced. By f u l f i l l i ng P lan targets, exporters earn a bonus of 2 per cent to 3 per cent of the value of exports, depend ing on the qua l i ty and k ind of product; the bonus increases to 3-5 per cent of the excess of exports over targets. In add i t ion, for exports in excess of Plan targets or outside the P lan, a new fac i l i ty has been established to provide credits in fo re ign exchange to domestic producers to f inance impor ts of the required inpu ts. To this end, a fo re ign exchange f u n d, adm in is- tered by the Bank for Foreign Trade, was established in August 1980. Add i t ional incentives are prov ided in the form of a right for exporters to use a portion of the net earnings ( r ang ing f rom 30 per cent to 70 per cent of net earn ings, depending on the qua l i ty and k ind of p roduc t) to import mach inery, raw materials, or needed consumer goods. For this purpose, deposits in fo re ign currency are held at the Bank for Foreign Trade in the name of the exporter. These deposits can be used to f inance domestic purchases, in which case they are t rans fe r red to the name of the seller. Except for gen- erally prohibited items, applications for imports financed through the use of these deposits are approved au toma t i- cally. Payments for Invisibles All transac t ions in invisibles require ind iv idual au thor- ization by the State Bank. Foreign "exchange is made available upon au thor iza t ion of the t ransac t ion. All travel abroad needs ind iv idual au tho r iza t ion and at ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution present is limited to official business for which all for- eign exchange expenses are covered. Students abroad in nonsocialist countries who had left the coun try before April 1975 may receive foreign exchange allocations as determined by the State Bank for each individual case. Receipts f rom transactions in invisibles have to be sur- rendered to the State Bank within seven days. The export and import of Vietnamese currency and of securities denominated in Vietnamese currency needs the special permission of the State Bank. Capital The Foreign Investment Law provides for three fo rms of foreign investment: ( 1) investment in the production of goods intended solely for export; (2) jo int ven tures between a foreign investor and a Vietnamese state eco- nomic organization; and (3) production-sharing part- nerships for the exploitation of na tural resources. The share of foreign capital that is permitted ranges f r om 30 per cent to 49 per cent for joint ventures and up to VIET NAM 100 per cent for enterprises spec ia l iz ing in p roduc t ion for export. There are gua ran tees of r ep a t r i a t ion of p ro f i ts and of proper compensa t ion in the event of nationalization. Gold The State Bank alone has a u t h o r i ty to pu rchase, hold, and sell gold in any f o rm, at home or abroad. Physical persons are permitted to own jewe l ry and a r t i s t ic and cu l tural objects of gold for domes t ic and personal use. Changes during 1980 August 1. A fo re ign exchange f u n d, adm in i s t e r ed by the Bank for Foreign Trade, was established to p rov ide credits in fo r e ign exchange to domes t ic p roduce rs to f inance impor ts of inpu ts for expo r ts in excess of P lan targets or ou t s ide the Plan. November 5. The off ic ial rate for the dong was changed f rom D 2.66358 = SDR 1 to D 3.06459 = SDR 1. 447 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution WESTERN SAMOA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Western Samoa is the Western Samoa Tala. Since July 6, 1979 the value of the tala in terms of the New Zealand dollar is determined by reference to a basket of currencies and to other factors that are con- sidered important in determining that external value. Exchange rates for other currencies are established on the basis of their daily rates against the New Zealand dollar. On December 31, 1980 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were WS$0.9199 and WS$0.9475, respectively, per US$ 1. There is an exchange levy of 1 per cent on gross sales of foreign exchange, giving rise to spreads in excess of 2 per cent in exchange transactions. Administration of Control Overall responsibility for the administration of exchange control rests with the Monetary Board, but the daily administration of exchange controls and the exchange allocation system is entrusted to the Treasury Department, subject to the control and the instructions of the Minister of Finance and the broad guidelines laid down by the Monetary Board. The Minister of Finance may delegate his au thor i ty to the Financial Secretary, who in turn may delegate part of his powers to the Sec- retary of the Monetary Division of the Treasury and to authorized banks. All payments to nonresidents of Western Samoa require the approval of the Ministry of Finance. The M in is try has delegated to the Bank of Western Samoa and the Pacific Commercial Bank —the only authorized banks —powers to approve certain pay- ments up to any amount, and certain other payments up to specified amounts. Prescription of Currency There are no prescriptions as to the currencies in which payments to or from nonresidents of Western Samoa must be made or received. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between the accounts of resi- dents and nonresidents of Western Samoa. Imports and Import Payments The import of a few commodities is prohibited for reasons of security or health. Other commodities may be imported f rom any source. Each licensed commer- cial importer receives a quarterly allocation of foreign exchange, which may be used freely for the import of any commodity that is not prohibited, except automo- biles and certain other commodities requiring prior approval by the Monetary Board.1 The allocations are 1 Flour, sugar, milk products, and spare parts for motor vehicles may be imported freely outside the allocation system. Prior to Ju ly 1980 permitted imports of automobiles, except those by the Govern- ment and nonresidents using their own foreign exchange holdings, were limited to 12 a month. In July 1980 the import of automobiles was, with certain exceptions, prohibited until the end of the year. 448 made by the Monetary Board and are communicated to the authorized banks which automatically provide the foreign exchange required for import payments upon submission of documentary evidence. From October 1, 1979, imports purchased under open account arrange- ments are financed from current allocations even if payments are not due until a later period. Persons who are not licensed importers may import any commodity freely up to WS$100 a person a year but require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance for imports of higher value. Private buyers of motor vehicles are required to lodge a downpayment of 50 per cent of the retail value with the importing agency. Payments for Invisibles Payments for certain invisibles, such as overseas con- tractual obligations and insurance, are approved auto- matically by the authorized banks up to individual limits of WS$5,000 for the public sector, WS$ 10,000 for out- ward remittances, and WS$ 10,000 for letters of credit. Payments in excess of these limits, as well as payments for all other invisibles, require the prior approval of the Monetary Board. Remittances for study abroad are freely authorized. The Ministry of Finance approves up to any amount the transfer of income derived locally f rom pensions, rents, interest, and dividends by persons permanently resident overseas. Residents traveling over- seas for business or private purposes are entitled to a foreign currency allowance equivalent to WS$50 a per- son a day, subject to a limit of WS$2,000 a person a year. The Ministry of Finance grants supplementary allocations against evidence of genuine need. Resident travelers may take out foreign banknotes, as part of their foreign currency allowance. Travelers may not take out any domestic currency. Remittances of interest pay- ments overseas are subject to a withholding tax of 15 per cent. Exports and Export Proceeds Virtually all exports require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance. Export of all goods in excess of WS$200 requires an export certificate validated by an authorized trading bank. Exports may be prohibited by the Director of Agriculture and the Produce Marketing Division on grounds of low quality, or by order of the Head of State to alleviate domestic shortages. Exports of copra are controlled by the Copra Board, exports of cocoa by the Cocoa Board, and exports of bananas by the Banana Board. An export levy of 7 per cent is imposed on the f.o.b. value of cocoa and copra exports.2 Export proceeds must be surrendered to the authorized banks w i th in a reasonab'e time af ter shipment. Where 2 The export levy on cocoa is activated at a price of WS$800 a ton and that on copra at WS$100 a ton. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exceptional circumstances exist, the Ministry of Finance may waive this requirement for certain export items. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered to the authorized banks. Resident travelers must on re turn sell to the banks all foreign currency brought in. Resi- dent and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign banknotes, but no domestic banknotes. Capital All outward capital transfers by residents require the specific approval of the Ministry of Finance, and capital received by residents must be surrendered. Inward capi- tal remittances do not normally require approval, but borrowing abroad by nonbank residents does require approval. The transfer of legacies from estates of deceased local residents to beneficiaries permanently residing overseas is approved up to a limit of WS$ 10,000 a year. The authorized banks approve transfers of gifts to relatives and dependents, either for special family occasions or by way of maintenance, up to WS$200 a year for each fam i ly group. Foreign investments in speci- fied activities in Western Samoa are encouraged. The Enterprises Incentive Act provides for the granting of certain relief of customs duties, income tax, and business license fees to persons engaged in approved enterprises. Both the repatriation of capital and profit remittances on foreign capital are subject to approval by the Minister of Finance; such approval is normally granted. WESTERN SAMOA Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form. There are no restrictions on imports or exports of gold. Changes during 1980 February 1. Import duties on petroleum products (gasoline, diesel fuel, and kerosene) were adjusted from a specific to an ad valorem basis. The change involved an increase in the effective rate of taxation. July 1. A withholding tax of 15 per cent was intro- duced on outward remittances of interest payments. July 15. Exports in excess of the equivalent of WS$200 were made subject to export certificates vali- dated by authorized trad ing banks. July 25. As part of a series of exchange control measures, import allocations for the September 1980 quarter for all consumer items were reduced by 12 per cent and advance allocations for that quarter were dis- continued. In addition, Monetary Board approval was henceforth required for the following transactions: (1) all requests by the public sector for foreign exchange in excess of WS$5,000; (2) all outward remittances in excess of WS$ 10,000; and ( 3) all letters of credit in excess of WS$ 10,000. Imports of motor vehicles were also prohibited for the remainder of the year except in cases where Monetary Board approval had been granted or where financing was effected through the remittance of overseas funds. The minimum value of exports requiring an export certificate was lowered from WS $ 1,000 to WS $200. 449 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Yemen Arab Republic is the Yemen Rial, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at YRls 4.5 = US$1. On December 31, 1980 the official buying and selling rates for spot telegraphic transfers were YRls 4.5500 and YRls 4.5750, respectively, per US$1. (An exchange rate of YRls 5.0 = US$1 is used for customs valuation purposes.) Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are fixed daily by the Central Bank of Yemen on the basis of rates for the U.S. dollar in mar- kets abroad. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control There is no exchange control. The Ministry of Economy and Industry grants licenses for imports, with the exception of licenses for imports of food and cement, which are granted by the Ministry of Commerce and Supply. Transactions in invisibles are supervised by the Central Bank for statistical purposes only. All commer- cial banks and exchange dealers operate in foreign exchange. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements.2 Settlements may be made in any currency. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel are prohibited. Importation of certain items of used machinery for purposes of resale is also prohibited. Imports of petroleum and petroleum products are reserved for the Yemen Petroleum Com- pany. All other imports require licenses, which are issued freely. In addition to a license, the importation of certain commodities requires the permission of cer- tain government agencies. Imports that are financed by the importer with his own foreign exchange held abroad also require an import license. Importers who hold an import license may obtain the necessary foreign exchange 1 Deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Jordan dinars, Kuwaiti dinars, Lebanese pounds, Ne ther lands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arab ian riyals, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 3 There is a bilateral payments arrangement with Egypt which is inoperative. f rom the local banks. A margin deposit of 20 per cent is prescribed against letters of credit opened for all imports. In addition to the applicable customs duty, imports are subject to a defense tax of 5 per cent and a statistical tax of 2 per cent. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles may be made freely. Travelers may freely take out any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel are prohibited. For statistical pur- poses only, all exports must be registered on forms that are issued free ly by banks; export licenses are not required. Exporters are not required to surrender their foreign exchange proceeds, which may be retained in foreign currency accounts with domestic banks. All exports are subject to a defense tax of 5 per cent, and certain exports are subject to a duty. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles need not be surrendered but may be retained in foreign currency accounts with domestic banks. Travelers may freely bring in any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. Capital No restrictions are imposed on inward or outward capital t rans fe rs, but they are subject to the provisions of the Investment Law administered by the Ministry of Economy and Indus try. Foreign investors in the Yemen Arab Republic are free to transfer abroad any desired proportion of their net profits a f ter taxes or of their capital. Certain tax and customs du ty exemptions and concessions are granted for a period of five years to approved projects. Gold Residents are free to purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in the Yemen Arab Republic and to import or export gold in any form without an import, export, or exchange license. Changes during 1980 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 450 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen is the Yemeni Dinar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at YD 1 = US$2.89524. Buying and selling rates for the pound sterling are also officially quoted by the National Bank of Yemen (the sole commercial bank and authorized dealer), with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in mar- kets abroad. On December 31, 1980 the National Bank of Yemen's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were YD 0.343 and YD 0.350, respectively, per US$1. Rates for all other prescribed currencies are quoted weekly; additional adjustments are made when there are major changes in the market rates for these cur- rencies in London and New York the previous day. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control The administration of exchange control is carried out by the General Department for Exchange Control of the Bank of Yemen (the central bank) through the Foreign Exchange Committee, which has delegated certain powers to the Director of Exchange Control, a member of that Committee. The Ministry of Trade and Supply issues import and export licenses; those for gold and other precious metals require the prior approval of the Director of Exchange Control. Exchange trans- actions must be carried out through the National Bank of Yemen. Other dealers in foreign exchange, who may deal only in travelers checks and banknotes, are classified into ordinary money changers and secondary dealers. Ordinary money changers, whose principal business is to sell and purchase foreign exchange for their own account or for the account of the National Bank, are permitted to deal in specified currencies. Secondary dealers, such as hotels, travel bureaus, and retail stores selling tourist goods, are permitted to accept payment in foreign exchange only from their customers, and are required to surrender the receipts in foreign exchange to the National Bank no later than the following business day. While the authorized bank and money changers are allowed to charge a commission for the purchase and sale of foreign exchange as specified by the Committee, secondary dealers may not do so. Except for payments for imports against letters of credit or documents, which may be approved by the authorized dealer, all payments for imports (including those of precious metals) require the prior approval of the Director of Exchange Control. Certain public corporations are engaged in foreign trade (see section on Imports and Import Payments, below). Prescription of Currency Exchange transactions must be carried out through the authorized dealer in accordance with prescription of currency regulations. All payments to Israel are prohibited. Export proceeds and certain receipts from invisibles must be received in prescribed currencies1 and surrendered to the authorized dealer. Payments for imports must be made in prescribed currencies. Nonresident Accounts External Accounts in Yemeni dinars may be credited with proceeds from convertible foreign currency trans- ferred from abroad, with bank interest payable on such accounts, and with balances from other External Accounts. Transfers f rom abroad must be in the form of bank draf ts; the accounts may not be credited with payments in the form of foreign banknotes (unless they have been declared to the customs on en t ry ), or with locally raised or locally earned funds (except in certain specified cases). External Accounts may be debited for any payments to residents, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for payments abroad in any convertible currency. Transfers abroad f rom External Accounts in Yemeni dinars require the prior approval of the Exchange Control Department. The Foreign Exchange Committee may direct any payment to a nonresident to a Blocked Account. Except with the Committee's prior approval, Blocked Accounts may be debited only for purchases of specified securities. Subject to certain conditions, Yemeni nationals work- ing abroad may establish nonresident accounts in foreign currencies; balances in these accounts earn interest and are convertible into foreign currency on demand. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel are prohibited. All imports require individual licenses. Goods originating in the Yemen Arab Republic are exempt f rom the licensing requirements. There is an annual import program. Importers may import certain goods with their own exchange; such imports require prior approval by the Ministry of Trade and Supply. Payments for imports on a c. & f. basis against letters of credit or documentary draf ts can be made by authorized dealers without the prior approval of the Director of Exchange Control; most other forms of payment for imports require approval. Insurance on imports must be effected locally. The National Company for Foreign Trade has a monopoly over imports of flour, sugar, wheat, rice, ghee, cooking oil, tea, and cigarettes. It is also the sole importer of automobiles and other vehicles, all govern- 1 Belgian f rancs, Canadian dollars, deutsche m a rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwa i ti dinars, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U.A.E. dirhams, and U.S. dollars. 451 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN ment requirements, and most requirements of the public hospitals, as well as other specified items. Imports into and exports from the free port zones within the port of Aden are free of exchange and trade controls (except in respect of transactions between these zones and the rest of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen) and are exempt from customs duties, except that the pro- ceeds of exports and re-exports financed originally by the authorized bank are subject to the surrender require- ment (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). In all cases, exporters from the free zones are required to undertake to repatriate in convertible currencies commissions, profits, and other expenses relating to the processing of goods in the zones and to surrender the currencies to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require prior approval by the Director of Exchange Control. Profit remittances abroad by foreign firms should not normally exceed 50 per cent of the accrued net profit in any one year. The basic exchange allowance for tourism, which resi- dents may take up without applying for exchange con- trol approval, is the equivalent of YD 125 a person a trip in travelers checks, draf ts, and foreign notes and coin (50 per cent of this amount for children under ten ) .2 Allowances for medical treatment abroad are normally granted up to the equivalent of YD 200 a per- son, with higher amounts under exceptional circum- stances. Allowances for other types of travel are granted on the merits of the application. Foreign employees of approved enterprises are allowed to remit abroad between 50 per cent and 100 per cent of their total earnings (net of taxes) according to the terms of the contract; other foreign employees, if receiving their salaries from abroad, are allowed to remit 70 per cent of their total earnings. All insurance is nationalized; existing policies have been transferred to the National Insurance and Reinsurance Company, and payments abroad in respect of premiums are not permitted. Travelers may take out the equivalent of YD 5 in domestic banknotes and up to the equivalent of YD 125 in travelers checks, foreign banknotes, or other foreign means of payment. Nonresidents may take out any foreign exchange declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports are subject to individual licensing. All exports to Israel are prohibited. Except for exports to the Yemen Arab Republic specified by the Foreign Exchange Committee, export proceeds must be received in prescribed currencies within six months of shipment and must be sold to authorized dealers upon receipt. Most of the proceeds of exports or re-exports to the 2 The equivalent of YD 75 for Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kuwait, Oman, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Yemen Arab Republic, and the Gulf states. Travelers to the Yemen Arab Republic may alternatively take out up to YRls 1,000 in Yemen rials. 452 Yemen Arab Republic may be surrendered national currency of the importing country. in the Proceeds from Invisibles All claims of residents for services rendered to non- residents must be collected in foreign currency (or received from an External Account) and surrendered to the authorized dealer. Travelers may freely bring in foreign banknotes; imports of more than YD 5 in domestic currency are subject to a tax of 50 per cent. Tourists are required to spend in foreign exchange an amount equivalent to YD 50 a month or US$10 a day if the duration of their stay is less than one month. Capital Virtually all capital payments and transactions require prior approval. Expatriates are normally permitted upon departure to remit their liquid funds to their country of permanent residence. Foreign investments that have been approved under the Law for the Organization of Industry and the Promotion of Industrial Investment may be granted exemptions from import duty and various other tax facilities. Beginning five years after production has started, the net value of the enterprise (calculated on the basis of actual or book value, or surrender or liquidation value, whichever is less) is transferable at the rate of 25 per cent a year; if, how- ever, an expatriate national or a foreign investor encounters operational difficulties, his capital may be re transferred six months after entry. Interest due on any loans obtained abroad after the firm concerned has been established may also be remitted, provided that all duties, taxes, and other government dues have been paid. Gold Only the monetary authorities and authorized dealers may purchase, hold, or sell gold bullion. Licensed goldsmiths may purchase, hold, and sell other unworked gold and gold coin and ornaments. Other residents may hold gold in the form of ornaments or numismatic coins. Exports and imports of gold by registered gold- smiths require licenses issued by the Ministry of Trade and Supply (General Department for Foreign Trade); in certain cases, the consent of the Foreign Exchange Committee must also be obtained. Departing residents may take out gold ornaments not exceeding 10 tolas3 in weight, subject to registration in their passports. Arriving female nationals may bring in gold ornaments up to 25 tolas du ty free and up to an additional 25 tolas a f ter paying import duty at a rate of 30 per cent. However, arriving male nationals may bring in gold ornaments up to 40 tolas after paying import duty. Changes during 1980 April 18. Exchange and trade restrictions applying to Zimbabwe (former ly Rhodesia) were lifted. June 1. Certain foreign exchange operations pre- 3 One tola is equal to 180 grains troy or 0.4114 ounce. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN viously handled by the Bank of Yemen were delegated to the National Bank of Yemen in order to simplify the administrative procedures and to improve services. Operations such as the opening of external accounts, the purchase of foreign exchange, and the transfer of remittances abroad could henceforth be carried out at the National Bank of Yemen without prior approval by the Bank of Yemen. In addition, nonresidents were allowed to purchase airline tickets in local currency with- out prior approval by the Bank of Yemen. 453 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Yugoslavia is the Yugoslav Dinar. The authorities do not ma in ta in the exchange rate of the dinar within announced margins, and therefore, all transactions, with the exception of those effected under the procedures set for th for certain countries with which Yugoslavia has bilateral payments agreements (see sec- tion on Prescription of Currency, be low ), take place at a f luc tua t ing exchange rate. However, the authorities intervene in the foreign exchange market, when neces- sary, to ensure orderly conditions and to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates. The buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in the fore ign exchange ma rket in Belgrade on December 31, 1980 were Din 29.2526 and Din 29.3404, respectively, per US$1. Rates are also quoted for certain other currencies.1 Administration of Exchange Control The Federal Assembly formu la tes the decision on foreign exchange policy of the coun try for each year; the projections of the balance of payments and the foreign exchange balance of Yugoslavia are component parts of this decision. The projections contain the mu tua l ly adjusted plans of the balance of payments and the foreign exchange balances of the republics and autonomous provinces, as well as the foreign exchange expenditures and revenues of the Federation. A self- managing community of interest for foreign economic relations has been set up in each republic and autono- mous province. On the basis of un i fo rm criteria pre- scribed by the Yugoslav Community of Interest for Foreign Economic Relations, members of republican and provincial communities conclude agreements and prescribe policies to be followed to achieve the agreed volume of exports of goods and services, as well as the procedure for borrowing and lending abroad, under internal self-management agreements. The Federal Executive Council prescribes the general provisions in respect of foreign trade and exchange operations. The Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade makes decisions governing commercial transactions and issues import and export licenses when required. It is also charged with securing balanced trade with pay- ments agreement countries. The Federal Secretariat for Finance, the National Bank of Yugoslavia, and the National Banks of the republics and autonomous prov- inces administer the exchange controls. The Na t ional Bank prescribes the methods of payment to and f rom foreign countries. Foreign exchange transactions must be carried out through an authorized bank, of which there are two types: ( 1) Fully authorized banks, which are permitted to engage in transactions with foreign countries and may engage in all fore ign exchange transactions in Yugoslavia and abroad, as well as in foreign credit operations ( inc lud ing the g ran t ing of gua ran tees ). (2) Banks which are authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations in Yugoslavia only; they may neither keep foreign exchange accounts abroad nor engage in fo re ign credit operations, except through banks authorized to engage in fore ign exchange transactions abroad. Authorized exchange offices may only purchase foreign bankno tes and travelers checks; this status is open to all commercial and savings banks. In addition, hotels and tourist agencies, if specifically authorized, may also purchase fore ign banknotes and travelers checks. Commercial exports and imports may be effected by all economic organ iza t ions (bo th produc ing and t rad ing under tak ings) registered for th is purpose. Economic organizations that are not registered to conduct fo re ign trade channel the ir imports and exports through eco- nomic organ iza t ions which are authorized to engage in foreign t rade transactions. Resident physical persons may not engage in foreign trade. Prescription of Currency Paymen ts to and f rom countries w i th wh ich Yugo- slavia has b i la te ral paymen ts agreements are made in the currencies, and according to the procedures, set fo r th in those agreements. If no agreement exists, set- tlement is made in a convertible currency. Yugoslavia has payments agreements requ i r ing settlements in U.S. dollars w i th A lban ia, Czechoslovakia, the German Dem- ocratic Republic, Mongolia, and the U.S.S.R. Nonresident Accounts Foreign jur id ical and physical persons may ma in ta in accounts denominated in fo re ign exchange and in dinars in Yugoslavia according to the following rules: for- eigners resident outside Yugoslavia may freely open accounts in convertible currencies or in d ina rs with fu l ly authorized banks in Yugoslavia; fo re ign missions and foreigners resident in Yugoslavia may f ree ly open accounts expressed in fore ign currencies or d inars, with any authorized bank. Foreign exchange accounts in conver t ib le currencies of nonresident ju r id ical and physical persons are kept in the currency deposited.2 Balances held in Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, and Danish 1 Aus t ra l ian dollars, Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian f rancs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, Finnish ma rkkaa, French f rancs, Iraqi dinars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwa i ti d inars, Nether- lands guilders, Norweg ian kroner, pounds s ter l ing, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 2 Accounts may be denom ina ted in any of the fo l low ing currenc ies: Austrian schillings, Belgian f rancs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche m a r k, Finnish m a r k k a a, French f ran s s, I t a l i an lire, Japanese yen, Ne the r lands gu i lders, Norweg ian k rone r, pounds s t e r l ing, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. dollars. 454 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution kroner on these accounts may be used for all payments in Yugoslavia, in dinars or in the currency concerned, and abroad, in any convertible currency. Transfers f rom these accounts are free if made in the currency in which the account is kept; outward transfers in other convert- ible currencies are subject to the bank holding the account being prepared to make the necessary conver- sion. Nonresident foreign exchange accounts in bilateral currencies may be opened only for certain foreign ju r id i- cal and physical persons resident in Yugoslavia. Bal- ances may be used only for d inar payments in Yugosla- via or for retransfer to the bilateral country to which the account is related. Foreign jur id ical and physical persons may freely open nonresident accounts in convertible dinars with autho- rized banks. Such accounts can be credited freely w i th amoun ts whose transfer in convertible currency has been authorized, and they may be used for paymen ts for goods and services and other payments in Yugoslavia and for transfers abroad or to other foreign persons. Nonresident ju r id ical and physical persons may also open other d inar accounts with authorized banks. These other accounts may be credited with d inars acquired in Yugoslavia in accordance with the existing regulations. Balances are, in principle, non transferab le and may be spent in Yugoslavia only for noncommercial payments by the account holder or by members of his immed ia te fam i ly, or by the owner and s taff of fo re ign firms if the account holder is a foreign ju r id ical person. If balances on these accounts derive f rom copyright royalties, f rom work performed in Yugoslavia by foreigners, f rom pen- sions, disability allowances, compensations to persons decorated with the Order of the National Hero, f u n ds of persons who have emigrated f rom Yugoslavia, or f rom alimony payments, transfers may be effected under specified conditions. Resident nationals may ma in ta in foreign exchange accounts or foreign exchange savings deposits in convert- ible currencies with any authorized bank. These accounts are kept in the foreign currency deposited and bear interest, which is paid in the same foreign currency. Foreign exchange accounts may be retained indef in i te ly and may be drawn upon freely for payments in Yugo- slavia and abroad on behalf of the account holder or members of his immediate fam i ly; balances are not transferab le to other persons or accounts (see section on Proceeds f rom Invisibles, be low ). Yugoslav na t iona ls residing abroad and former emigrants re turn ing to Yugo- slavia may also open foreign exchange accounts in Yugo- slavia that may be used freely for payments in Yugosla- via or abroad. Imports and Import Payments Commercial imports may be effected only by economic organizations registered as par t ic ipa t ing in foreign trade. Most ma jor industrial producers are so registered, in addition to economic organizations that YUGOSLAVIA specialize in foreign trade. The impo rt of certain basic foods tuffs, such as wheat, rice, coffee, lard, and sugar, is carried out by economic organ iza t ions that have been selected by the Federal Office for Food Reserves, on the basis of public bids. For most commodities, import licenses are not required. All commodities included in the fore ign trade nomenclature are classified in three categories, largely in accordance with the manner in which exchange is made available: LB —liberalized goods; RK and DK— goods subject to quan t i ty or va lue quotas; D —imports subject to ad hoc licensing. Goods in the LB category are ma in ly raw materials, foods tuffs, and spare parts, but also some consumer goods. Protective equ ipment for wo rke rs and all other goods not specifically included in the RK, DK, or D lists are also liberalized and f ree f rom any quan t i ta t ive restriction. Exchange for paymen ts for imports f rom the convertible currency area is made available on the basis of se l f -management agreements concluded w i th in the self-management commun i t ies of interest in any convertible cu r rency app rop r ia te to the expo r t ing coun- try. Payments for impor ts f rom paymen ts agreement countries must be made in the manner prescribed in the relevant agreement and may be restricted acco rd ing to the ava i lab i l i ty of f u n ds in the app rop r ia te c lea r ing account. Imports under commodity quotas (RK list or DK l i s t) inc lude raw ma te r ia ls, m anu f a c tu r ing components, equipment, and consumer goods. The quotas are estab- lished e i ther in quan t i t ies (RK) or in d ina rs ( D K ). There are separate quotas in each case for imports from convertible area countries and paymen ts agreement countries; the ir allocation among impor ters is decided by agreement among the economic organ iza t ions .3 Add i- tional quotas may be allocated du r ing the year if the enterprise to wh ich the quo ta is allocated unde r takes to increase exports. Goods in list D comprise gunpowde r, firearms and ammun i t ion, petroleum, lubr ican ts, drugs, n a t u r al gas, and b i tumen obtained f rom pe t ro leum. Import licenses are required only for list D commodities. For ce r ta in goods there is an add i t ional requ i rement of a special import license ("accordance") issued by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade. At the end of 1980 goods subject to this requ irement comprised 71 LB items, 13 RK items, and 2 DK items. The items include a wide range of tropical foods tu f fs and f ru i ts, raw materials, cocoa butter, fa ts and oils, raw cotton, textiles, and t in; the Secretariat may also prescribe direct importation f rom the coun try of origin. 3 In principle, any such allocation among impor ters mu st be agreed on among economic organ iza t ions w i th in the Chamber of Economy according to pro jec t ions of ma te r ial balances for each commodity, which are based on the projected g row th ra tes of p roduc t ion. If the impo r te rs are unable to agree among themselves or if the allocation decided upon does not correspond to established principles, the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade is au thor ized to decide on the distribution. 455 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA Private persons who are Yugoslav nationals and hold foreign exchange accounts with Yugoslav banks may use these funds freely to import goods for their own use or for the use of close relatives residing with them and for purchases of certain goods in Yugoslavia with dinars obtained by selling foreign exchange held in these accounts. Self-employed Yugoslav nationals may freely import machinery for small fa rms or equipment for hand icraft production, up to Din 120,000 a shipment, and manufacturing components, up to Din 40,000 a ship- ment. As an exception to the foregoing, owners of for- eign exchange accounts and Yugoslav nationals working abroad may import automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, mopeds, and bicycles, together with mounted motors and essential spare parts for these vehicles, provided that these are imported through a registered enterprise and payment is made through a foreign exchange account held at a Yugoslav bank. Yugoslav and foreign nationals are exempt from this prescribed manner of payment and method of importation, however, under the following circumstances: when they return for permanent residence in Yugoslavia, provided that they have spent at least five years abroad; when a vehicle is inherited; when a motor vehicle is purchased out of an insurance indemn i ty received for a motor vehicle that has been destroyed and had originally been paid for in foreign currency; and if they have spent at least two years abroad con- tinuously and have owned a vehicle for at least two years. A 1 per cent tax for customs evidence and a 6 per cent tax-equalization charge are payable on all com- modities not exempt f rom customs duty. Many agricul- tural commodities are subject to variable import levies. There are special facilities for full or partial exemption for payment of customs duties on certain imports by Yugoslav workers returning from abroad. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to merchandise trans- actions, including transportation, are fu l ly liberalized. Foreign exchange to cover expenses abroad for export promotion is made freely available to exporters. Pay- ments for other invisibles may be made from the remit- ter's own foreign exchange funds or from the foreign exchange accounts of organizations of associated labor on the basis of self-management agreements w i th in the self-management communities of interest of the republics and autonomous provinces. Purchases of services abroad, as well as spare parts, fuel, etc., by Yugoslav enterprises involved in international fre ight and pas- senger transportation, are liberalized. There is no exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad. However, Yugoslav citizens are allowed to use balances f rom their foreign exchange accounts for tourist travel abroad. Under specified conditions, the following transfers may be effected abroad: payments for improv- ing labor relationships, pensions, disability allowances, 456 and payments to recipients of an Order of the National Hero, alimony payments, payments for court-ordered compensations or indemnities, the profits of foreign con- tractors performing capital construction work in Yugo- slavia, 10 per cent of the proceeds from cultural, enter- tainment, sport, and other performances given abroad by groups or individuals, and transfers permitted by the Federal Secretariat for Finance. In addition, copyright royalties are transferable abroad if such transfers are based on reciprocity and if foreign exchange resources have been provided. Payments in respect of royalties and alimony granted by court order are fu l ly transfer- able, but if a payment is to be made to a country with which Yugoslavia maintains a bilateral payments arrangement, then such payment may be made only if the agreement in question provides for reciprocity. Authorized banks may sell foreign currency for remit- tances for court and other fees abroad and for specified personal expenses on the basis of approval from the appropriate authorities in the republics and autonomous provinces. Not more than Din 1,500 in domestic cur- rency, in denominations of Din 100 or less, may be taken out by travelers. Foreign travelers may bring in and take out any amount in foreign exchange without declaring it. Exports and Export Proceeds Foreign exchange earned through exports of goods and services and other fo rms of economic cooperation with foreign countries, as well as through purchases on the foreign exchange market, is considered to belong to the par t icu lar organizations of associated labor that have taken part in its realization. An organization of associated labor may keep such fore ign exchange in a foreign exchange account, may sell it to an authorized bank, or may use it for its own payments abroad in accordance w i th the existing regulations. In principle, exports are free of control, except for certain raw materials that are in short supply on the domestic ma rket ( inc lud ing petroleum and petroleum derivatives and certain l ives tock ), and certain other materials such as gunpowder, weapons, and narcotic drugs. Exports to countries with which Yugoslavia has bilateral payments agreements are subject to approval ("accordance") by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade. Such approval may be given for a group of commodities, or for all commodities to be exported within a certain period (global app rova l ). Permission to export to bilateral countries may be made conditional on an unde r tak ing to import from such countries or to export to other countries. Proceeds f rom exports must be repatriated within 90 days f rom the date of exportation, unless specific exemption is granted. The surrender of these proceeds is not required. The fu ll export proceeds may be credited to foreign exchange sight-deposit accounts, which the exporter maintains with an authorized bank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of his choice; separate accounts must be established for each currency. Exchange on these accounts may be used in accordance with self-management agreements within the individual republics and autonomous provinces. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated within 90 days from the date on which the claim is payable. The performance of construction and engineering services is subject to approval ("accordance") issued by the Federal Committee for Energy and Industry. Exchange proceeds may be used for payments abroad connected with the activities of the economic organiza- tion concerned, including payments for purchases of equipment and other material for capital construction work abroad. The exchange proceeds are transferable to Yugoslavia and belong to the economic organizations that have earned them, or they can be sold to authorized banks. If the exchange is used to pay for imports, the usual import procedures apply. Residents who, while employed abroad, deposited their savings in foreign savings banks and obtained a "bilingual savings book," issued under specific arrangemen ts between Yugoslavia and fore ign banks, may w i thdraw their balances in the form of foreign exchange when in Yugoslavia. Residents may hold interest-bearing foreign currency accounts in Yugoslavia. The accounts may be credited with the fu ll amount of a person's savings in foreign exchange. These accounts may be used freely for the personal needs of the account holder and of his immediate fam i ly; they are not transferable to other persons or accounts and may be retained indefinitely. Not more than Din 1,500 in Yugoslav banknotes, in denominations of Din 100 or less, may be brought in by travelers. Capital The organizations of associated labor and other social legal persons may borrow abroad in accordance with self-management agreements, concluded within the communities of interest for foreign economic relations of the republics and autonomous provinces. Foreigners may invest in Yugoslav economic organi- zations but only through jo int ventures; apart f rom exceptional cases, such foreign investment is limited to 49 per cent of the organization's capital. Profit t rans fe rs are permitted up to one half of the j o i nt venture's foreign currency earnings from exports of goods and services. Realized profits f rom investments in organiza- tions of associated labor in underdeveloped republics and the Province of Kosovo may be repatriated in fu l l. If the law governing joint ventures were to be amended, the legal provisions in force on the date of registration of a jo int venture would continue to be applied dur ing the entire life of the investment contract, if the foreign investor so desires, or at the latter's option, any more YUGOSLAVIA favorable provisions of the amended legislation could be applied. Foreign firms are permitted to establish repre- sentational offices in Yugoslavia. The investment income earned abroad by Yugoslav economic organizations must be repatriated within 90 days. Residents are obliged to repatriate foreign exchange held or accruing abroad on capital account. Economic organizations wishing to participate in for- eign enterprises may be allowed to export the necessary capital under special conditions set by federal law; such capital should be registered with the Federal Sec- retariat for Foreign Trade. Gold In 1968 the National Bank issued certain commemora- tive gold coins, which are legal tender. Foreign travelers are freely permitted to import and export these coins, subject to customs declaration, and for exports, subject to proof that they have been purchased in Yugoslavia. Residents who are private persons may hold gold coin in Yugoslavia, which may be sold to any authorized bank, and they may freely hold, purchase, and sell gold jewe lry and other articles of gold in accordance w i th the existing regulations on trade in goods and on control of articles made f rom precious metals. Domestic economic organizations that have been registered as traders in gold may import gold jewelry under the DK import regime; they may free ly export gold jewelry and other articles of gold. Authorized banks may free ly export gold coin. Producers may export newly mined gold or sell it to specified users at home at the average price on the in te rna t ional gold ma rke t. Domestic sales of newly mined gold by the producers may be made at a price which equals the average quo ta t ion in free gold ma rke ts abroad. Domes- tic economic organizations using gold for the ir no rmal activities may purchase gold from domestic producers or abroad on the basis of quotas allocated to each such organization individually. Changes during 1980 Dur ing 1980, in addition to the depreciation ind ica ted below (see en try for June 6 ), the exchange rate changed f requen t ly and depreciated f rom Din 19.19 per US$1 on December 31, 1979 to Din 29.34 per US$1 on December 31, 1980. February 15. Regulations were published re la t ing to the conditions, criteria, and procedures for the alloca- tion of commodity quotas and foreign exchange quo tas for imports of goods in 1980 (Off ic ial Gazette No. 8). May 30. Regulations were issued specifying the cr i ter ia for financing stocks of export goods du r ing periods of slack ma rket conditions abroad (Off ic ial Gazette No. 30 ). June 6. The d inar was depreciated f rom Din 21.09 to Din 27.30 per US$1; previously, it had been depreciated frequen t ly by small amounts since December 31, 1979, 457 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA when the exchange rate was Din 19.1342 buying, and Din 19.1916 selling, per US$1. In addition, the elimina- tion of the 10 per cent import surcharge was announced. June 6. Regulations concerning the new basis for the valuation of customs operations were announced to adjust trade values to the newly established exchange rate (Official Gazette No. 32 ). Further regulations were announced on October 3 (Official Gazette No. 55). June 13. Coffee and specified chemical products were t rans fe r red from the quota system to the liberalized list (Off ic ial Gazettes Nos. 34 and 41 ). June 20. The validity of the law on performance of investment projects abroad was extended through the end of 1980 (Official Gazette No. 35 ). July 11. The conditions for the temporary importation of transportation equipment, certain tools, and machin- ery by economic organizations were liberalized (Off ic ial Gazette No. 38 ). August 8. A decision allowing the automatic alloca- tion of foreign exchange and commodity quotas for imports related to the completion of projects financed by loans obtained from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development was issued (Official Gazette No. 44 ). August 15. Special additional quotas and their alloca- tions were announced for the import of goods in local border areas and from neighboring overseas areas; the measure was intended to benefit organizations of asso- ciated labor in less-developed regions (Official Gazette No. 45 ). October 31. The export of superphosphates was transferred f rom the freely exportable list to the list subject to licensing requirements (Official Gazette No. 61 ). November 7. Two decisions were issued regulating the conditions under which the domestic dinar proceeds that resulted f rom rendering services and selling certain domestic goods were specified as foreign exchange pro- ceeds. Equal treatment was granted thereafter for services rendered for international freight commodity and passenger transportation and paid in d inars (Official Gazette Nos. 58 and 63). November 7. A new law regulating the tax for equalization charge was issued (Official Gazette No. 63 ). November 28. A regulation was issued for the pur- pose of distributing foreign exchange proceeds between the organizations of associated labor engaged in the trade of goods and services and organizations engaged in production, based on the pooling of labor and resources among these organizations (Official Gazette No. 66 ). December 31. A decision regulating the 6 per cent equalization charge on imported goods was adopted on the basis of the law passed on November 7 (Official Gazette No. 73 ). 458 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE (Position on December 31,1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Zaire is the Zaire, which since February 22, 1980 has been pegged to the SDR at SDR 0.262500 = Z 1, corresponding to Z 3.80952 = SDR1. Middle rates for the 17 currencies in which authorized banks are permitted to deal1 are fixed daily by the Bank of Zaire (the central bank) on the basis of the SDR rate. On December 31, 1980 the middle rate for the U.S. dollar was Z 3.005 per US$1. Forward exchange transactions are prohibited. In addition to a commission charge, purchases and sales of foreign exchange are subject to an exchange control fee. Administration of Control The Bank of Zai're has regulatory authority over all foreign trade and payments. Specifically, the Bank has discretionary power to authorize residents to hold foreign exchange and to use it to pay for certain goods and services. The Public Debt Management Office (OGEDEP ), operating under the aegis of the Depart- ment of Finance, manages the external public and publicly guaranteed debt, is responsible for its servicing, and advises the Executive Council on external debt policy, including guarantees extended by the Govern- ment on loans contracted by public, semipublic, and private enterprises. In principle, no new external bor- rowing may be contracted or guaranteed by the Govern- ment without the prior advice of OGEDEP and the Bank of Zai're. Prescription of Currency Payments from nonresidents must be received in the listed convertible currencies quoted by the Bank of Zai're.1 Special authorization for the acceptance of another currency may be given only in respect of cur- rencies that can be exchanged freely w i thout a discount. Except for working balances, all currencies received must be converted into a convertible currency. Payments to nonresidents must be made in one of the listed con- vertible currencies. However, certain settlements with Angola, Burund i, and Rwanda are made through special accounts established under arrangements concluded by the Bank of Zai're with the central banks of the coun- tries concerned. Balances on these special accounts are settled quarterly in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident accounts: Nonresident Accounts in Zai'res, Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts, and Convertible Accounts in Zaires. 1 Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Bu rundi f rancs, Canadian dol- lars, CFA francs, Danish k rone r, deutsche m a rk, French francs, Italian lire, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Rwanda f ranc s, Swedish kronor, Swiss f r an c s, and U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts in Zaires may generally be debited only with the approval of the Bank of Zai're. Such accounts, when opened by diplomatic missions and international organizations established in Zaire, may be debited freely but may be credited only with the proceeds of sales of foreign currency and with payments made by the Government. Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts may be credited freely; they may be debited freely for transfers to accounts abroad or to Convertible Accounts in Zaires maintained by residents or to Nonresident For- eign Currency Accounts, for sales of foreign currency, and for sales of foreign currency against domestic currency. Nonresident Zairian nationals require special authorization f rom the Bank of Zaire to open these accounts with authorized banks; nonresident foreigners may open them freely. Convertible Accounts in Zai'res may be credited with amounts converted f rom foreign currency at the official rate, transfers from another Convertible Account in Zai'res, or authorized payments by residents to non- residents; they may be debited freely for conversion into foreign currency or for any payments in domestic currency. Such accounts may be held by both residents and nonresidents but must not be credited with pay- ments for exports of goods or services except for listed items exported to Burundi and Rwanda and exchange purchases f rom tourists from these countries. Imports and Import Payments Imports are subject to an allocation system (coeffi- cients de preaffectation) which limit each banks' financ- ing of imports of 15 specified consumer goods and Pharmaceuticals to 33 per cent of its retained proceeds from exports. The other coefficients are 35 per cent for raw materials, intermediate goods, chemical products, spare parts, and utility vehicles, 25 per cent for invisibles, and 5 per cent for nonpriority items.2 In addition, since March 16, 1979 the Bank of Zaire has given authoriza- tion that proceeds f rom invisibles may be applied to the importation of priority goods. Certain banks have been authorized to allocate proceeds f rom invisibles for such payments. The importation of a number of goods is prohibited on grounds of public policy; these are mainly arms, ammunition, and narcotics. The importation of specified luxury items ( inc lud ing high-powered automobiles, cer- tain types of jewelry, and f u r n i t u r e) is prohibited for reasons of economic policy. For the import of most commodities other than pr ior i ty items (ma in ly food- s tuffs, pharrnaceuticals, raw materials, and industrial 2 On February 3, 1981 the coe f f ic ien ts we re rev ised, as fo l low s: 45 per cent for raw ma ter ia ls, etc.; 30 per cent for essential con sumer goods; and zero for nonpriority items. 459 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE spare p a r t s ), import licenses must be submitted to the Bank of Zai're for prior approval. The importation of certain textiles and clothing is prohibited for protective reasons, while import licenses for other items produced domestically, but not in sufficient quantities, are only issued on the basis of an authorization f rom the Depart- ment of National Economy. Settlements for imports must be made through confirmed irrevocable letters of credit. For most goods subject to license, the importer must obtain a credit of at least 90 days; payments upon shipment are authorized provided prior approval is requested from the Bank of Zai're and a 6 per cent rebate is obtained. Imports not subject to import licenses approved by the Bank of Zaire are subject to import declarations, which do not require the prior approval of the Bank. The amount, the invoice price, and the quality of all imports must be verified and found acceptable by the foreign correspondents of the Office Zairois de Controle. Applications for import licenses are sent to authorized banks, which, af ter certification, fo rwa rd them to the Bank of Zaire for approval in the fo rm of a visa. The import license application is then returned to the author- ized bank for validation. Import licenses validated by the authorized banks remain valid for customs clearance for six months, and the va l id i ty may be extended fu r th er if shipment has begun. Extension of the validity period of a license requires authorization f rom the Bank of Zaire. Imports effected under bilateral aid arrangements between Zaire and certain countries (Be lg ium, Canada, the Federal Republic of Germany, and the United States) are governed by separate, specific provisions. Certain import payments have been delayed. These arrears have largely been centralized, and the Bank of Zaire is in the process of settling them in accordance with an order of priority based ma in ly on their due dates. Arrears on payments due to official creditors and commercial banks have been the subject of con- solidation agreements. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are limited to 25 per cent of each bank's retained merchandise export earnings; such payments may also be effected with receipts from invisibles. All payments are subject to authorization by the Bank of Zaire. The Bank of Zaire will not author- ize the payment in foreign exchange of commissions in favor of shippers or purchasing agents. Imports and exports between Zaire and ports in Belgium, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Netherlands, and the Scandi- navian countries must be shipped in vessels participating in the conference of the Associated Central West A f r ica Lines. Banks are not authorized to pay in foreign cur- rency the maritime freight on shipments that do not meet these regulations, unless an immediate discount is obtained on the invoice; in the case of exports, banks 460 are authorized to validate export declarations for prod- ucts included in an official price list. For other items, import declarations are subject to prior approval by the Bank of Zaire. Banks may effect maritime fre ight pay- ments in foreign currency at the time of shipment only for imports payable upon shipment. Maritime freight charges may be paid in Zaire in local currency when goods are transported entirely by the Compagnie Mari- time Zairoise. Payments by expatriates for medical treatment abroad require prior authorization from the Bank of Zaire. Outward remittances of remunerations by expatriate employees during 1980 were limited to the level authorized du r ing 1979. All other payments relating to services performed by nonresidents are, in principle, permitted. However, the t rans fer abroad of salaries of foreign nationals is limited to 50 per cent of net salary. Transfers pe r ta in ing to cer- tain administrative expenses that firms incur abroad, interest on private loans, and payment of certain portions of insurance premiums are generally permitted. Transfers of net prof i ts of firms with foreign participa- tion have been suspended except where the transfer of such prof i ts is expressly guaranteed by the Investment Code or by bilateral agreements. Payments for com- missions, management fees, and royalties are also suspended. Fares for travel abroad may be paid in Zaire in domestic currency. However, residents of Zairian nationality may travel by a foreign airline only with the permission of the Department of Transportation and Commun ica t ion. Resident expatriates are, in general, permitted once a year to purchase in domestic currency a direct round-trip ticket to their country of origin. Zairian nationals traveling abroad on official missions may buy foreign exchange in amoun ts that depend on the duration of the jou rney and the seniority of the traveler. Foreign exchange for travel and for medical expenses are suspended, and all official travel abroad must be authorized by the First Government Commis- sioner. For trips to Bu rundi and Rwanda tourists and households residing in the border area are entitled once a month to purchase the equivalent of SDR 100 in Burundi or Rwanda francs. The export of domestic bankno tes and coin is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports not covered by general declarations require ind iv idual declarations. Banks are normally authorized to approve such declarations. The declara- tion must specify the nature of the merchandise to be exported, the price, and the currency in which payment is to be received. Export declarations are normally valid for three mon ths; w i th in this period, the proceeds must be received and surrendered. Producers who export generally are permitted to retain 15 per cent of their export receipts for authorized uses. For coffee exporters, the retention quotas are 20 per cent for planters who ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution also process and export and 10 per cent for those who only export. All exports other than those by the Gen- erale des Carrieres et des Mines du Za'ire (GECAM INES) and certain other specified companies must be made against confirmed letters of credit. Special provisions apply to the mineral production of GECAMINES, which is marketed exclusively by the Societe Zai'roise de Commercialisation des Produits Miniers (SOZACOM) or its subsidiary, SOZAREX. On shipment, SOZACOM credits the account of GECAMINES with a provisional payment of a portion of the shipment's estimated value and with the balance of the proceeds upon execution of the sales contract. GECAMINES is allowed to retain provisionally up to 45 per cent of its export proceeds with banks abroad or in Za'ire for meeting its own payments abroad, and must surrender the remainder of its proceeds as well as any end-of-month balances on retained earnings in excess of Belgian francs 800 million to the Bank of ZaTre. SOZACOM and SOZAREX are required to surrender two thirds of their foreign exchange proceeds to the Bank of Zaire. Partial nonrepatriation and retention are also per- mitted for the metal exports of the Societe de Develop- pement Industriel et Minier du Zaire (SODIMIZA) and diamond exports of the Societe Miniere de Bakwanga (M i B A ). For diamond exports, two thirds of the value established at a preliminary examination in Zaire must be surrendered before the shipment is dispatched. Receipts from agricultural exports must generally be repatriated within three months of validation. Banks are required to surrender to the Bank of Zaire 30 per cent of export receipts surrendered to them. M in imum export prices have been established for coffee, cacao, tea, ivory, papain, rauwolfia, and cinchona. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be re ta ined by the authorized banks. Nonresident travelers may br ing in any amount in fore ign means of payment and may take out on departure the amount declared on entry less the equivalent of the expenses incurred du r ing their stay in Zaire. Capital The repa tr ia t ion of new fore ign capital brought in under the provisions of the Investment Code is guar- anteed, as is the transfer of profits and dividends on such capital. With m inor exceptions, other t rans fe rs abroad of capital owned by residents or nonresidents are not permitted. Gratuitous transfers of real estate are subject to approval by departmental ordinance. The fo re ign currency assets of the authorized banks are not permitted to exceed their short-term liabilities in foreign currencies. Certain capital payments have been delayed. Arrears on principal due to official creditors and com- mercial banks are the subject of consolidation agree- ments. ZAIRE Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities and producers of gold are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry; the import and export of gold in the form of jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler requires the prior approval of the Bank of Zaire. Producers of gold are required to sell their production to the Bank of Zaire. Changes during 1980 February 1. Letter No. 153 required commercial banks to invest 80 per cent of their externally held foreign exchange balances in interest-earning instruments of less than 12 months' ma tur i ty, with a view to mini- mizing nonremunerative balances. February 1. The preferential exchange rate for small diamond producers was abolished. February 8. The commercial and paymen ts agree- ment signed by Angola and Zaire on October 25, 1978 and December 22, 1979, respectively, entered into effect. Under the payments agreement, reciprocal credit lines in U.S. dollars were established in the respective central banks; balances in excess of US$500,000 at the end of each quarter must be settled within 15 days (Circular No. 168). February 22. The zaire was devalued f rom Z 1 = SDR 0.3750 to Z 1 = SDR 0.2625. February 23. Circular No. 169 permitted resident producer-exporters to open interest-free deposit accounts in foreign exchange with authorized banks. Such accounts could be credited with at most 15 per cent of export receipts and by t rans fe rs from other such accounts within Zaire or, with the authorization of the Bank of Zaire, outside of Zaire, and could be debited with ( 1) payments for imports of raw materials, intermediate goods, equipment, spare parts, transport vehicles, and consumer goods; (2) transfers under global authoriza- tions granted to the account holders; (3) other author- ized payments; (4) transfers to other resident foreign currency accounts; and (5) purchases against zaires by Zairian banks. The account holders have priority in using balances in these accounts for their own external payments. The Bank of Zaire reserves the right to purchase foreign exchange f rom these accounts with local currency if the balances are deemed too high or inactive for a given period. In case of a devaluation, banks have to buy the balances in the accounts at the old rate and resell them at the new rate; the d ifference in local currency would be ceded to the Bank of Zaire. In accordance with Circular No. 156 of Ju ly 31, 1978, 30 per cent of export receipts must be ceded to the Bank of Zaire; use of the rema in ing 55 per cent (i.e., excluding the 15 per cent which the exporter could free ly deposit in foreign exchange accounts) would be governed by prevailing regulations as set fo r th in Cir- cular No. 156 (as amended ). March 27. Circular No. 170 limited the amounts of 461 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE remuneration which expatriate employees might remit abroad in 1980 to amounts authorized for 1979. May 15. The Department of Finance gave permission to the customs to allow clearance of imports made with- out license and financed without purchase of foreign exchange from the banks, on condition of payment of the applicable customs duty. July 1. A Memorandum of Agreement between GECAM INES and the Bank of Zaire on the surrender and use by the former of foreign exchange came into effect. Under the agreement, GECAMINES would t ran s fer its balances abroad into accounts which the Bank of Zaire maintains with correspondents abroad. The counterpart of these balances would be credited by the Bank of Zaire to resident foreign currency accounts of GECAMINES at authorized Zairian banks. Such balances may not fa ll below Belgian francs 800 million and the related flows would be governed by special provisions agreed between the two parties. (This agreement was revoked on November 7—see entry below.) September 2. The Bank of Za ire began a census, to be completed w i th in two months, of private payments due abroad but not effected for lack of foreign exchange. October 15. A special schedule for the retention of export receipts by coffee exporters was established. The rates were 20 per cent for p lan ters who also process and export, 15 per cent for processors who export, and 10 per cent for those who only export. November 7. The Memorandum of Agreement between GECAM INES and the Bank of Zaire was revoked. The previous system, under which GECAM INES retained 45 per cent of its export proceeds, was restored. 462 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Zambia is the Zambian Kwacha. Since March 17, 1978 the middle rate for the kwacha has been fixed at K 1 = SDR 0.976311. Zambia avails itself of margins of 2.5 per cent around that fixed rela- tionship. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency, and the rates of the Bank of Zambia ( the central b ank) for the U.S. dollar are based on the daily calculation of the U.S. dollar-SDR rate. On December 31, 1980 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were K 0.80048 and K 0.80650, respectively, per US$1. The Bank of Zambia deals with the Government and with authorized banks in U.S. dollars and sterling. Au thor- ized banks are free to deal in other currencies at rates based on daily rates provided by the Bank of Zambia, or on the basis of cross rates with the U.S. dollar pre- va i l ing in international foreign exchange markets. In its dealings w i th the commercial banks the Bank of Zambia applies a margin of 0.25 per cent for purchases of fo r- eign exchange and 0.50 per cent for sales. Authorized b anks are permitted to charge an add i t ional 1 per cent on either side for sales and purchases of U.S. dollars, and 1.50 per cent for sales and purchases of other cur- rencies, when quoting their rates to customers. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fo re ign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Zambia under powers delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. Much of the authority for approving normal current payments is in tu rn delegated to commercial banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange. The con- trol of trade is the responsibility of the M in is try of Commerce, which also issues import and export licenses. Overall import policy is determined by a committee on which the Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Finance, and the Bank of Zambia are represented. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Zambia to residents of other countries may be made in Zambian currency to the credit of an External Account, or in any fore ign currency. Payments f rom residents of other countries may be received in sterling or in Zambian currency f rom an External Account, or in any fore ign currency freely exchangeable for U.S. dollars or sterling. All permitted commercial transactions with residents of Zimbabwe are subject to the same exchange control provisions as are applied to any External Account country. However, restrictions on the repatriation of blocked assets of residents of Zim- babwe remain unchanged for the time being (see also section on Nonresident Accounts, be low). Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Zambian currency held w i th authorized banks by residents of other countries are designated External Accounts.1 These accounts may be credited with authorized payments f rom residents of Zambia, with t rans fe rs f rom other External Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom sales of any fore ign currency by nonresidents to authorized banks. They may be debited for payments for any purpose to residents of Zamb ia, for t ran s fe rs to other External Accounts, and for pu r- chases of any fore ign currency f rom au thor ized banks. Blocked Accounts in Zamb ian cu r rency held w i th authorized banks by residents of any coun t ry o ther t h an Zamb ia are credited w i th non t rans fe rab le cap i tal sums in Zamb ian currency. All debits and credits to such accounts requ ire the prior approval of the exchange control au tho r i t ies, except that the accounts of em ig ran ts may be debited each year for the perm i t ted ann ive r sa ry allowance for a r em i t t an ce to the c o u n t ry of res idence of the account holder. No rma l ly, approval is given for the investment of balances on Blocked Accounts in Zam- bian securities, provided that these are held in Zamb ia to the order of an au tho r ized dealer. The in te re st on Blocked A c c o u nt balances is freely t ran s fe rab le to the account holder's coun t ry of residence, except in terest on existing blocked assets due to a resident of Zimbabwe. Following the l i f t ing of sanctions against Zimbabwe, balances in prev ious ly blocked accounts of Z imbabwean residents rema in non t rans fe rab le pend ing agreement on se t t lement of Zamb ian residents' blocked accounts in Zimbabwe. Imports and Import Payments The impo rt f rom all countries of ce r ta in specified commodities is proh ib i ted for reasons of hea l th, safe ty, or pub l ic policy. Personal and household effec ts, sam- ples, d ip loma t ic shipments, and means of t ran spo r ta t ion entering Zambia tempo ra r i ly do not requ i re ind iv idual import licenses, nor do any other goods for personal use and consump t ion, provided that the person impo r t- ing them does not import more than K 50 worth of such goods in any period of 90 days. However, no payment may be made for goods not licensed, even where the va lue is less th an K 50. The import of goods up to a value of K 500 that does not involve a rem i t tance of foreign exchange is also exempt f rom a licensing require- ment. The two ma jor m in ing companies and the Minis- try of Hea l th are granted priority for bona fide requ i re- ments. The Controller of Customs is au thor ized to adm it emergency goods imported w i thout prior reference to the M in is try of Commerce. All other imports require indi- v idual import licenses. 1 Au tho r ized b anks are requ i red to o b t a in p r ior perm iss ion of the exchange con t rol au tho r i t i es be fo re d e s ign a t ing any new E x t e r n al Account except whe re the account is to be opened for a t em p o r a ry visitor. 463 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA Import licensing aims at containing imports within a half-yearly exchange allocation established by the Minis- try of Commerce in consultation with the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Zambia. However, subject to approval, imports may be licensed without allocation of exchange. All imports under individual licensing are divided into three-digit groups following the Standard International Trade Classification system and into end- use groupings. Exchange allocations are specified for each of these categories. Normally, raw materials, inter- mediate goods for fur ther processing in Zambia, phar- maceuticals, and fuel and electricity are licensed liber- ally; alcoholic beverages, tobacco, durable consumer goods, and other consumer goods are licensed restric- tively. No licenses are being issued for specified luxury consumer goods or for items that are produced locally. In principle, foreign exchange for import payments is automatically made available once an import license has been obtained, subject to presentation of the relevant documents to an authorized bank, including a clean report of findings issued by the General Superintendence Company Limited of Geneva, which verifies the price, quality, and quantity in the country of origin or shipment. Most imported goods are subject to a sales tax of 12.50 per cent of taxable value, which is calculated as the sum of ( 1) 120 per cent of the customs value; (2) the applicable customs du ty; and (3) 25 per cent of the sum of (1) and ( 2 ). Certain import payments are in arrears; these arrears have been centralized, and the Bank of Zambia is settling them in accordance with certain priorities. Payments for Invisibles Authorized dealers are, in general, permitted to pro- vide foreign exchange up to 40 per cent of the f.o.b. value of imports to cover freight and other charges. There is a tourist travel allowance of K 500 an adult for each calendar year; for travel within Africa, other than by air, half of this amount may be approved by authorized dealers. The basic exchange allowance for business travel is K 120 a person a day for up to 15 days a calendar year and is limited to two trips a year; exchange for this purpose may also be provided by the commer- cial banks without prior reference to the exchange con- trol authorities. Exchange is provided, subject to certain limits, for other purposes such as education and medical treatment. Applications for amounts exceeding these limits may be granted by the exchange control authori- ties, if they are satisfied that exceptional treatment is justified. Applications for remittance abroad of part or all of payments for advertising, management, accounting, administrative, engineering, and consulting services rendered to residents by nonresidents are subject to ind iv idual approval by the Bank of Zambia, which generally grants the required permission, provided that the fees charged are reasonable, that they relate to existing contracts, and that these services cannot be 464 provided domestically.2 Profits and dividends of sub- sidiaries and branches of companies whose head offices are situated outside Zambia may be transferred abroad up to 15 per cent of the nonresident share of the equity capital, or 50 per cent of net profits accruing to the nonresident owners of incorporated companies, which- ever is smaller.3 Expatriate farmers are permitted to remit 12.5 per cent of their after-tax profits including profits earned f rom a partnership or private limited company engaged in farm ing. A fur ther 10 per cent may be held to their credit every year for eventual remittance when they leave Zambia. Such remittances are allowed once a year after the end of the accounting year. The remittance of depreciation allowances is not permitted. Foreign nationals employed in Zambia on a contract made a f ter December 4, 1971 are allowed to remit one th ird of their annual earnings to the country nominated when the contract was registered with the exchange control authorities. Foreign nationals recruited before December 4, 1971, and still employed on a contract entered into prior to that date, are allowed to remit to the ir country of domicile one half of their annual earn ings. Foreign nationals availing themselves of these arrangements are not entitled to the regular allowances for travel, education, maintenance, etc.; their leave salary, g ra tu i ty, and other terminal benefits are trans- fe rab le only on completion of the contract period and are subject to a ceiling of K 8,000 on departure and K 5,000 as a subsequent annual allowance. Remittances of up to K 20 a year are normally approved by the exchange control authorities for fam i ly maintenance. Travelers leaving Zambia may take out a maximum of K 10 in Zambian currency. Certain current payments for invisibles are in arrears. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports valued at over K 50 require a license, except those covered by an open general license; min- erals are exported under general agreements with the m in ing companies. The export of certain metals is reserved, in principle, for an official agency, the Metal Ma rke t ing Corporation. Certain commodities are sub- ject to licensing mainly to ensure domestic supplies of needed goods and of certain strategic materials, such as implements of war, lead in any fo rm, certain min- erals, petroleum products, certain rough and uncut precious stones, scrap and old metals, and ju te bags. For most goods, however, export licenses are issued freely. Export proceeds in foreign currency appropriate to the coun t ry of destination must be offered for sale to an authorized bank within six months of the date of 2 Services rendered by a parent company abroad to its branch or who l ly owned subsidiary in Zamb ia are not genera l ly approved. :{ An aud i to r 's certificate must be subm i t ted to the effect that the amount to be t r an s f e r r ed represents bona fide realized p ro f i ts derived f r om the year's operations a f t er f u ll provision has been made for local taxa t ion. The p ro f it and loss account and balance sheet for the year in respect of wh ich application is being made must also be subm i t ted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution shipment; the foreign exchange proceeds of copper exports, however, must be credited to a Bank of Zambia account in London upon receipt.4 Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any currency must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes that may be imported by travelers, except that travelers from Zaire are allowed to import only up to the equiva- lent of K 20. Travelers arriving in Zambia may bring in a maximum of K 10 in Zambian currency. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted, but with the exception of overseas short-term financing of imports other than certain capital goods, all borrowing outside Zambia requires the approval of the exchange control authorities. Outward transfers of capital are controlled, but nonresidents are normally permitted to repatriate their investments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original investment was made with funds brought into the country from sources out- side Zambia. The repatriation must be spread over a period longer than three years. Local borrowing by companies controlled either directly or indirectly from outside Zambia is restricted to a debt-equity ratio of 1 to 3. However, the Bank of Zambia permits borrow- ings in excess of this limit for certain priority sectors of the economy, provided that the borrowings secure higher employment opportunities and /or savings of foreign exchange. In general, residents are not permitted to transfer capital abroad and, with certain exceptions, are required to offer for sale to an authorized bank any foreign exchange which accrues to them. As a special measure, however, residents may purchase Zambian securities quoted on recognized stock exchanges abroad, provided that the securities so acquired are registered in the names of specified nominees and that, in the event of subsequent disposal of these securities, the sales pro- ceeds will be repatriated. All income earned f rom these investments must be repatriated. Emigrants are granted exchange as follows: (1) Per- sons 50 years of age and over are allowed K 8,000 on departure, and subsequent annual transfers of K 5,000. (2) Married persons under 50 are allowed K 4,000 on departure, together with K 250 for each child, up to a max imum of K 5,000 for a family unit. Thereafter, annual transfers of K 3,000, together with K 250 for each child, up to a maximum of K 4,000 for a fam i ly unit are permitted. ( 3) Unmarried persons under 50 are allowed K 2,000 on departure, and subsequent annual 4 From May 1, 1981 nonnational ag r icu l tu ral producers became eligible for certain incentives in the fo rm of fo re ign exchange, on the basis of every s tandard bag of maize, whea t, or soybean sold by them in excess of the prescribed number of bags. Corresponding fore ign exchange incentives for national agr icu l tural producers would also be made available on application to the exchange control authorities. ZAMBIA transfers of K 1,500. In addition to their emigration allowance, emigrants may remit gratuities, compensation payments, up to one third of leave pay, and terminal benefits up to a maximum of K 8,000 on departure, and up to K 5,000 as annual transfers. In addition, there are special facilities for expatriate farmers for the trans- fer of profits up to certain limits (see section on Pay- ments for Invisibles, above). Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Zambia for numismatic purposes. With this exception, resi- dents other than the monetary authorities and author- ized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange control approval as well as import or export licenses issued by the Minister of Commerce; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone tary authorities and industrial users. Gold-bearing sludge is exported by copper companies for refining and sale abroad. Foreign exchange for imports of gold may be provided with the permission of the Bank of Zambia. Changes during 1980 January 28. The basic travel allowance for private ind iv idua ls was raised f rom K 300 a year to K 500 a year. However, for travel within Africa by car or bus or by rail, authorized dealers were permitted to sell foreign exchange only up to K 250 an adult. If the traveler applied for the full K 500, approval by the exchange control authorities was required. March 6. The t rans fer abroad of leave pay for for- eign na t iona ls employed under contract in Zambia was restricted to one th ird of total leave pay; this amount p lus the f u ll amount of any gratuity were subject to the overall limit of K 8,000 on departure. May 14. Authorized dealers were informed that no foreign exchange should be released for goods whose value did not exceed K 50 and for which no import license was submitted. August 12. A foreign exchange entitlement scheme was in troduced for certain agricultural goods as follows: Non-Zambian agr icu l tural producers of maize would receive the equivalent of K 0.5 in fore ign exchange for every s tandard bag (90 k i lograms) in excess of 5,000 bags sold. For wheat the same entitlement would be ava i lab le for each bag in excess of 2,000 bags sold and for soybeans for each bag in excess of 1,000 bags sold. For Zambian agr icu l tural producers, whether companies or individuals, generous allowances for holidays would be made available provided they produced crops in excess of the above-mentioned m in imum requirements. November 28. The allowance for business travel was raised f rom K 75 a day to K 120 a day for a maximum period of 15 days a calendar year and for no more than two trips a year. 465 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE1 (Position on December 31, 1980) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Zimbabwe is the Zimbabwe Dollar. The exchange rate of the Zimbabwe dollar is determined on the basis of fixed relationships to a transactions- weighted basket of currencies consisting of the French franc, the deutsche mark, the pound sterling, the South African rand, the Swiss franc, and the U.S. dollar; the U.S. dollar is the intervention currency. The spread applied by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe between the buying and selling rates is 0.8 per cent for ma jor cur- rencies and 1.0 per cent for other currencies. An addi- tional 0.25 per cent on either side of the quoted rates of major currencies may be charged by authorized dealers (authorized commercial and merchant b a n k s ). The authorized dealers base their rates for other cur- rencies on current international market rates. On December 31, 1980 the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Reserve Bank in its dealings with authorized dealers were US$1.5921 and US$1.5795, respectively, per Z$ l. Forward exchange contracts are permitted only for trade transactions. There is no limit on the amount of such contracts, but these must be limited to periods of three to six months. The Reserve Bank is prepared to cover forward trans- actions and, at present, quotes fixed discount or p rem ium rates for major currencies. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank, under powers delegated to it by the Minister of Finance, in terms of the Exchange Control Act, Chap- ter 170, and the Exchange Control Regulations of 1977. Authorized dealers have been empowered to approve certain foreign exchange transactions in accordance with Exchange Control Instructions Issued to Author- ized Dealers (March 1, 1972, as amended) and Exchange Control Circulars issued periodically. Import and export controls are administered in accordance with the Control of Goods (Import and Export) (Agri- cu l ture) Regulations of 1965, as amended, the Control of Goods (Import and Export) (Commerce) Regula- tions of 1974, as amended, and the Control of Goods (Open General Import License) Notice of 1979. Prescription of Currency All payments by nonresidents to residents must be effected in denominated currencies,2 with the exception of payments otherwise specified or effected through 1 Zimbabwe became a member of the International Monetary Fund on September 29, 1980. 2 There are 17 denominated currencies which are f ree ly convertible through authorized dealers: Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, South A f r ican rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 466 nonresident accounts. There are no bilateral payments agreements. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may be opened with the approval of the exchange control authorities by persons who have never been residents of Zimbabwe. Non- resident accounts may be credited with foreign cur- rencies, with paymen ts from other nonresident accounts, or with payments by residents that would be eligible for t rans fer outside Zimbabwe. Nonresident accounts may be debited for payments to residents, for payments to other nonresident accounts, or for payments abroad. Former residents who are now outside of Zimbabwe may only ma in ta in emigrants' accounts in Zimbabwe. Cash assets held in Zimbabwe in the names of emigrants must be blocked in these accounts, and all payments to and f rom these accounts are strictly subject to various exchange restrictions. Imports and Import Payments With the exception of products covered by the Open General Import License (OGIL) all imports are subject to licensing requirements. (At present the OGIL covers very few items.) Import licenses are issued only against a certificate of foreign exchange allocation. Foreign exchange allocations are made by the M in is try of Finance for 3-month periods. For purposes of issuing licenses, products are classified into five categories in accordance w i th the degree of essentiality, and foreign exchange is allocated for a 3-month period by the M in is try of Commerce and Indus t ry for a product or a group of products on the basis of priority. Foreign exchange is allocated to ind iv idual commercial importers for single ta r i ff items, whereas foreign exchange allocated to manu fac tu re rs is for a group of ta r i ff items appro- priate to the industrial division concerned (w i th facilities for a limited degree of t rans fe rab i l i ty between alloca- t ion s ). Foreign exchange allocations are made on the basis of each importer's performance in the years 1964-65, but newcomers may also be considered. Assessment of regular allocations is made on the basis of their priority and availability of fore ign exchange, with import allocations being adjusted according to their use over the previous 12-month period. The normal validity of import licenses, which must be taken out w i th in the 3-month foreign exchange allo- cation period, is 6 months f rom the end of the month of issue; in certain circumstances, the validity period can be extended. Import licenses are issued on a global basis, and importers are free to choose the country of supply. Licenses are issued on an f.o.b. basis and do not, therefore, cover the invisibles element of the transactions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports of certain goods (mostly agricultural and processed food products) require a special permit issued by the Ministry of Agriculture. Certain agricultural products (coffee, maize, sorghum, soybeans, and whea t) may be imported only by the Grain Marketing and Cotton Marketing Boards or by others with the per- mission of the Boards. No quotas are in force, but seasonal restrictions are applied in the case of certain agricultural products. Authorized dealers may approve applications to effect payments for authorized imports, provided necessary documentation (including the details of import licenses or open general licenses) is submitted. Payments for imports into Zimbabwe from South Afr ica (or goods of South Afr ican origin) may be made in South Afr ican rand or in Zimbabwean currency to a local nonresident South African account. Payments for imports into Zim- babwe from countries other than South Afr ica may be made in Zimbabwean currency to a local nonresident account or in any foreign currency. The customs duty regime consists mainly of ad valorem duties, which range up to 40 per cent, and specific duties on a number of products. Generally, imports are subject to an additional import tax of 10 per cent which is the countervailing levy to that imposed at the same rate on goods sold domestically. Payments for Invisibles Foreign exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports and, within certain limits, for other purposes is provided by commercial banks under delegated authority. Applications for foreign exchange exceeding the limit established for a commercial bank are approved by the Reserve Bank, which deals with each case on its merits. The basic foreign exchange allowance for holiday travel in Africa is Z$50 a day up to a max imum of Z$600 a year and for travel outside A f r ica, Z$50 a day up to a maximum of Z$800 a year (children under ten are entitled to one half of these amoun ts ). The unused portion of allowances cannot be carried over to the following year. The basic foreign exchange allowance for business travel is Z$100 a day up to a maximum of Z$2,000 a trip, with an overall annual maximum of Z$4,000. For business travel to Europe and the United States, an additional allowance may be provided with the approval of the Reserve Bank. Foreign exchange is provided for education abroad beyond the secondary school level, within the following limits: Z$2,750 a year for education at universities other than those in the United States and the United Kingdom and Z$6,000 a year for education at universities in the United States and the United Kingdom. For medical treatment, foreign exchange is provided up to Z$20 a day for a maximum period of 30 days for the patient and any necessary accompanying companion. Remittances for donation are limited to Z$30 a year, Z$40 for subscrip- tions to religious and educational societies, and Z$20 ZIMBABWE for other societies; the l im it for an i n i t i al membersh ip fee is Z$50. Rem i t tances to close relatives permanently resident outside Zimbabwe, not exceeding Z$30 a mon th for each ind iv idual benef ic iary and Z$60 a month for each fam i ly unit, may be approved by authorized dealers. As regards remittances of dividends and profits, share- holders may free ly rem it all declared d iv idends for financial years ending on or after March 31, 1981 (or June 30, 1980 for those whose dividends were not blocked p rev ious ly ), provided that the total so declared by a company does not exceed 50 per cent of the company's after-tax profits. Dividends in excess of 50 per cent of the af ter- tax profits of companies in favor of nonresidents are blocked, but these limitations do not apply to ind iv idual shareholders who have never been resident in Zimbabwe.3 Interest accru ing f rom July 1, 1980 on all blocked funds of companies and corpora- tions domiciled in the designated countries is freely transferable, as is all interest accruing in favor of ind i- viduals resident in the former designated countries. Applications for em igrant status must be submitted to the Reserve Bank. Transferab le allowances at the time of em igra t ion are as fo l low s :4 (1) Single persons under the age of 40 years, Z$500; (2) single persons aged 40-59 years, Z$ 1,000; ( 3) fam i ly un i ts and single persons with dependents (under 60 years of age ), Z$ 1,000; (4) f am i ly un i ts (husband over 60 years of age) and single persons over 60, Z$7,000; (5) persons over 80 years of age, Z$l0,000; (6) widows (no age restriction), Z$10,000; and (7) handicapped or disabled persons, Z$ 10,000. A fu r ther release of capital is made as an annual allowance on the anniversary date of the emigrant's departure, as follows: persons over 65 years of age, Z$2,000 and persons over 70 years of age, Z$3,000. A traveler leaving Zimbabwe may take out not more than Z$20 in Zimbabwean currency. Nonresident trav- elers may take out foreign currency and travelers checks they imported less the amount sold to authorized dealers. Upon departure f rom Zimbabwe, nonresident travelers may reconvert unspent Zimbabwean currency into foreign currencies against presentation of exchange certificates. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses are required to export certain products which are not covered by the Open General Export License; 3 On Janua ry 5, 1981 the Reserve Bank s ta r ted to receive applications for the release of blocked dividends, interest, and other incomes (including 50 per cent of after-tax branch p ro f i ts) which had accrued during 1965-73 to companies (except insurance companies) domiciled in previously designated countries (Canada, the United K ingdom, and the United S ta tes). The funds would be released over a six-year period through the medium of special 4 per cent, tax - f ree, Govern- ment of Zimbabwe bonds; one sixth of such bonds would be redeem- able annually f rom the end of the first year. 4 From Janua ry 5, 1981 em ig ran ts who le ft Zimbabwe prior to January 1, 1980 and who had blocked assets in Zimbabwe not ex- ceeding Z$ 1,000 may apply for the immed ia te release of such fund s; those with blocked assets of more than Z$l,000 but less than Z$3,000 may also apply for the release of such funds through placement in the Government's six-year, 4 per cent, tax-free bonds. 467 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE these include (1) any ore, concentrate or other manu- factured product of chrome, copper, lithium, nickel, tin, or tungsten; (2) petroleum products; (3) ju te and hessian bags; (4) road or rail tankers for carrying liquids or semiliquids; (5) bitumen, asphalt, and tar; (6) wild animals and wild animal products; (7) certain wood products; (8) ammonium nitrate; and (9) imple- ments of war. In addition to security and /or social reasons, export licensing requirements are intended to ensure adequate domestic supply of essential products. Goods may not be exported without permission unless the customs authorities are satisfied that payment has been made in an approved manner or will be made within three months f rom the date of shipment or such longer period as may be permitted by the Reserve Bank. Payments for exports must be received in the following manner: (1) in a denominated currency; (2) in Zim- babwean currency from a nonresident account; and (3) in the case of Malawi, by checks drawn in Malawi kwacha. In addition, exports to some 50 countries are approved only upon advance payment of export pro- ceeds or if payment is covered by an irrevocable letter of credit issued or confirmed prior to export by a reputable overseas bank. Export receipts must be sold to authorized dealers. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles are required to be sold to authorized banks within a reasonable period of time. Residents performing professional services abroad are not permitted to retain any part of their fore ign exchange earnings, and such earnings are required to be sold to an authorized bank. Foreign currency and travelers checks may be imported without restrictions but must be sold or exchanged in Zimbabwe only through author- ized dealers. A traveler may bring in Zimbabwean cur- rency up to a maximum of Z$20. Capital Inward transfers of capital through normal bank ing channels are not restricted. Outward transfers of capital are controlled, but all foreign investments, irrespective of their source, which are undertaken through normal banking channels since September 1, 1979 may be considered for repatriation after two years, subject to the requirement that the amount to be repatriated will be reduced by any profits remitted in the interim. Where such authority is granted, the balance may be transferred only through the estab- lished medium of six-year, 4 per cent, tax-free bonds. The repatriation of capital invested before Septem- ber 1, 1979 is prohibited; however, shareholders are allowed within limits to apply to the Reserve Bank for the remittance of such capital upon the sale of shares, and if such application is approved, the capital is invested in six-year, 4 per cent, tax-free bonds. Income accruing in Zimbabwe to former residents who have emigrated is remittable up to a limit of 468 Z$25,000 for persons under the age of 60 and for persons over the age of 60, an additional amount of one third of income in excess of Z$25,000, within an overall limit of Z$50,000 a calendar year. The remit- tability of the Zimbabwean pension of a former resident is guaranteed under the Constitution; if pension remit- tances exceed the remittable limit, no incomes can be remitted. All other outward transfers of capital are subject to approval by the Reserve Bank, as are dealings in external securities. Gold The export of gold in unmanu fac tu red fo rm is con- trolled and licensed under the Control of Goods (Export of Minerals and Metals) Order, 1979. The adminis- tration of the Order is the responsibility of the Ministry of Mines and Energy Resources. No person may export any precious metal and certain other specified metals and minerals unless he holds an export license; no such licenses for gold are issued. These controls do not, however, apply to the Reserve Bank. The import of gold is controlled by the Gold Trade Act. The Act provides for certain requirements to be met where a person intends to import gold into Zimbabwe. No person, either as principal or agent, is entitled to deal in or possess gold unless (1) he is the holder of a license or permit; or (2) he is the holder or dis- tributor of a registered m in ing location f rom which gold is being produced; or (3) he is the employee or agent of any of the persons mentioned in (1) and (2) above, and is authorized by his employer or pr inc ipal to deal in or possess gold in the law ful possession of such employer or principal. A m in ing commissioner may issue to any person a permit authorizing him to acquire or to be in possession of or to dispose of any gold, provided the quan t i ty does not exceed one troy ounce. In all other cases, permission can only be issued by the Secretary for Mines and Energy Resources. Three types of licenses may be issued under the terms of the Gold Trade Ac t: a gold dealing license, a gold recovery works license, and a gold assaying license. Barclays Bank International Ltd. is the only authorized dealer in terms of the Act, and each holder or distributor of a registered mining location is required to lodge with this bank all gold acquired by him in the course of his operations by the tenth day of the month following that in which the gold was produced. Where a person intends to smelt any gold or any article containing gold, he must first obtain a license issued by a district commissioner under the terms of the Second Hand Goods Act authorizing him to be in possession of smelting equipment. Changes during 1980 January 23. Exports to 43 countries were made sub- ject to the following conditions: ( 1) payment must be made in a denominated currency; (2) payment must be received in advance of the export; or (3) payment must be covered by an irrevocable letter of credit issued or confirmed by a reputable European, North ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution American, or South African bank. (See also entry for April 29, below). March 7. The dual exchange rate system was dis- continued. The exchange rate of the Zimbabwe dollar against currencies other than the South A f r ican rand was appreciated by 3.9 per cent; exchange rates for all currencies began to be determined on the basis of a transactions-weighted basket. March 20. The South A f r ican rand was added to the list of currencies acceptable in payment for exports outside the Rand Monetary Area. Payments for exports to Zambia were permitted to be made from nonresident- Zambia accounts maintained in Zimbabwe and funded with denominated currencies. April 29. The announcement made on January 23 was extended to cover 50 countries, and eligible con- firming banks were defined more broadly as reputable overseas banks. July 25. The discriminatory exchange control prac- tices against residents of Canada, the United Kingdom, ZIMBABWE and the United States (designated countries) were removed or liberalized. September 19. It was announced that outward remit- tances of reasonable amounts of dividends in excess of the limit of 50 per cent on after-tax dividends of non- resident company shareholders of m in ing companies operating in Zimbabwe would be considered on merit. November 28. The Minister of Finance announced that, with effect from January 5, 1981 outward remit- tances of blocked earnings accrued du r ing 1965-73, as well as blocked earnings of persons who emigrated before January 1, 1980, would be substantially liberal- ized; in addition, with a view to promoting local partici- pation in foreign-owned companies, applications for remittance of disinvestment proceeds would be con- sidered w i th in limits, under an arrangement in which authorized funds would be transferab le through place- ment in six-year, 4 per cent government bonds. December 1. As a first step in a process scheduled for completion at the end of May 1981, the authorities began to phase out the 5 per cent export subsidy pay- ment. 469 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Summary Features of Exchange and (as at date of A. Acceptance of Article Status 1. Article VIII 2. Article XIV B. Exchange Arrangement 1 . Exchange rate maintained w i th in relatively narrow margins4 in terms of: (a) U.S. dollar (b) pound sterling (c) French franc (cf) South African rand or Spanish peseta (e) a cooperative exchange arrangement (under mutual intervention system) (/) a composite of currencies (g) a set of indicators 2. Exchange rate not maintained w i th in relatively narrow margins4 as in (<z)-(g) above, or otherwise determined (see country pages) 3. Separate exchange rates for some or all capital transactions and /or some or all invisibles 4. Import rate(s) different from export rate(s) 5. More than one rate for imports 6. More than one rate for exports C. Prescription of Currency D. Bilateral Payments Arrangements 1. w i th members 2. with nonmembers E. Payments Restrictions 1. Restrictions on payments for current transactions5 2. Restrictions on payments for capital transactions5-6 F. Cost-Related Import Restrictions 1. Import surcharges 2. Advance import deposits G. Surrender Requirement for Export Proceeds A f n a h g i s t n a I < A u s r t a i l a A u s i r t a B a h a m s a B h a r a i n ~ —~— B g n a l s e d a h , B a r o d a b s B e l g i u m d n a L e x u m u o b r g c I B o i l v i a B o t s w a n a •"3 5 ffl «j PQ D B u r d n u i C a m e r n o o C a d a n a C e p a V e r e d t C n e r t a l A i r f n a c R p e . •3 6 JH 6 C h i a n , P p o e l e s ' R p e . o f C o o l m b i a _ C o m o r o s - a J - For key and footnotes, see page 474. 470 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution— • • • • • • • • • • • • • — — — for key and footnotes 4^ ^J HA Trade Systerms in Member Countries1 Trade Systerms in Member Countries1 Costa Rica Cyprus Denmark Djibouti Dominica I Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Ethiopia Fiji Finland -France Gabon The Gambia I Germany, Fed. Rep. of Ghana Greece Grenada Guatemala Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Honduras Hong Kong Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Ivory Coast ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Summary Features of Exchange and (as at date of A. Acceptance of Article Status 1. Article VIII 2. Article XIV B. Exchange Arrangement 1 . Exchange rate maintained w i th in relatively narrow margins4 in terms of: (a) U.S. dollar (b) pound sterling (c) French franc (d) South African rand or Spanish peseta (e) a cooperative exchange arrangement (under mutual intervention system) (/) a composite of currencies (g) a set of indicators 2. Exchange rate not maintained w i th in relatively narrow margins4 as in (tf)-(g) above, or otherwise determined (see country pages) 3. Separate exchange rates for some or all capital transactions and /or some or all invisibles 4. Import rate(s) different from export rate(s) 5. More than one rate for imports 6. More than one rate for exports C. Prescription of Currency D. Bilateral Payments Arrangements 1. w i th members 2. with nonmembers E. Payments Restrictions 1. Restrictions on payments for current transactions5 2. Restrictions on payments for capital transactions5-6 F. Cost-Related Import Restrictions 1. Import surcharges 2. Advance import deposits G. Surrender Requirement for Export Proceeds a J m a i a c , - 0 - 1 45 - * - c Io D . - I D - . I _ K u w a t i - _ L o a P e p o e l s ' D e m . R p e . _ L n o n a b e - , L s e o t o h _ 'Sjfi - . L i n a y b A r b a a J m h a i r i a y 9 M a c s a g a d a r M a l a w i D - . M a l y a s i a - 0 M a l d i s e v - _ *«» 1 - M u a t i r n a i a M u a i t i r u s n 0 8 8 - 9 M o r o c c o i 9 N e t e h l r d n a s . N e t e h l r d n a s A n l l i t s e ** - . N e w Z a e l d n a - N i a c r a u g a « - . i_i g _ , _ - - t _ For key and footnotes, see page 474. 472 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • — • — • • • • — — • II ** 75 *U II I Trade Systems in Member Countries1 I Q I§• i I a 31 § P O.f 0 3 1 § ^u> I Nigeria i Norway I Oman Pakistan Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Portugal Qatar Romania Rwanda St. Lucia I St. Vincent and Grenadines3 Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Swaziland Sweden Syrian Arab Rep. Tanzania Thailand Togo Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Summary Features of Exchange and Trade Systems in Member Countries1 (concluded] (as at date of country pages)2 2 «i & S I * 1 | 8 t«. . ^ ^ I . 1 i ! " £ 1 . I 1 1 1 1 ^ 1 5 1 1 1 1 ^ 11 ^ s s s ^ i l ^ i l J ^ a ll .o ^ 3 e -2 & Key and Footnotes • indicates t h at practice exists. — indicates th at practice does not exist. D indicates that the composite is the SDR. 1 The list includes two nonme tro- politan terr i tor ies (Hong Kong and the Ne the r lands An t i l le s) for wh ich the respective members have ac- cepted the Fund 's Articles of Agree- men t. Exchange practices indicated in ind iv idual countries do not necessarily app ly to all external transactions. 2 December 31, 1980, unless otherwise indicated. 3 Coun t ry has not notified the Fund on the acceptance of either Article VIII or Article XIV. 4 Margins of app rox ima te ly 2.25 per cent on either side of parity. It should be noted that existence.of a separate rate does not necessarily imply a mu l t ip le currency practice under Fund jurisdiction. 8 Restrictions (i.e., official action directly a f fec t ing the ava i lab i l i ty or cost of exchange, or invo lv ing undue delay) on paymen ts to member countries, o ther than restrictions imppsed for security reasons under Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), adopted August 14, 1952. 6 Resident-owned fund s. A. Acceptance of Article Status 1. Article VIII 2. Article XIV B. Exchange Arrangement 1. Exchange ra te ma in ta ined w i t h in relatively na r row marg ins4 in terms of: (a) U.S. dollar (b) pound sterling (c) French f ranc (d) South African rand or Spanish peseta O) a cooperative exchange arrangement (under mu tual in terven t ion system) (/) a composite of currencies (g) a set of indicators 2. Exchange rate not maintained w i th in relatively narrow margins4 as in (tf)-(g) above, or otherwise determined (see coun try pages) 3. Separate exchange rates for some or all capital transactions and /or some or all invisibles 4. Import rate(s) d ifferent from export rate(s) 5. More than one rate for imports 6. More than one rate for exports C. Prescription of Currency D. Bilateral Payments Arrangements 1. w i th members 2. w i th nonmembers E. Payments Restrictions 1. Restrictions on paymen ts for current transactions5 2. Restrictions on payments for capital transactions5-6 F. Cost-Related Import Restrictions 1. Impo rt surcharges 2. Advance impo rt deposits G. Surrender Requ i rement for Export Proceeds 474 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution List of Abbreviations1" African, Caribbean, and Pacific State signatories of the Lom& Convention with the EC Asian Clearing Union Asian Monetary Unit Association of South East Asian Nations Central Bank of West African States (Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest) Bank of Central African States (Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale) Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union Central American Common Market Caribbean Common Market Customs Cooperation Council Nomenclature Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries Council for Mutual Economic Assistance European Community United Nations, Economic Commission for Africa East Caribbean Currency Authority East Caribbean Common Market Economic Community of West African States (CEDEAO) European Coal and Steel Community European Currency Unit European Free Trade Association European Monetary Cooperation Fund (FECOM) European Monetary Fund European Monetary System European Unit of Account European Atomic Energy Community General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade Generalized System of Preferences International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank) International Development Association International Finance Corporation International Monetary Fund Latin American Free Trade Association Latin American Integration Association (ALADI) London interbank offered rate Multifiber Arrangement Most favored nation Multilateral Trade Negotiations Organization of African Unity Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development Organization for European Economic Cooperation Special drawing right South Pacific Regional Trade and Cooperation Agreement Central African Customs and Economic Unibn (Union Douaniere et Economique de PAfrique Centrale) United Nations West African Economic Community (CEAO) ACP ACU AMU ASEAN BCEAO BEAC BLEU CACM CARICOM CCCN CEPGL CMEA EC ECA ECCA ECCM ECOWAS ECSC ECU EFTA EMCF EMF EMS EUA EURATOM GATT GSP IBRD IDA IFC IMF LAFTA LAIA LlBOR MFA MFN MTN OAU OECD OEEC SDR SPARTECA UDEAC UN WAEC "This list does not include abbreviations of purely national institutions mentioned in the country pages. 475 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 